
    ----CITATION----
        Berlin, E. A. (Eliza Annie). Earth Angels and Hidden Oppression, or, The Life of Little Annie .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5812
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               EARTH ANGELS AND HIDDEN OPPRESSION; 
               OR THE LIFE OF LITTLE ANNIE. 
             
            BY E. A. BERLIN.
             
            
               COLUMBUS: 
               PRINTED BY NEVINS & MYERS.
             
            1868. 
             
            Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, BY E. A. BERLIN, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio. 
          
          
             
            INTRODUCTION. 
            I PRESENT this little volume to the public, not that I expect to please all or even interest all, but if I benefit a few I shall feel amply repaid for the toil I have endured in preparing it for the press. 
            Deprived of the blessing of an education, and depending on the benevolence of kind friends for a home, it cannot be expected that I would make any pretensions to a Mrs. Hemans, a Frances Gage or a Hannah More; nor have I aimed at any thing appertaining to eminence. I hope that the numerous errors in this little narrative I will be criticised sympathetically, and the truthfulness and simplicity with which I have endeavored to write, will in a measure conceal the defects therein. No doubt objections will arise I to my manner of writing; but, though having assumed an air of fiction, I have strictly adhered to the truth in every thing, except part of the names of persons referred to, which are fictitiously tiously used, from the fact that some might object to their true names being published in this manner, and the mention of which was unavoidable in writing the life of one with whom she had associated, and for whom she could not but entertain feelings of the highest regard. 
            To Mr. and Mrs. C--, of Ashland County, I am indebted for the privileges of a home whilst writing this little history, and my sincere prayer is that they may never know want, or feel sorrow's deep pangs. God will reward them for their untiring kindness and patience during my stay with them. 
            I would say to those into whose hands these pages may fall, don't consider me a man-hater. Oh! no; why should I be? Our blessed Redeemer took upon him the form of man, and came and suffered death to save a fallen world. And I have been treated with true Christian sympathy by many of them. 
            What I have said in regard to the hidden manner weak, confiding women are oppressed by those who claim to be the stronger vessel, I have wrote in order to open the eyes of those blinded wretches that disgrace the name of man, by willfully, as it were, crushing the life's blood out of those that intrust their all in their care. 
            No, dear reader, I am no man-hater; there is nothing so heaven-like as to dwell in a family where presides a loving husband and indulgent father. Parents, teach your sons and daughters to treat each other with the utmost kindness; the seed of cruelty is often sown whilst under the parental roof. 
            Yes, thanks to the giver of all our blessings, I have had the pleasure of spending months in families where the sunshine of love and kindness rested upon them. 
            In order to give the reader a clear apprehension of all that I am about to relate, it will be necessary for me to detail with some minuteness the previous history of the grandparents of Annie. And I would ask my Christian readers to follow the example of her grandmother, especially those of you that have unconverted companions; remember, they will watch every step you make, and, as a professing Christian, a great responsibility rests upon you; through a godly example you may win the companion of your choice, to love their God, or, by living beneath your privilege, sink them so deep in unbelief that they will be beyond redemption. 
            And, father, as you go with me through the wandering scenes of one whose life began in sorrow and continued one vast scene of conflict, and contemplate the cause of it all, if you have ever been in the habit of frequenting the drinking and gambling shops, from that moment, for your family and soul's sake, forever abandon them. Oh! dear reader, I feel confident, could you in reality lift the veil and view my life, past and present, as it really was and still is, I would receive the deepest sympathy of all. 
            As it is, may the errors in writing be lost midst feelings of the truest pity, is the wish of 
            
               E.A.B.
             
          
       
      
         
            Earth angels and hidden oppression, or, The life of little Annie 
             
            EARTH ANGELS AND HIDDEN OPPRESSION; 
            OR THE LIFE OF LITTLE ANNIE. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               IT was a lovely day in May, in the year--, that Robert Milony and his fair young wife, of nineteen summers, stood on the banks of the great blue sea, surrounded by weeping friends, waiting for the bounding ship to spread her sails and bear them to that distant land which was then struggling with a tyrannical power, and had declared itself a free and independent nation! True, Annie loved her home, and felt sad to think that she was about to bid farewell to Erin's lovely shore-for she was one among the few of Erin's daughters who had all her life been surrounded by every comfort. Yes; I may say luxury. Although so young, she had graduated in Dublin-a privilege which few of the sons and daughters of down-trodden Ireland are permitted to enjoy. But, notwithstanding all these inducements ments, she felt it her duty to make the sacrifice for the sake of her husband and family. There she stood, pressing to her breast a little daughter of six months. At her side stood a sparkling, black-eyed boy holding by her dress and looking up into her face, as much as to say, "Mamma, why don't you hurry!" At last Robert informed her that all was ready. Then came the trying moment. But Annie's hope in Christ was strong (as she had in the very morning of her life dedicated herself to him), and the thought that she was going with her dear little ones to a land where they could serve God in accordance with the dictates of their own conscience, overcame every other sorrow. 
               Thus, amid hopes and fears, she bid a long and last adieu to dearly-beloved friends in the land of her childhood. But the severest trial of all was, when her venerable mother came forward to claim the parting kiss; and, as she kissed her darling boy and breathed the parting blessing on little Mary, her own namesake, which made her doubly dear, Annie almost shrank from the idea of parting with her. But she turned to Robert and saw that he too was suffering deep mental agony, for he felt that he in a measure had been the cause of this deep sorrow. Yet he knew that what he had done was all meant for the best, and he would repay her by the honest offerings of a noble heart, devoting his life, his fortune, his all for the promotion of her happiness, and withholding nothing that love and affection has power to bestow. 
               But he felt himself unable to supply the vacancy ever in her heart, caused by her separation from her dear mother and friend. He did not think, as so many legal lords do, that you are mine, and I have a right to take you just where I see best; and, though I have torn you away from the caresses of your fond mother, you must patiently submit to my will. Oh, no! he had promised to be her protector over the stormy sea of life, and not a tyrannical master. His sympathy was extended to those who were left behind, yet to live in a land where he could enjoy true liberty was far more valuable than the association of friends in a land of bondage. He, too, had fond parents, but being absent from home greater part of the time did not feel the parting pang so keenly. 
               But we must not pass by the heart-stricken father who stood silently gazing on until little Mary was handed back to her mother, then, with trembling steps and tearful eyes he came forward, and, clasping his daughter's hands in his, he said: "Farewell! May God guard thee to thy new and-I hope-happy home. Ever cherish in thy memory the blissful land where parting is known no more, and where this poor tottering form of mine will soon be safely resting. Grant us the promise that you will live in obedience to God, and meet us where we can praise him forever. Unless we meet in heaven we will never more meet." Saying this, he turned slowly and sadly away, waving a sad farewell. Next came her little brothers and sisters, and silently gave the parting kiss; their hearts were too full for utterance. 
               Soon we see Annie, aboard the little craft that was bearing them away from their childhood's home. And as she stood there gazing in sorrow back to the loving ones who were watching her from the shore, she waived her lily-white hand and gazed until all was lost in the dim distance, then went to her berth to weep and pray. All went promisingly on as a summer dream; every one seemed happy, but there was little company there for Annie, as there were few, if any, who feared the Lord; but Annie read in her little Bible (her mother's parting token), and claimed the precious promises there. That was indeed a companion for her on the billowy waters, where there was none other to cheer her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               ANY one who is acquainted with the disposition of the old country people knows that they are naturally mirthful, when a number of them are assembled together. So it was with this happy crew. They spent their leisure moments in dancing and other worldly amusements, and forgot amid their pleasure, that a sure sign of a storm is too clear a sky, and passed the time thoughtlessly. 
               The little black-eyed boy, as they called him, had just arrived at the age to make him interesting to those who met with him. He was naturally intelligent, and, indeed, seemed to possess an unusual amount of understanding for his age. Always prattling, he attracted the attention of all; and no object around him escaped the scrutinizing glance of his eye. His mother was often fearful that he would be exposed to danger, for frequently she did not know whither his idle curiosity had led him. 
               The people of the old country are of the opinion that if a child is unusually active and intelligent, it is a sure omen that its stay on earth will be a short one. This prediction, as many others, does not always prove true, but in this case it did not fail. One morning Annie observed that her little boy had a feverish brow, his pulse beat quick and his eye was less bright than usual. It was not long until the attention of all was arrested, and finally the physician was summoned. He soon discovered symptoms of that odious disease, the small-pox, which every one so much fears. Oh, how frail is human love!-those who sported with him when all went well, forsook him when he most needed their sympathies. But his kind parents carefully watched over him as he lay suffering, as they thought, from a disease both contagious and despised, but on the third day it proved to be the measles; yet he was dangerously ill; his head seemed to suffer most. His eye was wild and his thoughts wandered, and he would frequently imagine himself conversing with his grand parents at his old home. How anxiously did his sorrowing mother await some token of returning health, and how tenaciously did she cling to the least ray of hope. She went to the throne of grace, and there implored God to spare the darling boy, or if not his will to spare him, that he would give her grace to submit to the trial. But his father did not have a Savior's love to support him in this deep affliction, (for he as yet knew nothing of the pleasures of a christian life,) and was almost distracted as he saw his darling boy slowly sinking to rest. But deeper troubles were in store for them. The fifth day of his illness, they observed far out on the western horizon the appearance of an approaching storm, which gradually drew nearer until they could distinctly hear the rolling thunder. The sky began to lower, and they already anticipated a watery grave. They then realized the awful situation of a ship in a storm. The poor mother sat holding with one hand her dying boy, with the other she clung to her berth, to keep from being tossed as the ship rocked to and fro on the surging sea. 
               Even then her comforter was near, and consoled her as her child breathed its life out amid all the storm and raging of the elements, for long before the storm was over that happy spirit had taken its flight to the God who gave it. 
               At last the morning dawned. The storm had ceased, the sky was serene, and every object seemed settled in repose. All seemed hushed as in the presence of death. As the lovely child lay sweetly sleeping, pale and cold before its heartbroken father, who stood gazing on all that remained of his darling boy, thoughts of deepest melancholy pervaded his soul, and he exclaimed aloud, "Oh, how can I consign my noble boy to a watery grave, and behold the fish of the sea devour his little form!" But the mother looked not upon him so. Oh, no! she looked far up in the regions of light whither she knew the spirit had fled to share the endless joys of those who dwell in the presence of God; and as she viewed him there, he seemed to beckon them to come. 
               She then turned to little Mary, who lay slumbering beside her dead brother, and imprinting a kiss on her fair brow, vowed that, should it be her heavenly father's will to spare her babe, she would, by his aid, bring it up in the fear of the Lord. But could she for one moment have penetrated the dark vale of that babe's future life, she would gladly have seen it in death's embrace beside the cold form of its brother. She could not know the future, therefore she prayed for its safety, knowing that the All-Wise being orders all things for our good. 
               Could we have our future lives spread out in one grand scenery before us, we would shrink and doubt our ability to endure the trials; but, thanks to the wisdom of an infinite being, our trials are dealt out singly to us, and no more given us than we can bear at one time, making the burthen lighter than if viewed in one vast heap before us. 
               Annie, as a true mother, with a heart full of living hope, devoted her time and attention to her little daughter's safety, while the crew was busily engaged in preparing for the last token of respect they could bestow upon her poor boy. The day was lovely, and the unruffled waters presented a scene most sublime. The sea bird flapped its unwearied wing in gladness, and every thing seemed to be exulting in the victory over the war of the elements, and praising God for thus interfering when all was commotion and storm. But though all was joyful without, a solemn stillness reigned within that little ship. Orders were given in a subdued voice, and all on board were filled with awe in the presence of that unwelcome visitor-death-which came as a second warning to the mirthful crew, that though the sea is calmed, they are not yet certain of ever reaching the desired port; for how apt we are to pass by the warning voice that is borne on the wings of the raging tempest, and forget the solemn vows we made while the wrath of God was impending over us. 
               Thus it was with the thoughtless crew of that ship. But as they gazed on that form cold and still before them, they were again reminded that God was yet near, and made known his divine authority in snatching from their midst the sweet bud of promise that was the life and joy of all on board. At last all was prepared. The rope was placed around the coffin, and gently they lowered it in the deep, deep sea. A solemn stillness prevailed until broken by a voice ascending from a hoary-headed father in Israel, bearing to the throne of mercy a humble petition in behalf of the heart-stricken parents. I shall not attempt to describe the agony of mind this sorrowing. father was subject to, without one cheering ray of hope from heaven to lighten the burthen of this affliction. Not so with the mother. Though she mourned the loss of her boy, she hoped one day to meet him never more to part again. She earnestly plead with Robert to be more calm, and resigned to the will of God, and endeavor with her to meet their son in the abode of bliss. 
               Then taking up her little Bible, said "I will read some of the precious promises God has given us in his holy word." She read, while quite a number gathered around her to hear the sacred truths, and finally came the reverend Father, who was present during the funeral ceremonies of their boy. Ere long they were on their knees in, the attitude of prayer, and arose not until three souls were recorded in the Lamb's Book of Lives, verifying the assertion that all things worketh for our good if we but trust in him who wounds to heal. Yet the heart of the father was not subdued; he still clung to the things of this world. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               FOUR long weeks they smoothly glided on. Little Mary was still gaining strength, and her fond parents were becoming more attached to her. 
               Nothing more worthy of note occurred until they landed in Philadelphia, where they took up a temporary residence, and remained there four weeks. One day Robert said, "This will not do, we must seek a new home where we can increase our little wealth." They then left Philadelphia, and traveled to the rich valley of the Canewago, and purchased a tract of land on which they reared their forest cabin, in which they spent many happy days-yes, I may say years. Little Mary reigned queen of this happy home, wiling away the lonely hours by her innocent prattle and merry laugh. 
               It is not strange that she became the idol of her father, while her mother watched her advancing years with pride, and hope filled her heart as she scanned in imagination the future prosperity of her fair daughter. 
               Thus in happiness they lived. Robert, true to his promise, left nothing undone that a kind husband and an indulgent father could do to make their home a pleasant one, and nothing was wanting to complete Annie's happiness in her new home. But sometimes mournful thoughts would intrude upon her peace, as her thoughts recalled the parting scene with her parent, whom she never more should meet in this world; yet many cheering letters came and went, Annie describing her new home in glowing colors, presenting the brightest side of the scenery to her dear parents, sending a thrill of gladness through their hearts, as she reminded them that though separated far from them, her thoughts wandered back over the waters and lingered near her well remembered home. Ah! yes, this is a comfort much indulged in by all who are permitted to enjoy it. When we are separated far from those we love, how thankful we should be to have such a medium to convey our thoughts, and how anxiously we await the welcome mail, bearing the long expected missive, or how disappointed we are when, to our eager inquiries we are answered, Nothing here!
                
               Annie had promised never to neglect writing to her parents, and well did she keep that promise, cheering her lonely parents. A true woman will be a ray of light to her husband and family, and well may she be termed, an earth angel, silently going on her humble mission, diffusing light and happiness wherever her duty leads her. 
               But has the husband no part to act in the great drama of life? I answer yes; he, too, should take an active part, and go hand in hand with her he promised to love and protect, not only in worldly affairs, but in the christian duties of life required at their hands-not only to encourage, but to assist each other in the performance of those duties. 
               When Sabbath morning came, Robert and Annie never failed to attend public worship. Robert not only encouraged Annie, but provided a convenient way of going; and whenever the weather and her health would permit, they would repair to the house of God. Thus was their lives made pleasant as the unruffled waters of a calm sea, where all seems to harmonize with nature and nature's first law-order. The inhabitants of the 
                     Canewago
                     Conewago
                   valley were a sociable class of people, and chiefly emigrants from that section of the old country from which Robert and Annie came; and as friends of the same country, would frequently visit each other, and converse about their homes on the beautiful island far over the great waters, as such here they seemed to Annie like kindred spirits. Those visits were not, as is so frequently the case now, succeeded by some unbecoming remarks concerning those they were visiting, the manner in which they managed their household affairs, or the quality of the victuals served up to them. Oh, no! they were content if nothing were given but an hour of sweet communion with friends, and that was food and drink for the mind. 
               Often they would sit down to a repast of Johnny cake, (as they called it,) a few slices of bacon, and a cup of cold water, and eat with as much relish as our more aristocratic friends now-a-days do at a table sumptuously decorated with the choicest delicacies. 
               The majority of the settlers there were poor, gathering what little they had by scant living after they crossed the sea. So anxious were they to fly from the hand of oppression, that all was spent to carry them beyond its limits, to the land of promise, as they termed it. 
               Annie knew nothing of the privations they endured, either in her father's house or in her own happy home; yet she possessed a heart ever open to the wants and sufferings of those around her. Thus she attracted numerous kind friends to her. It was not merely her contributions for their physical wants which made her so beloved, but the cheering word and pleasant smile with which she comforted them in their affliction, and lightened their burthens. 
               In the course of two years little Mary was delighted by the birth of a little sister. She was almost in extacies, and improved every opportunity to exhibit the wonderful stranger. But the father was not so well pleased. He preferred to have a little wood-chopper,-and no doubt wood-choppers were very much needed then to prepare the huge logs for the fire-place, for those days they were not accustomed to heat their rooms by stoves, as now; and the greater part of their land was covered with wood, to be cleared and made use of. But Robert was not alone in that wish, for how many are of the opinion that a man can never accumulate wealth when obliged to support a large family of girls. Ah, ignorant and money-loving fathers! do you not consider the influence of a gentle, innocent daughter upon the unrefined manners of man? for in my opinion the mind of man is elevated by the refining influence of females. Robert, though a kind and indulgent husband, was not entirely free from the idea too many of the male sex have fallen into, that the chief object of man should be the promotion of their own families' happiness, and beyond that there was no scope for benevolence. He entertained the idea that his duty consisted in accumulating wealth, and disposing of it for the education of his family, and their comfort, and not in distributing his little comforts beyond his own to those less fortunate than him. 
               How many do we see, even in the present day, professing to be followers of Christ, passing by the poor and afflicted ones of the earth with an eye of disdain, forgetting that all they enjoy they are indebted for to a higher power, and all their little wealth is only bestowed upon them for a term. 
               True, they come with their offerings to the altar of mercy, offering thanks to God for his kindness to them, at the same time imagining that it was their own good works which has won the favor of the Divine Being. Ah, yes! they can easily form a prayer, and at the same time be very careful that it will not cost them much, and should there chance to be around them an unfortunate individual desiring a helping hand, they will soon say let them help themselves by their own industry, as I have done, proving at once that their conduct differs widely from their prayers. But methinks, I hear one say, "they admit, by thanking him for his many mercies, that it is through his benevolence that they possess more of this world's goods than others do, yet at the same time clamour about others whom they think might be more prosperous if they were more industrious, and would serve the Lord. But let them remember that when our Savior was on the earth, he said, "The poor ye always have with you." Why are they with us? That we may comfort them, and share our pleasure with them,-not as many offer up apparently heart-felt prayers for tie Lord to comfort the widow and the orphan; not thinking that they are provided with the means; and placed here to do the work they implore the Lord to do. I could never understand his Holy Word thus. It teaches in terms discernible to all, that we are not to pray for God to relieve their sufferings, but to give us willing minds and understanding hearts to make a proper use of what he has so bountifully bestowed upon us." 
               "Well," says one, "I support the Gospel." This is right. But what is supporting the Gospel? Is it to pay your minister? That is part, but not all. We are co-workers in the vineyard, and unless we attend to all, our little efforts are vain. Faith, without works, is dead. It is not alone in giving alms that this work consists; but by our influence we may throw a heavenly light around their souls, and give the disheartened courage to go forward with their labors, both for this world and that which is to come. 
               To meet the approbation of our Father, we are to be watchful workers in his vineyard, that we may know in what manner we may be most useful to those less prosperous, intrusted to our care. We should hold up before them, in all its brilliancy, the reward offered them for a faithful discharge of their duty, and encourage them to make the start; then urge them to press on, and, if need be, aid them by giving them of our worldly store. A true Christian will seek such opportunities. He will visit the wretched hovel of the poor and there meet their wants, instead of passing them by unnoticed, should they chance to be thrown in his way, fearing that he would be compelled to contribute something to their support. But I do not wish to be understood that the poor are to be exempt from struggling for their welfare, sitting down without even making an attempt to earn a livelihood by their own exertions, but depending entirely upon the benevolence of others. Oh! no; I think they should exercise their own strength. God designs that they should; and he has so endowed them with reasoning faculties that it is possible for them to do so, in a measure. All do not possess an equal amount of health and strength, nor have all been blessed with a certain degree of wisdom; or, in other words, they do not possess that persevering spirit to penetrate the dark shades of life for their own welfare. 
               Here, then, is another field open for the labor of those ministering angels to whom is imparted an abundant supply of intelligence. May such instruct the ignorant, and urge them to press on in the great battle of life; showing them in what manner they can become great, if not in the eyes of the world, great in the sight of God. By so doing they will make themselves happy. 
               The Lord loves the liberal giver; but how many do we meet in the world who wish to obtain the liberal giver's reward, yet make no effort to merit it, but hiddenly oppress those to whom their Lord and Master has expressly commanded them to lend a helping hand. 
               Robert Milony did not profess to know the enlightening influence of a Saviour's love, and, therefore, would sometimes be half inclined to complain of his better half on account of her liberality, and would frequently wish that their situation was elsewhere than in the midst of so many poor people, as Annie was constantly contributing to their wants, and he feared they would never in this way accumulate much wealth. Annie would look up to him, her mellow black eyes beaming with love, and say: "Robert, do you think we would be happy if removed from those troubles and drawbacks, as you seem to think them? We would then have nothing to remind us of how entirely dependent we are upon the giver of all the good we enjoy; we would then have no opportunity of doing, and for my part I should not then be as happy as now." "But," replied Robert, "charity commences at home." "Oh, Robert!" said she, "do you not see that we can extend our charity beyond the limits of our home, and yet suffer none for the little we bestow on others who are destitute of life's comforts around us? and if we would embalm our memory in the hearts of future posterity, and meet the approbation of a just God, we must act in accordance with the laws of justice and mercy. 'Cast thy bread upon the waters that you may gather it many days hence,' says God's word; and if our works are good in this world, how rich will be the reward in the bright world above!" But Robert, like a great many others, entertained the idea that all possessed the same opportunity of prospering in worldly matters as he did, as every thing he undertook prospered, therefore he concluded that it was their own mismanagement which caused their poverty. Yet he did not attempt to control her in this respect, for he thought her so good in all her actions that he never denied her any thing she wished for. Thus time ran on, and, amid love and prosperity, they were happy. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE family of Robert and Annie by this time consisted of four charming little girls and one black-eyed boy, the youngest, and the father's idol, bearing every feature of the dear one they left in the deep sea. Had his grandparents then beheld him when at the same age, they would almost have imagined themselves borne away by some delusion as they thought of the little pet they parted with, who had died on the sea, so near were they in every appearance. Robert would frequently remark, as he heard Frank's lively voice, "How much he reminds me of our little Alek." "Yes!" Annie would say, "I do think we have great reason to thank God for his goodness to us. He has taken one away to the bright realms above, where he will never know sorrow or pain; he has bestowed another, which so nearly resembles him; and, in taking the one, he has only drawn our affections to that bright abode whence our darling has gone. How earnestly should we strive to meet him there." She then wept bitterly, for she felt that he whom she had chosen as her companion through life, was alone striving to lay up treasures upon the earth, forgetting that which was of more value. She had prayed for him, and in every way endeavored, by her conduct, to show him that she, was serving God. 
               Looking around on her little family, in the agony of her heart, she told him that unless they pursued a different course, their children would condemn them when they would be parted never to meet again. This affected him, and from that moment he resolved to be a Christian, and, as Christian parents, they would endeavor to bring up their little charge in the fear of the Lord. Then, for the first time, they erected a family altar in their own home. Though Annie, in her father's house, was never permitted to retire at night until the family was called in, a chapter read in the old family Bible, and a prayer offered up for their protection during their midnight slumbers, she had never yet knelt publicly to hold worship, but retired with her children while they were small to their own rooms, and prayed that they might grow up in the fear of the true and the living God, a blessing to society and a comfort to their parents. There, alone, she plead with God to aid her to live in such a manner as to convince her husband that there was a reality in divine grace, and that he would be constrained ed to walk with her in the path of light. He would provide a way for her to go to the house of God, yet did not think it really necessary; he would say, a woman needed recreation, and he took her there merely to satisfy her. His belief was that God is Love, and took all to rest. His only care was for the things of this world; for the world to come God would provide. 
               Robert's parents were wealthy and possessed all of this world's comforts, yet had no thoughts beyond. They looked upon it as a land of rest from care and sorrow, but never stopped to think of the Author of the Universe. Nor did they think how awful would be their condition if ushered into the presence of an offended God. Thus, they brought up their children morally, educated them, and taught them to be loving and kind. When Robert sued for the hand of Annie Morton, her father hesitated. He feared the result which might arise, from giving his child into the hands of one who had no thought beyond the grave; and taking her alone (ere he gave a decided reply), seriously and solemnly asked her if she had taken this all-important step into due consideration. 
               She replied: "Yes, I have; but my trust is in God, and Robert is of a kind disposition, originating from a respectable family, and if not religious gious, they dwell within the pales of moral refinement. If I follow my Redeemer and set before him a good religious example, no doubt he will be persuaded to go with me." 
               Annie's faith was strong; and though she was compelled for years, as it were, to walk alone, she never became weary in well-doing, but was cheerful and kind to all around her. At last, to her joy, she was permitted to behold the result of her prayers. 
               The Sabbath succeeding the evening of their conversation, they went to the house of worship with feelings different from those they had hitherto been accustomed to go with. Robert was that day to unite with the church which his affectionate wife had long since chosen as her home. 
               It was communion day, and oh, with what heart-felt gratitude did Annie partake of the blessed emblems of a crucified Saviour when she knew that her husband would share this privilege. Their nearest place of worship was a Presbyterian church ten miles distant from their home. This was the church of Annie's choice, and the denomination to which her parents belonged. Now it was doubly dear, since her husband shared her joy. Robert had frequently before thought it rather useless to travel such a distance to church, but he loved his companion, and it was his chief aim to make her happy-which should be the aim of every one who takes upon him the marriage vow. 
               Where true love reigns, there will be found peace and happiness; but as I, pass through the world I frequently meet with a singular quality of affection, which teaches every one to make himself happy, not considering that there are those around them who have a claim upon their attention. This error, I believe, exists more frequently among the male sex. Husbands will prepare themselves when Sabbath morning arrives, start off to hear the word of God explained to them, without once thinking that there are other souls to be saved that are in their care. Their lonely companion, perhaps, or sweet children left in the hands of God to save if he chooses, but they must not be troubled. There may be another cause,-they, perhaps, are not provided with suitable clothes to attend church, or if the mother, perhaps not the children, and she can not find it in her heart to go to hear the word of God while the little charge intrusted to her care is permitted to run at large, without suitable clothing to take them where they could heal God's word. You say "she has the Bible!" Have you not the Bible? and is this the way to train up children according to the holy lessons therein taught? or can you expect your companion to serve God under such circumstances? You, the stronger vessel, must be borne up by the church, while she alone must work her way to heaven, whom you have vowed before God and man to support and comfort. All this must be borne without a murmur, and if she fails to greet him at any time with a smile, he will imagine himself one of the most injured on the earth; and I have even known females who would sympathize with men who are able to wear a pleasant smile while their companions were unable to conceal the sorrow which weighed them down. 
               But here let us pause and lift the curtain. That face now wreathed in smiles, perhaps one moment before was dark and gloomy, uttering words which pierced her sensitive heart, and left the pangs visible in her face, and which could not in a moment be erased from her memory. Often have I been eye-witness to just such scenes. Do you ask how I came to know this? The story is soon told. I have always been a close observer, and as I labor in different families, where I remain for weeks, or perhaps months, in the same family. On first going there I concluded that I had found one of the few husbands who might be termed an earth angel; but ere I left the place I became aware of facts which, no doubt they would rather prefer to have remain in secret. 
               As I contemplate these things, melancholy thoughts will arise. Why is this hidden oppression? Why must poor, weak woman endure all this? Echo answers "why?" But ah! a ray of light from heaven beams on us as we claim the precious promise, "Blessed are they that weep, for they shall be comforted," confirming the opinion that they who willfully break the hearts of those confiding ones who have intrusted their all to them, will never be permitted to enter the new Jerusalem, for which so many pretend to be striving so earnestly, but I very much fear that they will one day be made known of their error-if not in this world, in that which is to come,-and prayers offered up by such are but a mockery to God. 
               But, kind reader, do not imagine that I see no fault in women! Certainly I do. No one is entirely free from faults; but a female may scold, storm or plead, and yet have but, very little influence over the stern will of the male sex. Besides, her evil actions are so frequently criticised, and so much written about, that I deem it unnecessary to add many comments upon her character. "But," says one, "what an unhappy life a husband must lead when obliged always to submit to his wife." Allow me to ask what harm is produced when the wife is in the right and the husband submits? Had we more compliance on both sides, there would be more real happiness. They would become more agreeable to each other, and perhaps accumulate wealth faster; but where no one is willing to yield, or where the husband thinks the compliance should all be in his favor, a house can never prosper, and ten chances to one will strife and discord reign supreme. I would say to those seeking companions, never think yourself safe in choosing a son or daughter merely because their parents are professing christianity, for people of pure principles alone are the ones to be chosen, though a true christian will possess those principles. Sometimes parents professing to follow Christ, are very far distant from the straight and narrow path laid out for the sincere christian. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               WHEN Annie witnessed her husband enjoying the blessed privilege of communing with God's people, she felt that her cup of happiness was full. Their children were growing up cheerful and happy-for a happy home makes a happy family; and where children obey they can not but prosper. Robert supplied the place of their little cabin by a two-story frame building, in which they could live more comfortably. Their children were regularly sent to school, for Robert was one of the few in those days who believed that the mind must be well cultivated in order to be useful in the world. He did not imagine, as a great many do, that if their pockets were well filled with the glittering ore, or if they purchased a tract of land for each, they then had done their duty. Oh, no! he felt the great responsibility resting on him as a parent; and now that he had engaged in the cause of religion, he felt that care the more, for true religious principles will temper the heart and enlighten the mind. He did not then have the opportunities of giving his children as thorough an education as we have in the present day in common schools, for they were then supported by subscription, and the greater number of his neighbors were of the opinion that it was of little consequence whether the common schools were kept up or not. Besides, it was rather a difficult matter to procure a good instructor; yet he gave them what was then termed an extra education. 
               A rising family always brings new responsibilities to a thoughtful mother, and Mrs. Milony endeavored to meet those cares with an enlightened mind. Her daughters were just entering society, and Mary being the oldest, and of a gay disposition, was a new source of care and anxiety to her, as she contemplated the future welfare of hers daughter, for she saw very sensibly the snares that would obtrude themselves in her way as she passed through the world. Therefore she endeavored to implant in her mind the great necessity of living within the boundary of christianity, and soon she was made glad by seeing them unite with the church. 
               Quite a number of the young people in the valley were to be catechised as a preparation for entering the church. Mary and Sadie Milony were of that number, and in due time were admitted as full members of the Presbyterian church, but, as is too frequently the case, they knew but little about a change of heart. Their mother saw this, yet hoped that it would be a shield to protect them from going far into the depths of sin, as might otherwise be the case. 
               You are already aware that the country was entirely new, and but few of the people were connected with any branch of the church; and, as might be expected, their winter evenings were chiefly spent in the ball-room, or other places of amusement. Mary and Sadie Milony being very handsome, were considered the belles of Conewago, and were certain to receive invitations to those social gatherings. 
               Mrs. Milony did not approve of this, but Mary would tell her that the minister did not forbid it, then why should she? Yet their mother knew that though such conduct was tolerated in the church, it was not in accordance with a true christian character, for we are commanded to separate ourselves from the world. She frequently remarked to her daughters that she could not see how such were separating themselves, when all that distinguished them from the world was their connection with the church. She saw a greater work to do, but could not convince them; therefore she committed them into the hands of God, and prayed that they might one day see more clearly their duty as christian professors. 
               Mary particularly was quite an efficient dancer, and she loved nothing more than to frequent the gay and fascinating ball-room, which she did when an opportunity would be offered. Her sister was of a more quiet nature, yet she loved dancing and went with Mary. As they were gay and very sociable, they attracted to them a great number of admirers of both sexes. 
               Mrs. Milony always objected to her daughter's uniting with any of her own countrymen; "for," said she, "they are generally quick-tempered and unfeeling, looking for utter subjection from their better half." This was rather singular, as she never had known unkindness either in her father's home or in her own; but she was one of those who appear not to see, yet nothing escaped her observation. She was often heard to say that she thanked God for casting her destiny in so happy a situation, for her heart was ever sympathizing with the sorrows of others. She seemed to possess a natural tact for detecting wherein the fault rested, and did not take the man or woman who appeared the most pleasant, to be the one which she would choose for a companion. There is something in the countenance of a person, that a close observer, and those possessing searching minds, can discover his principles and character, and even his disposition. 
               You may wonder how this may be done. When you are in conversation on any particular topic, especially on the relation existing between husband and wife, keep your eyes steadfastly fixed upon them while you are giving your opinion, and, notwithstanding all their endeavors to deceive, you will discover something in their countenances which will betray their most secret thoughts; you will observe a restlessness in the eye of which they themselves are not aware. This is a part of human nature which all should acquaint themselves with. I have frequently thought, while conversing with persons, that, though they were using their utmost endeavors to have me feel that they were my friends, I could read in their faces the secret of their black hearts. Not long since, I was told, while conversing with a young friend, that he believed I knew all his thoughts by the expression of his eyes. I do not think this is possible. But I do contend, that if the young people contemplating marriage would take this all-important subject into deeper consideration, there would be fewer unhappy matches. 
               I find the great trouble in our day, when young people associate together, they do not enter into very deep conversation, but pass off a joke carelessly, without even noticing the effect produced on the person at whose expense you are joking. And the chief study is, how they can appear well in society, be considered handsome, or have a pleasing remark made about them. You say the good qualities a person possesses may be attributed to proper training; then how can so much be told by the expression of the eye? You are right; good instruction is an essential part in the formation of character. The mind, like a garden, if not well cultivated, will be filled with noxious weeds of vice. Yet I insist that, in the eye, is imprinted, in indelible characters too plain to be mistaken, the depth and manner of the cultivation the mind has received. I admit there are exceptions to this rule, as to all others of similar quality. We may find a wayward child who will spurn the advice of friends, thus bringing sorrow and disgrace upon them, and not only on themselves but on their future posterity. I am a firm believer in that portion of scripture which says the iniquity of the parents shall be visited on their children, even down to the third and fourth generations; and well has it been verified. It is seldom that a child will deviate from the path of duty to a great extent, when the parents go hand in hand, training and bringing it up in the fear of the Lord. 
               The training of a child should create a deeper interest in parents than it usually does. I have often heard parents remark that they knew they it had done their duty, and should their children not do well, they felt perfectly content; when, at the same time, I knew that they had pursued a course vastly differing from the right. But the day is approaching when they will become aware of their error, when perhaps it will be too late for them to retrace their steps and do what they have left undone. 
               Ah, parents, wake up to a sense of your duty now! It is not scolding and whipping that form the character in a child. There is either too much of the one or the other, or sometimes too much of both; yet be firm with them. You can be too rigid in some things, yet you can never be too firm for the right. Never command unless you intend to be obeyed; and never promise unless you are certain you can fulfill. Let your example, then, agree with your profession. Talk often with them, on the beauty of an upright principle; teach them to do unto others as they would have others do unto them. Do not consider what you do for them of so much more value than what they do for you; and, children, never think that you can do too much for your parents. Pray to God, then, to give you grace to be conscientious in all your actions, and cast out every thing you find lurking in your heart contrary to his will. If you follow these simple rules, your children cannot but be a blessing to you and an ornament in society. 
               As Mrs. Milony's two daughters were thus ushered into society, she began to fear that she had in some way failed to fulfill the requirements of God, for she plainly saw the twinkle of disobedience in Mary's eye; but, after a moment's contemplation, she ascertained the cause. After having lost their boy, they, like too many others, lacked the firmness in controlling her; therefore she was permitted to have her own way. I do not think a child should never be indulged, for there is a certain degree of indulgence which is essential to its happiness; but parents should be careful when and under what circumstances those indulgences are granted. 
               You are aware that the health of your child can be injured by giving its food irregularly, or in improper portions; just so can you injure your little one by excessive indulgence in the small pleasures of its first days. So it was with little Mary, as already told. Her mother, being a close observer, feared that she was not inclined to choose such a companion for life as would make her happy, not but what she chose of the most respectable class, but she was not particular enough to seek that beauty of soul that is necessary for one's happiness. 
               In those days every one manufactured their own wear, both for Sunday and every day. Robert could not weave himself, but he built a little shop and employed a very nice young man to do the weaving. He was an American. Before he was long in the family he exhibited a preference for Mary's society, which was very pleasing to both father and mother. He was a member of their own church, was tolerably well educated, and possessed more than a common share of kind-heartedness, which Mrs. Milony so much prized in a young man. Mary did not seem entirely indifferent to his attention, but she was young, and had as yet no serious reflections concerning marriage. Her mother did not wish her to be in great haste about any thing of so much importance, yet she would have been pleased to have her think more favorably of young Harry than she did; finally, she took the liberty to converse with her on the subject. 
               Mary replied, with a merry laugh, that he would make a good subject to set up in the cornfield to scare the crows away. 
               Harry was not very handsome in person, yet he possessed that beauty of soul so rarely found in a young person, and more to be coveted than gold, though so often passed by with indifference by the young and thoughtless. Mary, to please her parents, would accept Harry's company to and from church, and to evening parties. He was very partial in selecting such parties as were truly moral; and would attend nothing but a social evening gathering where he thought innocent merriment would be the order, ever keeping the fear of the Lord before him. The youths of the valley would remark that they always felt themselves under restraint when he was one of their number, he was so conscientious; yet they could not refrain from admiring his noble spirit. 
               I would say to the young, one and all, try to be admired for your good qualities, not for the outward appearance you can make, which will fade as old age comes creeping on. Remember the fairest flower will soonest fade, and beneath the most beautiful rose may lurk a venomous reptile. Yet there is a beauty that will last through life's short pilgrimage, and extend beyond the tomb: I mean the soul's rich diadem offered to the true, the pure in heart, who spurn the idle fancy of the world and grasp true happiness alone. 
               Why is it that all admire the Good and Virtuous? Yet comparatively few endeavor to be what they wish others to be. And how many sacrifice the society of the true and noble for that of fading beauty! Their reward is sorrow and disgrace, while their parents go down to the grave broken-hearted. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               QUITE an excitement was created among the young ladies of Conewago valley by the arrival of a handsome young Doctor from Erin. As the news went abroad various were the comments on his appearance, his beauty, &c.; then he was well educated, and had at his command all the money he desired. 
               They concluded to have a ball, for the purpose of extending his acquaintance farther through the neighborhood, and the Miss Milonys were invited. From the time this wonderful beauty-as he as called-came into the neighborhood Mrs. Milony had a strange foreboding of evil, which she could not account for; but her two daughters were quite anxious to be introduced to him, so they made every exertion to appear as attractive as possible. 
               Mary was quite sure that there would be those at the ball who would be fearful that she would attract his attention, and she ever delighted in being the envied one, therefore she arrayed herself in the gayest form of fashion. 
               Her dress was a white skirt beautifully embroidered broidered, and a waist of pink lady's camlet. Her chestnut brown hair was braided, and supported by a turtle-shell comb, while her head was enriched by a beautiful wreath of white roses, fastened on the top by a golden clasp. Alas for poor Mary Milony! On that fatal evening she eclipsed all the young ladies present. Her sister was also very elegantly attired, yet she was younger and more retired in her manners. Modesty seemed to be a part of her nature, being more disposed like her mother, seeming to see nothing, yet nothing escaped the quick glance of her dark eye; and when she was sociable with any one she knew with whom, and what character they possessed ere she would have much to say to them, which I think by far the best rule. 
               Mary was by no means a forward girl, but she loved conquest. Before long she had captivated young Lee, and he going to a young gentleman of her acquaintance, requested an introduction; therefore in the next set of dancers called on the floor, she was his partner, much to the annoyance of the Misses Robinson, though there was one present who did not much envy her, and that was her sister, who, from the moment she saw him, took an aversion to him which she ever after felt, though he was among the gayest of the gay, for she soon saw some thing unpleasant ant in him. It was but a short time until Dr. Lee discovered that he was not a favorite with Miss Sadie Milony. He affected not to observe it, but in after years she was rather unceremoniously reminded of it. How little did she think that her conduct on that evening would be so long remembered! yet little did she care. 
               Sadie, too, met an admirer on that evening. A close observer might have seen a pair of black eyes watching her every move; but she was so reserved in her manner that he felt somewhat perplexed as to how he should proceed in forming an acquaintance with her. And while he was thus watching her, she was viewing him with interest, for she admired his steady and quiet deportment. 
               As the company was dispersing for the evening, and the gentlemen were seeing that the ladies were provided with some way to be safely taken home, not a few wished to be of the number invited to ride with young Mr. Lee. But, much to their mortification, he stepped up to Mary and Sadie Milony, and kindly invited them to ride with him; but Miss Sadie disdainfully refused, at which her more dashing sister felt indignant. Finally the young man of whom we have before written, came and offered his services. She accepted. So Mary went alone with Mr. Lee. Sadie, perhaps, did not go quite so gay with this young man as did her sister, but as you follow me through the history of their future lives, you will then see which made the wisest choice. 
               It is not always gold that glitters. So it is with mortal man. It is not those who make the best appearance that in the course of time prove to be the best. 
               After they arrived at their home, Mary felt rather indignant towards her sister, for the manner in which she treated a stranger, and especially one who ranked in society as Dr. Lee. Sadie, for a while, listened very attentively, as her mother had always taught her to be sociable and show respect to all. Sadie was somewhat fearful that she would be displeased with her conduct. At last she ventured to say that she greatly feared Mary would see the day that she would wish she never had seen his face. But Mary, like all self-conceited persons, fancied that she knew best, and being so irritated at this remark of her sister, thought to wound her feelings bypassing remarks concerning the young gentleman who had conducted her home. She called him stupid, and said that he was obliged to study half a day what to say, and she greatly feared he would spend all he could earn buying fancy vehicles to take his lady around. Her more thoughtful sister calmly replied that she did not entertain the hope that she would ever be so happy as to be the wife of such a considerate young man, but she had more hope for the future than to think of being united with such a man as Mr. Lee. 
               The following morning each had her story to tell concerning their enjoyment on the previous evening, and giving their opinions about the two strange young men they met there. Their mother had always so conducted herself as to gain the entire confidence of her two daughters, for she thought this the surest way to prepare her for giving them proper advice. 
               Mothers who have a thought for the well-being of their daughters, should be very communicative, enter into their little joys and sorrows, for by so doing your children will not be so distant and selfish, you will be led into their secrets and understand them the better to guard them in the path of right. I notice as I pass through the world that where mothers yield more to the wishes of their children, every thing moves off in harmony. Keep your children so near you that they will come to you with all their hopes and fears. When you reprove, do it kindly, and in a loving manner, and not so disdainfully as to send them far beyond your power to call back. 
               Some few winters since I was made to see more clearly the result of indulgence and kindness in parents toward children. We had quite a spell of good sleighing, and the merriment of the young held unlimited sway every where. Parties of various kinds, and even moonlight rides over the glassy snow, seemed to fill up the order. "But," says one of those self-righteous! bigots, "that is the ruin of young people!" We admit that there are certain kinds of parties even a poison to the mind. Yet they are not when conducted in a proper manner. 
               "Then," says one, "how can that be?-Can you expect them to be conducted right when parents take no interest, and allow no enjoyment?" I answer no. Let old and young go together with their enjoyments, and do not be so superstitious that your children will be afraid to indulge even in a good laugh, lest they be insulted in the presence of their young associates. The time to which 1 refer the parents usually were of the number, and indeed I can, of a truth, say that I never, in all my life, spent a season of more true social enjoyment. Being then in my fortieth year, and of delicate health, I did not feel myself a suitable companion for the young, though almost compelled to attend their parties by those with whom I was acquainted. But it did my soul good to see the earnest glee of youthful minds around me. Yes, my thoughts wander far back the stream of time when my heart, free from care, bounded in joyful merriment as its tuneful chords were gently touched. But some, perhaps, will say, "I would not enjoy myself in that way, nor would I suffer it in my house, to be a disgrace to the church and to the cause of religion." Let that father or mother examine themselves, and I am pretty sure they will remember, if they wish, when they permitted their son or daughter to break the great command which says remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, with but very little, if any thing, said to them. 
               My heart is often sad when I see parents professing to serve God, withholding from their children the simple pleasures which I can not but believe God designed them to have, and which not only tend to make them happy, but expand the mind and forms of those sociable beings. One of the great laws of nature is enjoyment: deprive beings of that, they will soon droop and die. 
               Behold the youthful mind, how full of glee! Go even to the green pasture, where the young lambs frisk about, scarcely able to make known their true feelings of joy and happiness. If we see in dumb animals such expressions of mirth which, if suppressed, would injure their physical growth, how much more essential, then, is it to the expansion of the mind that is immortal! And what will draw your thoughts to the abode of bliss more than a company of young persons in a social evening party? It caused me to forget the toils and cares of this world, while my soul swelled with gratitude to God for thus forming the mind to enjoy the lovely scenes he, in his infinite wisdom, has prepared for us. 
               What is more lovely than youth before they have become so deeply dyed in sin, or before the cares of life have cast their blighting shades around them? I firmly believe that God will hold parents guilty for thus depriving their children of their youthful enjoyments. There are parents who do not allow these pleasures at home, for fear they will receive the censure of the church or their minister, not thinking that God is greater. But when Sabbath comes they hitch up and go to visit some of their neighbors; or perhaps attend church in the forenoon, and accompany some brother home to dinner, where the topic of conversation will be the prospect of the market, or comments on some unruly church member who, perhaps, is more acceptable in the sight of God than themselves. Let us now turn to the house of such parents. Here the uncultivated sons and daughters exercise full dominion, some times playing ball and, some times skating on the ice, never thinking for one moment that God commanded them especially to keep the Sabbath day holy. 
               I was brought up by parents belonging to the Presbyterian church, and in accordance with their faith, I was never allowed to visit on the Lord's day, and I now thank God that it was so, for even to this day there is nothing so disgraceful in my sight as a Sabbath-breaker, and besides this, it is sinful. Then how is this to be avoided? Here again is my theory. Give them those simple amusements. Train them up to it, and by imbibing in them principles of high intellectual and moral enjoyment, you crush out all that is of a tendency to degrade. O, what a lovely sight when husband, wife and children go hand in hand through life! We might almost call it a heaven on earth where they make their abode. 
               If you use too rigid authority over young people while they are under you they will seek enjoyment elsewhere, and very frequently that is amid the haunts of vice; then, to screen them from the harsh reproof of parents, they will resort to an untruth. Thus by being too strict you cause your children to commit sin. Then, in training children, reflect more on what is your duty towards them, not depending on what some bigoted minister teaches you. Here again some will say, you are teaching our children to disobey the ministers of the Gospel. Not at all, my friend. But I insist that you keep your eyes open, that you will be able to ascertain whether they are truly the ministers of the Gospel; or whether they are merely laboring to keep up their authority, and are not laboring with all their souls for the good of mankind. A true minister will draw around the youthful heart with tenderness and bring them into the fold of Christ, then they will seek wisdom and shun all the evils which beset them; and by so doing he will teach them, that only within the pales of Christianity will true enjoyment be found. 
               The question arises, how can they serve God and go with the world? We admit they cannot; but these innocent enjoyments are not of the world, or contrary to the will of God. An evening social meeting can be made useful both to mind and body. Such were the ones I am writing of and which I prefer; but I do not approve of the rude gatherings which are conducted in so disgusting a manner as we frequently see them; singing idle songs, dancing, and making themselves appear ridiculous in the sight of any intelligent, well-bred person, where none but the thoughtless are collected, to enjoy themselves in what manner they choose. This proves the necessity of parents going with their children and instructing them in their enjoyments. I have seen entire families ruined by parents being too strict on the one hand, while, on the other hand, they neglected to restrain them in things of far greater import. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               MRS. MILONY, through kindness, won the favor of her daughters, therefore they concealed nothing from her; and, in this case, they confidingly told her all about the party. Mary painted in glowing terms the appearance of the newly-arrived stranger. Her mother listened with an air of uneasiness that she could not account for, yet thought it better to say nothing. Sadie felt a little indignant at Mary for her treatment to her after they had retired to their rooms on the previous evening, therefore she did not hesitate in giving her opinion, which was not very favor able to young Dr. Lee, though she felt rather an interest in the young man who accompanied her home. Mrs. Milony was troubled as she saw Mary inclined to think so highly of Mr. Lee, as also was her father and Harry Wadsworth. 
               Every thing went off quietly for some time. Mary and Sadie saw nor heard nothing of those two gentlemen; as the one went to Philadelphia and the other to Maryland, to a brother of his who resided there. 
               We will here glance at the respective characters ters of those two young men. Mr. Lee and his two brothers were obliged to leave their native country in consequence of their unwillingness to take the oath of allegiance to the king, at the close of the Irish Rebellion. The two oldest were men of families at the time, and resided some distance from their parents. Though possessing a considerable amount of property, they were compelled to leave all, except what barely brought them to America; and when they arrived here one of them was the sole possessor of but seventy-five cents, while the other owned but fifty. But the Doctor was the youngest, and his father assisted him in his flight, and gave him what might be termed a reasonable fortune; and though they did not come in the same ship, they were so fortunate as to meet soon after their arrival in Philadelphia. 
               After they met, Thomas (for that was the youngest brother's name) loaned the two brothers of his fortune, which enabled them to remove to the State of Maryland; where they settled down, became wealthy, and brought up highly respectable families. But they were entirely of different natures from their youngest brother, who, being the youngest of the family and the mother's pet, consequently was indulged excessively in all his passions. His mother was a woman who possessed but a very little quantity of sweet temper herself, therefore it could not be expected that her favorite would be any of the most pleasing in his manners. Richard McBay was the other stranger's name. He was an American, and a plasterer by trade; and, at the time Sadie first met him, he was visiting an aunt in the vicinity, which accounts for him being present at the party before spoken of. The two young ladies little expected ever to meet either of the strangers again; though Mary entertained a faint hope that the gallant young Doctor for which she felt such a lively interest would some day return, as he had numerous acquaintances in the neighborhood. But she rather feared that he was corresponding with Miss Robisson. This would be a source of annoyance to Miss Mary; but Harry's hopes revived again. Mr. and Mrs. Milony became every day more attached to him; for, though they had been brought up in high life, they did not despise him because he was obliged to labor. 
               Mary was aristocratic. This she inherited from her father. But Annie had changed his opinion somewhat; she taught him to feel that it is not the occupation which makes a gentleman or lady. 
               One pleasant summer evening in June, after the party which sealed Mary's destiny, she dressed herself in clean clothes after her day's work, and was standing in the door gazing intently on the sun as it cast its last lingering rays upon the earth, her attention was attracted by the sound of a horse coming at full speed up the road. In a few moments it came in view, bearing the form of Dr. Lee, her attendant the evening of the party, and ever present in her memory since. As he came near she quickly recognized him, but, bowing very low to her, he passed on without stopping. Mary's heart beat quick, for she imagined he had gone to visit Miss Robisson. She hastened to communicate this to her sister. Sadie had but few consoling words to offer. She replied, that she had always hoped that something would occur to prevent him from deceiving her sister. 
               "Why, Sadie, what harm did he ever do you?" said Mary; "you seem to have a great antipathy to him." 
               "He never did harm to me, nor do I expect he ever will, unless he is so fortunate as to win the heart of my pretty sister." 
               Here they were interrupted by a hearty laugh from the shop, much to the annoyance of Mary; for in her great excitement she had forgotten that they were so near young Harry, who, above all, she was the least desirous of making known her disappointment; also, that he should know her sister's opinion of the young stranger. The two sisters had ever lived in harmony, but for once a revengeful spirit was aroused in Mary. She felt herself highly insulted, and giving herself a haughty fling, replied: 
               "I suppose it would suit you better if that stupid Philadelphian would come with his old cart!" 
               Sadie did not appear to care about her sister's remark; but giving way to a fit of teasing, as young girls are apt to, she said: 
               "Would you not envy me if I should get the black-eyed Philadelphian for a husband and live in style; while you would be obliged to live in poverty with the famous Dr. Lee, and perhaps be compelled to take in washing to procure decent clothes, or even keep life in the body?" 
               This excited Mary's merriment, for she felt quite sure that she would never do any of the things laid out for her; and when she saw married women going out to work, she would often say that, when she was married, she would give her husband to understand that he was bound to support her. Her mother possessed an unlimited influence over her father, and she fancied that if a woman pursued the proper course with her husband he would come up to the right mark. But as a general thing, where you find one man influenced by a woman, you will find twenty over whom up influence can be exercised; thinking themselves disgraced if they yield even for their own benefit, and looking upon a woman as inferior in intellect, no matter what her qualifications are. 
               How little did those two thoughtless maidens think that their conversation on that evening would ever be realized. But strange things do occasionally transpire when least expected. 
               An uncle of Dr. Lee's sent for him to come and practice medicine in the neighborhood, as there was no physician within ten miles. But in those days there was but little sickness; people were of a healthier constitution than now. I know this from experience, for my parents could endure more hardships in their old age than any of their children; though my mother was brought up without being obliged to labor. When she married she took, as it were, a leap in the dark, and the result was an unhappy match. Thus we were turned out to do for ourselves, and might have become hardened to the drudgery of unfeeling employers, but our constitutions were delicate and never could be strengthened by hard labor. 
                
               A word to young men having mothers of healthy, rugged constitutions. Think not that she whom you have chosen as your companion must be able to do the same amount of labor your mother was capable of performing. It is not always a healthy appearance that determines the strength of a person; and if your wife should come far short of performing the amount of labor your mother does, do not be continually reminding her of this seeming delinquency, for such conduct at once proves that you married her for a slave and not for true affection and your equal. Then the truth of her unenviable situation bursts upon her, entirely snatching away the spark of ambition left and making her unfit to perform the duties involving upon her, which might be made easy if borne up by the sympathies of a kind husband, who endeavored to have her feel that what little she did was appreciated by him, to whom she had intrusted her all. 
               I have frequently had occasion to remark the feelings of terror in poor, weak woman as the meal time arrived and it was not prepared for their legal lord, when his footsteps were heard in the door and his rough voice reminded her that his mother always prepared the meals at the proper time; when that young wife, perhaps, was scarcely able to remain out of her bed, much less perform her household duties. This is conduct to which I have been eye-witness. Where is the man that his wife can dare remind of the amount of labor performed by her father, in such a manner? Can you find him? if you can, you will have done more than I ever could accomplish. You ask, are we not then to speak highly of our mothers? Certainly you are; nothing so distinguishes young persons as to speak in the highest terms of their mothers, but not in the manner we so frequently hear their good deeds spoken of-to irritate the wife. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               DR. LEE procured a room from his uncle and commenced practicing medicine, which was not very extensive for some time; but finally his fame went abroad as possessing certain remedies for cancer, sore eyes, white swellings, &c. 
               In the course of a few weeks Mrs. Milony's youngest child took ill very suddenly, and great fears were entertained as to its safety, especially the father, who, being very much attached to all of his children, almost idolized Frank and the baby, who bore its mother's name and features; and Frank being the only boy was, as is natural, a source of much pleasure to him. As the child lay suffering, he could not think of its pining away without one being called in who might understand its disease, so he proposed to send for Dr. Lee. Its mother felt a shudder pass over her at the mention of him coming into the house; but the child was still growing worse and it was too late an hour to send any distance for a physician, that she reluctantly consented to have him brought, though his appearance did not tend to exalt her opinion of him. He was rather of a pleasant nature, yet she did not fail to notice a certain restlessness in his dark eyes. Perhaps if she had not been the possessor of daughters her aversion to him might have been less. He came and went for several days, as the child was still in danger; and he seemed well skilled in his profession and possessing a good tact of pleasing his patient, insomuch that, no matter when he came, the child was glad to see him come. 
               One day, after he had been to visit the child, Mary asked her mother what her opinion by this time was of the young doctor. Mrs. Milony had ever taught them not to be too hasty in making remarks about strangers, and she was at a loss how to proceed lest she should contradict her teachings. Finally she ventured to remark that he would do very well to admit as a doctor or visitor, but further than this she did not like his appearance. Her reasons for this reply was, she plainly saw that her daughter was inclined to think too favorably of him. 
               The child at last recovered, and the doctor still occasionally visited them. They saw the effect produced on Mary; But they vindicated the doctrine that there was a right and a wrong time for every thing. So they did not abruptly order him away, as a great many would have done; Frank was called and the horse nicely stabled. They did not deem it prudent to be harsh, but mildly reasoned with their daughter and endeavored to turn the channel of her thoughts in an opposite direction; but all in vain. Dr. Lee became a regular suitor for the hand of Mary Milony. 
               Her parents did not think best to treat him harshly, consequently he was not decidedly forbidden the house, but they treated him with all the courtesy they could command in such circumstances; but he readily apprehended a coldness toward him, and soon became convinced that he was an unwelcome visitor with all the family except Mary. Yet he cared but little so long as she was inclined to think well of him; besides, he clearly saw that it annoyed young Wadsworth exceedingly, which seemed quite a comfort to him. Presently the poor father and mother saw that he was determined to be the possessor of their daughter. But what were they to do? Had he even been all that their hearts could desire, she had not yet completed her education and was too young to enter into any such engagement. 
               They were then finishing a new academy in Philadelphia. Robert made this known to his wife, and proposed being among the first to patronize the institution, by sending Mary and Sadie to finish their education, as by so doing they might change the thoughts of Mary to a channel far more prosperous than that in which it was now directed. The term was to commence the next month, and it was mutually agreed upon that the two girls were to go. At first they were highly delighted, as they were both desirous of obtaining a good education; so there was new clothing to be made, and old repaired. For a few weeks all was hurry and bustle, to prepare them for the journey. Harry was to accompany them, which offer he very willingly accepted, as nothing gave him more pleasure than to be with her he adored. All seemed to be doing well enough; but alas! our brightest hopes are often doomed to grim disappointment. Just as all was in readiness for their departure, to their dismay Dr. Lee made his appearance, and they all saw some thing in Mary's looks which was portentious of nothing good. That afternoon he again came, and boldly requested the hand of Mary. 
               Had Mrs. Milony been suddenly stricken down by a stroke of apoplexy, she would not have been more shocked than to hear such a demand as that from one she so disliked. For a moment she was unable to speak or move. Much rather would she have surrendered her daughter to the cold grasp of death than to see her united to one so entirely unable to control his temper as Dr. Lee was, as there had several things occurred which fully revealed his temper to them. He fled from the hand of tyranny, yet felt very strongly inclined to be disposed in that way himself, thinking that all over whom he exercised authority must bow at his shrine, and run at his bidding; but with all this he possessed the power of fascinating most all who came in contact with him, consequently he was blessed with a goodly number of admirers. Ah, yes! how many poor, innocent females do we see thus fascinated by the wily serpent in human garb as he uncautiously approaches until within grasp of them, and binds them down while life remains. 
               Mrs. Milony was a woman of very mild nature, and now she kept herself composed so far as she was capable of doing so under such painful circumstances. She had never been in any way attached to him, and now it was a severe shock to think of him being one of the family. Robert was more quick tempered, and boldly confronted him with the question as to what authority he had thus to interfere with his design in sending his daughter to school, and how he dared show his impertinence so basely. The doctor being intent on coming out conqueror, soon apprehended that the best course for him to pursue was to feign calmness, while truly his very heart was foaming for direst vengeance. He replied that he was perfectly willing that she should attend the institute, provided at her return he should be allowed to claim her hand; but her father indignantly replied that if he ever claimed her hand it should not be with the consent of her parents. He said this he could easily do, for he did not think their blessing would benefit either of them to any great extent. 
               At this Robert's rage was uncontrollable, and he hastily forbid him to come into his presence again. Mrs. Milony saw at once that he had adopted a wrong plan, for should Mary still persist in becoming his wife, she well knew that his hatred to them would never be obliterated, and would only add to their daughter's unhappiness, which she knew would be great enough. She then went to Mary's room, where she found her in tears. Going up to her kindly, and imprinting a kiss on her fair brow, she, with all the anguish a mother only knows, exclaimed, "Oh, Mary! I fear you are bringing a sea of trouble on yourself and parents! Remember the many nights and days of anxious care we have had for you! And do you not think we feel the necessity of guarding your youthful path? I would much sooner lose my own life than be the cause of throwing one dark shade over your young heart; but I can not bring myself to feel that you will be happy if you unite yourself to that man. I may be mistaken. I hope I am, if you will be so obstinate, but remember that sin first came into the world by disobedience, and I fear you will bring sorrow into our happy family if you persist in doing what you seem to have set your heart on. There is Harry, whom, I am confident, loves you, and would make you happy when the time arrives for you to take the responsibilities of a house upon you. Did you ever take into consideration what it is to become a wife and mother? Did you ever go to your closet and ask God to direct you, and enlighten your mind, that you would be able to understand your duty in this all-important step?" All this time Mary sat a silent listener, but at last she said: 
               "Would you have me marry a man I could never love?" 
               "No, my child, I do not say that you shall marry him, though my firm conviction is that the one will make you happy, while the other, I have no doubt, will make your life miserable. I have now told you all I can say, and will leave you in the hands of your heavenly father." 
               Mary burst into tears, and said: "Mother, the Doctor is so kind, and so handsome; then his profession will give him a position in society, which Harry can never attain to; and further, you are aware that mechanics never rank very high, and besides being a mechanic Harry is so homely that I should always feel like keeping him in some place of concealment, as I would certainly feel ashamed of him." 
               "Oh, Mary!" said her mother, "how can you talk so about one so virtuous, and why make such unbecoming remarks about his personal appearance? Remember God formed him just as he designed him to be. I very much fear that you will see the day you will repent your admiration of beauty now." 
               Mary replied with a gay laugh, "I will please my eye if I break my heart!" Oh, stop, fair one; think that it is not alone your heart you are breaking, but long after your body shall have passed away, the traces of your conduct will remain on the earth an everlasting monument in the memory of future posterity. Go with me through this simple narrative, and you will be convinced that I am right. As sin first came into the world by disobedience, so the first real and lasting sorrow was brought into the peaceable family of Robert and Annie Milony, by the disobedience of Mary. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               AT last the morning arrived when they were to start to school, and Mary reluctantly consented to go; but Sadie was in full glee, her young heart as yet being set on no one, she looked forward to the prosecution of her studies with great delight. This was her time for learning. I think it the duty of parents to urge on the education of children while their minds are young and free from worldly care. Then only is the time they can fully learn and retain what they learn. I know this from experience, as do all who have passed their youthful days. When young, I could acquire knowledge ten per cent. faster than now, and what I learned when young I even now have better recollection of than since I passed the age of sixteen;-and not only that, life is short, especially the youthful portion of it, which should be improved, and thus give ample time for enjoyment and usefulness in the world. "But," says one, "I am not able; I must first pay off my farm and purchase more land, then I can educate my children." I contend there is no one so poor but can give his family a tolerable good education. It has pleased the All-Wise giver of all our earthly blessings to place us in a land where every opportunity is offered, and where the government so gloriously provides for all who wish to rise in intellectual improvement. 
               Remember fathers and mothers-or more especially fathers, for to you is alloted the control of these things-that God will not hold you guiltless who neglect your duty in this, and do not improve the heaven-bought blessings which God has so bountifully spread out before you. Had I a thorough education, I would not exchange it for all the gold in California, were it in my power to do $o. Oh, that it had been my lot to be of the happy number who enjoy the privilege of obtaining a good education. Again, a thorough education does not consist in book education alone; that forms an essential part. Behold the book nature spread out in all its beauty before you, inviting you in language too plain to be mistaken, to learn there. Then let not your golden moments run idly to waste. You having parents willing to provide for your education, grasp the opportunity so kindly offered you, make good use of it, and remember if you do not, there is an All-Seeing eye ever watching over you, and will bring you to account for the time you misspend in this way. What an awful thing it will then be to meet the great Judge of the universe and look back upon the time you never can recover, and see charges written there against you which you never can repay! All you have belongs to him, even the breath you draw, and he will require it at your hands. 
               Mary and Sadie arrived safely in Philadelphia. Harry, according to Mrs. Milony's request, procured a respectable boarding place for them, and started homeward with a faint hope that all would yet be well; but that hope was indeed faint, for he perceived a restlessness in Mary that seemed to indicate that she would not long remain in that place. Sadie was in high glee, and bidding Harry good bye, said, "Tell father and mother that we could not be better situated than we now are;" but Mary did not so much as send her best wishes to them, for she, like too many others, felt herself cruelly wronged. 
               For a few weeks every thing went well enough, until one evening a friend brought them in several letters; one was for Mary. Sadie plainly saw in her countenance whose name it bore. In a short time Mary became very homesick and determined to make a visit to her home, but Sadie was not willing to lose so much of her school time; so she remained at her studies and Mary started home, telling her that she would be back soon. She arrived at her father's residence Tuesday day afternoon. Her parents were very much grieved to see this, though they concealed it as best they could. The day after she came home she made a visit to one of her neighbors, where she met Dr. Lee and made the necessary arrangements to elope with him on the following evening. She was to retire at the usual hour to her room, and after all was quiet, he was to whistle as a signal for her to go. Accordingly she went to her room and arranged every thing in proper order. As her sister was out that evening, she had no one to interrupt her. 
               Her father had purchased for her a beautiful horse and good saddle as could be obtained in those days, that she was to have specially for her own use. So when the family had all retired except herself, she quietly took the saddle to the barn; then she went to bed, but not to sleep. Soon the expected signal came. She arose and attired herself almost in the same manner she had been the evening of the ball. I believe the only difference was, the waist was of a delicate green color and a hat of white beaver, fastened under the chin with lovely pink ties, while over her hat hung carelessly a richly-embroidered lace veil-a present sent to her by her grandmother from Ireland. When she was dressed, she went to the mirror to see what kind of an appearance she made. But, as she afterward remarked, when she beheld her pale face in the glass and observed the furrows of care visible there, she started back in alarm. She well knew that she was doing wrong in taking such a step, and she felt unhappy. She would not now receive the blessing of her kind, good parents, who had ever been so indulgent to her; and keenly did she already feel the remorse of conscience. Again she heard the quick, sharp whistle of her lover, and hastened down to meet him. He met her with a beguiling smile, which soon caused her to forget her trouble and justify herself in doing what she did; that her parents were only prejudiced against him, and after they once knew that she had made a wise choice, they would forgive her and all would be forgotten. But poor Mary was doomed to disappointment. Those happy days past never returned to her, and when she so ungratefully left her father's roof she left happiness with all the rest. 
               They rode on gayly; and just as the dawn was becoming visible in the east, they arrived at the edge of Elizabethtown. They stopped at an inn, where the Doctor had made previous arrangements for the wedding. By this time the color had returned to Mary's cheeks, and she was lovely to behold. The landlord remarked, that if the Doctor did not take good care of that girl he would be willing to assist her father to take her from him. This caused Mary to shudder, for she only then became aware that the landlord was acquainted with the fact of their elopement; though she might have known that their coming at so unseasonable an hour would expose the secret, if her captivator did not. She felt confused and guilty, which her jealous lover soon observed, but as usual with such people did not attribute it to the right cause, but admitted the green monster, Jealousy, into his heart. Yet he was kind and affectionate, apparently; but with all his kindness Mary could not be gay, which confirmed his opinion. A splendid breakfast was served up, but little refreshment did Mary partake. Every sound she heard startled her, and her fears increased until she became really sick at heart. A deadly paleness overspread her face which was observed by all, though they said nothing to her. 
               We will now turn to her father's house. In the morning, Jennie and Betty arose and began to prepare breakfast. They thought that Mary remained in her room rather long; Jennie, particularly, felt quite alarmed-as she esteemed her sister very highly-and finally proposed to go to her room and ascertain what was the matter; but Betty told her that she supposed Mary was tired and wished to rest. Just then in came Harry; pale and excited, saying that Swift was gone out of the stable; then Betty remembered that she had requested to sleep with Mary the night before, but was refused. She then hastened to her room, but Mary was gone, and on the table she found a note addressed to her mother, in which were these words: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR MOTHER,-YOU yourself are to blame for the step I have taken. My life and happiness depends upon it, for I think you rather hasty in the opinion you have formed concerning Mr. Lee. Pursuit will be vain; for ere you can overtake me I will belong to another. 
                           
                              "Your daughter, 
                              MARY."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Much meaning was contained in this brief note, but it did not detain the father from pursuing them; ere many minutes elapsed he mounted his horse, and, ascertaining the direction they had taken, rode after them at full speed, just arriving at the place as his poor daughter was taking upon her the solemn vows of marriage. Pale and trembling, he entered the house as they were on the floor, and beckoned to the minister to proceed. As Mary beheld him her heart almost ceased to beat, and she afterward told her father that, had he said one word to her then, she would willingly have returned home with him. But there he stood, the tears streaming down his pale cheeks as he gazed upon her; and when the service was over he went to them, extended his arms, and called them his children. Mary's heart was too full; she fell on his neck and wept. Though her father's heart was almost breaking, he said gaily: "Cheer up, dry away those tears and mount Swift. We will go home to your mother; she will be happy to see you. We will have Frank to invite a few of our neighbors, and at last we will have a merry time." By this he thought to drive away the dark cloud which he saw had settled on his willful child's heart, for he never could see any one in sadness without endeavoring to cheer them. 
               The horses were ordered and mounted, and they were homeward bound. Though Robert had so cordially welcomed his children, as he called them, young Lee felt indignant and mortified that his fair bride should evince any thing like a repentant spirit. Men generally expect a great deal of respect shown them by women, therefore he felt that she did not show enough respect for him by so doing; though he did not regard her tender feeling as he expected her to regard his. He still remembered the insult her father had given him when he asked her hand, and it was rather a difficult task for him to compose his temper so as to accompany Robert home. Yet he pretended to be kind, but finally his evil temper could no longer be controlled, and he gave the horse his young bride was riding a sharp cut with his whip, which caused it to jump violently. The girth of the saddle breaking, the rider was thrown quite a distance. Her head struck something, she knew not what, wounding it badly; it bled profusely, saturating with blood her beautiful bridal hat and grandmother's present. 
               The mother was almost frantic as she saw the horse come galloping home. Where was the rider? Harry was soon dispatched to ascertain where the party were and why the horse came home as it did. They knew Mary was a good rider, and her mother said there must be something wrong or she would not have been thrown. But Harry was not long in defining the cause, for he had been in company with Mr. Lee and knew his excitable nature. He remarked to Jennie before starting that he supposed Mary's gallant beauty had been trying some of his exploits in riding-as he never rode along modestly-and no doubt she was killed. He could not but be expected to feel a little indignant at her indifference toward him, but the sight of Mary, all streaming with blood as she was, enlisted the tender feelings of his heart and he burst into tears, which Mr. Lee jealously observed, and in after years he reminded her of it. Harry's sympathy for her, after the manner she had treated him, affected her, for then, to her sorrow, she discovered the vast difference in the dispositions of the two men. Do not think by this that her love had changed; oh, no! but she felt a touch of pity for poor Harry, not for one moment thinking that by so doing she was bringing sorrow upon her head. 
               As they drew near home Mary felt a nervous sensation creeping uncalled for over her aching heart, for she was loth to meet her mother in such a condition. Then there would be, no doubt, some of her young friends there, and how could she appear before them; but there she was and could not avoid it. Just as they rode up to the door, out came Jennie repeating the old proverb, "Pride always comes before a fall." Mary endeavored to appear gay, but her sister's merriment only seemed to darken the cloud which hung over her. Next the mother came to welcome them, but her heart was chilled by the bitter glance which her newly-wedded son-in-law gave her, though she concealed her feelings and affected not to observe it. A sumptuous meal was prepared, and all passed off smoothly. All retired to bed in the evening but Jennie and Betty, who were writing to their sister Sadie, informing her of Mary's elopement and "down come," as Jennie was pleased. to term it. She was young, and, as might be expected, wrote in rather a sarcastic style. Betty's entire trouble was that Mary had soiled her nice hat, for she was well enough pleased with her new brother; and she said, in her innocent way, "I don't see why they don't like him, for he is so handsome and such a beautiful singer and dancer that I think they might make money. I am sure I do not see why father and mother can object to him." While her childish prattle ran on thus, poor Mary was bedewing her bridal pillow with tears; for the one who had beguiled her from her fond parents was so soon making her to feel that she was now entirely in his power, both soul and body. 
               Oh, I often wondered how he could do so, after winning all her affections to be even on this, the first evening of their wedded life, reminding her of all her father's conduct towards him, accompanying this with the vilest threats; and not only this, feigning to believe that she loved Harry better than himself, though he very well knew this to be false, for it was her privilege to become Harry's bride ere he became possessor of her; but it seemed to be his greatest delight to make others unhappy. Poor misguided Mary already felt the truth of her mother's reply, when she told her that she should please her eye if it broke her heart. Ah, thoughtless girl! she little thought that she was then laying the foundation for a broken heart. No doubt that very night she would have given worlds to be the bride of some noble hearted mechanic, who would look upon her as his equal and guardian angel, for there are even such to be found. Mary had ever felt an aching desire to be the envied bride of some dashing beauty, and now that desire was gratified. The Misses Robisson felt themselves most cruelly wronged, as they had fondly hoped that one of them would be the envied one. They made little difference which one he preferred, if they so happily had him connected with the family. Little Betty was sure he might have married them all. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               I SAID Mary wept. She wept silently, for she wished him to think that she thought him only jesting. 
               The next week they visited his brother, where she found a truly happy family, which gave her new hope, for she had already learned that from henceforth she must exercise a good quantity of patience and flattery with her legal lord, knowing his very excitable and jealous nature. A loving wife will ever cling to each ray of hope, and try to make the best of her trials by screening her husband's faults, thinking that by so doing he will change his course and become a better man; but poor, weak woman, the burthen sometimes is more than she can bear, and how many, oh, how many, silently sink into an early grave, lamented by her friends, but the cause of her death known only by him who knows all things, and has taken her away from this oppressor of innocent woman. They have taken particular pains to impress on the minds of females that it is the duty that God has allotted them, to conceal every fault of their husbands and keep them sacred. So well have they succeeded that very many of the female sex drag out a miserable and unhappy life known only to their heavenly father, who seeth in secret. 
               But remember ye who willfully inflict these cruelties upon your helpmeets here, for though it be in secret God sees it, and will reward you openly when the day of final reckoning comes, if not before that. You may appear kind in the presence of the world, yet be inflicting the most cruel oppression upon her who has confided in you, and you have taken for better or worse, and solemnly vowed to be her protector,-yes, often, as it were, the life-blood wrung from out them-yet in accordance with the customs of this enlightened land of freedom, they must bear all without a murmur, and wear a bright smile to throw a cheering light o'er the household when her heart is breaking beneath the weight of hidden bondage. 
               "Oh," says one, "you talk too fast, for men, as a generality, bow to women." Ah yes, in outward appearance. How frequently, as I pass through different families, do I see women forced to submit to these outward appearances in the presence of the world, to have it said-what a pleasant man Mr. -- is! How elegantly he dresses his family and cares for his children; when, perhaps, if you would take a peep behind the scenes, you would see that mother sacrificing sleep when all around was wrapped in deep repose, in order that she could take in some sewing, or perhaps washing, to purchase the very articles for which her superior is so highly applauded. Then this must not become public,-she must enjoin the greatest secresy upon her employers, as her husband would not like it to be known that she took in work to purchase the smallest necessary which, at the same time, she had pleaded for hours with her master to procure. I said master, and so he is, and one of the lowest grade, who will not provide for their families the article necessary to keep them moving in the circle of respectable society. When Sabbath morning comes, they will start off with their well-attired families to church, taking all the credit on themselves. 
               My firm conviction is that were these hidden things more public, we would see a greater number of blooming faced mothers. "But," inquires one, "do you think it right, then, to expose the husband's faults? You should screen their faults as a trial of their honesty, but if, under this treatment the bondage still exists, then I say let it be known in all its vilest character. If this rule were more extensively adopted, there would be fewer wrongs to submit to. The generality of the human race love the applause of the world much more than the approbation of God; and I often think the greater part of mankind serve God more through fear of future punishment than the love they bear to him. I said serve God, but such can not be termed serving him; and greatly do I fear that when the bride-groom cometh their lamps will lack oil, and they be shut into outer darkness. Again, the question arises, do not women often request more than is proper for them to have? They certainly do, but a true woman will not. This is the class of which I write, and only what comes under my immediate observation. I notice as I pass through the world, that the majority of men take no pains to conceal the faults of their companions; and how soon the world at large will sympathize with such men! 
               I was intimately acquainted with a family in which the wife was so trained as to even tell a falsehood to conceal her husband's faults, laying the blame on some near relative in preference to him, while at the same time his treatment was almost breaking her heart,-and should she venture to confide a few of her pent up sorrows to a friend, she must do it in such a way as to throw the blame on a dear relative. 
               An incident having appropriate connection here, and illustrating the traits of character referred to, I will relate. A gentleman being so unfortunate as to lose his wife by death, affected to be very sorrowful; but I remarked that his greater sorrow was fear of expenses, as he very well knew that to hire help would be more expensive, and now that his ever present help was gone, he would be obliged to hire; but no doubt his poor wife was frequently obliged to hear a good lecture on her extravagance, perhaps not openly, but hiddenly the hissing fangs strike deep, deep into her heart, as he kept, no doubt, a continual complaining about his enormous expenses and debts, which must be paid before he could procure the things called for. But now that she was dead, he must select another, and put an end to the expense of hiring a housekeeper. This he soon did, but this poor servant did not serve him quite so well as the first one. And then he was terribly annoyed with her made cough (as he was pleased to term it,) as he said she was compelled to cough much more when any one was present. This gave him great fears that the neighbors should after a while think that she was not really able to work. 
               He therefore felt it his duty to make known all her bad qualities, ever bearing on his countenance the mark of deep distress of mind, on account of the many wrongs inflicted upon him. Never once did he think that he should conceal
                   her faults, and not expose them; but poor Rose's conduct was spread among all who knew her husband, and much sympathy did he receive from those who were not intimately acquainted with his wife, even among females, who would not have taken half what this dying creature was obliged to bear. Finally the assumed cough proved fatal, and Rose went to rest. Then, lest some of the neighbors should think that she had been mistreated, and it should prevent him from obtaining another wife, he lamented her loss, and frequently repeated her good qualities-was sorry that her health had been so delicate, as he was sure she was an excellent housekeeper. He discovered too late that her cough was really a consumptive one. When she was dead a fine coffin was procured, and quite a display was made. Such conduct may pass in the world, but ah! there is one who knows all, and will note these things down. 
               Much has been said about the task-masters of the South, how they oppress their subjects, but enough has never been said or written about the hidden wrongs of the white women in the North. Should I be the means of exposing some of these grievous wrongs which God permits to be, among the many other things which he permits for some reason yet does not approve of. I say can I be the means of exposing such hidden oppression, and lighten the burthen of poor, downtrodden females, I shall feel amply repaid for my little labor. It will brighten my last moments. For my part I would much prefer being the oppressed than those merciless tyrants who are thus treasuring up wrath against the day of wrath. I believe, with a few eminent writers, that heaven will contain more of the female sex than of the male, because of their many trials and opposition to serve God. Where little is given, little will be required; and surely he will require more of the male sex, they being the more privileged characters, though he usually there finds the least. 
               God is merciful; and therefore is the way more open to down-trodden females. His grace is sufficient for every trial, and he will grant them grace to overcome all if they trust their Divine Master. It cannot be expected, when the mind and body are oppressed, but that clouds will sometimes obliterate their bright sunshine of hope, and they often deviate from the right path and fail to do what is required of a true Christian. Yet may God, in his infinite wisdom and mercy, pass by their many imperfections, and lead them to trust in him as their truest friend. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               MARY was very much pleased with every thing about the pleasant home they were then visiting. Though scarce two years had elapsed since they came there stripped of almost every comfort of life, every thing around wore the look of comfort and prosperity. The Doctor appeared in good spirits and treated his Mary (as he called her) with great respect; he seemed to be quite proud of her, and one day he said to his brother's wife: 
               "Maggie, you have not told me what you thought of my wife!" 
               "Well, Thomas," she replied, "I think she is much too good for you, unless you govern your temper, and I fear you will never make her happy. I was in hopes that you would never be so fortunate as to win the heart of any female; but now, as you have found so intelligent and handsome a lady and won her for your companion, do not disgrace your brother by living a contentious life." 
               Mary had been walking out to survey the surrounding scenery, and on returning, as she neared the house, her attention was arrested by the sound of her husband's voice in angry conversation with his sister-in-law, as her remarks had highly offended him. Mary entered, greeting him with a smile, but he left the house without paying any attention to her whatever. This coldness from him almost struck her to the floor, which the kind-hearted Maggie soon observed, and, going up to her and throwing her arms around her neck, said: 
               "Poor Mary! I fear you will never see much pleasure with Thomas, for he ever was a willful child, being the youngest and the mother's darling, partaking of her disposition; and she was of such a tyrannical nature that his father never led a pleasant life. I called him father, for he ever was such to me. My mother died when I was but four years old, and my father not wishing to be encumbered with a child, gave me into the care of Mr. Lee. He then sailed to America, and I never heard from him again; But Mr. Lee was every thing to me that a kind and indulgent father could be, giving me as good an education as he possibly could, in opposition to the will of his tyrannical wife. I called him father, but could never find it in my heart to call her mother, for she never was a mother to me. I will bear the marks of cruelty from her to my grave; and my heart bleeds to see such a girl as you fall into the hands of one so near like her. I very much fear," continued she, "that ere you will be much older he will remind you that he is your master, by an occasional blow from his hand or foot." 
               Mary might have told her that this had already been the case, but her only answer was sighs and tears. Could she then have gone to her mother and poured out her sorrows; but how was she to do this to one she had so cruelly disobeyed? 
               Maggie went on with her story: 
               "John was so much like his father. It was our pleasure to make each other happy in childhood, and in the same manner do we now live. His mother had an antipathy to him because he would advocate the cause of my rights, and, in our little wars, give Thomas an occasional blow in return for mistreating me. Then his mother would say: 'A nice thing indeed that my child must be mistreated for that beggar brat!' Thus passed away my first days; and when John arrived at the age of twenty-one, we were, by his father's permission, united in the holy bonds of matrimony. But I thank God for the hope of spending a happy life, and I will endeavor to live so as to meet the approbation of him who has so highly favored me." 
               By this time the Doctor drove up, and angrily ordered her to prepare to go home. It was then almost dark, and Mary very well knew that they could not reach home that night, but her husband was insulted and she must comply. After she had seated herself in the coach, John came up and, taking her by the hand, said: "Farewell, poor Mary!" This so dreadfully enraged him to think they should thus extend their sympathy to her. He started off at a rapid rate, as was his custom when his temper was high. Yet it was impossible for them to reach home that night, so they took lodgings at an inn by the way, and the next day they reached home. 
               Then commenced arrangements for housekeeping. Her father gave them a room in his house, and for some time the anxious parents cherished a hope that Mary had not done so bad after all, but they were not allowed to know any of his actions; and then he had united himself with the church and lived very strict, in accordance with its rules, insomuch that in a short time he was promoted to the office of Deacon. Mary grew gradually pale and thoughtful, which her mother observed, but little dreamed the cause. 
               But we must not forget Sadie. She had returned from school, and Frank and Betty were sent away to finish their education. Sadie once more met the stupid mechanic (as Mary at one time was pleased to call him); he became her lover, and in a few weeks they were to be married; and Harry married one of the Miss Robissons. 
               Mary grew more and more discontented looking, until she became the subject of remark; yet no one could conjecture the cause. They thought surely the Doctor was doing well enough. After awhile Thomas fancied that his health was failing. The practice of medicine was obnoxious to him. He disliked the idea of being chased out of his bed all hours of the night; so he proposed to his father-in-law to farm his place. Robert readily assented to this as Frank never liked work on a farm, and, as yet, had not finished his education. Besides, he thought that himself and Annie had labored hard enough to have some one now to take their place; though Mrs. Milony had never really worked very hard, as she was of rather delicate health, and, while her children were small, she was provided with a domestic; but Robert was not so selfish as to take all the credit upon himself, for he always contended that a good wife did equally as much toward accumulating wealth as the husband, and he thought himself of that happy number who had found a good wife. 
               After Thomas had taken the farm the good old couple thought now they could enjoy the result of their labor, as they always led a happy life. Mrs. Milony became more uneasy about her daughter, as she watched her looks still growing more sad. At one time she ventured to ask the cause, but Mary replied that she did not feel well. 
               Sadie by this time had become the happy bride of Richard McBay, removed to a neighboring town, and was fast accumulating wealth. Richard was one of those Earth Angels sent into the world to brighten the pathway of the weary traveler, and every where he went he shed a radiant light around him. He became wealthy, and his name occupied a place among the most illustrious in the town. 
               Mary was now the mother of two children-Frank and Prudence, as they called them. Frank was beginning to talk, and one day he came into his grandmother's room and said, in his plaintive, broken way, that pa had slapped mamma. Could this be possible? thought Mrs. Milony. But when she made known to Mary what little Frank had said she affected to smile, and said: "Thomas was only playing with me." This did not satisfy her mother. She informed Robert of it, and they determined to ascertain the certainty of the affair; so one morning, hearing rather loud conversation in their room, Robert slily opened the door, and oh what a sight for a father! Thomas' temper had risen to its highest, pitch, and thinking himself unseen, he gave his trembling wife a slap alongside of her head with his rough hand. 
               Robert could control himself no longer, but going quickly in, taking him by the collar and putting him out the door, again forbid him the house. Mary then flew to his feet and entreated her father not to do so, "for," said she, "he is the father of my children; he means to do better, but he has such an ungovernable temper." 
               Her father replied that Thomas had now broken his marriage vows, and she again belonged to her parents; that he would take care of her and the children, but Thomas should never enter the house again. 
               Foolish woman! why did she not then accept the offer of her kind father? But pride kept her back. She begged her father and mother not to acquaint the church with this, as it would so disgrace her children, and perhaps be the means of driving her husband entirely to ruin. She said that when any thing went wrong he always felt like giving vent to his ill temper by striking some one, but as he grew older perhaps he would be more able to control his temper. But her hopes were never realized. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE insulted husband determined to quit the house, and Mary must prepare quickly to remove. With many sighs and tears she left her father's house, never to return until she was called to the death-bed of her poor mother. But such was the extent of her husband's insult, that even when her mother was fast passing away, though she had been repeatedly sent for, he would not allow her to go until her father came and threatened to take her by force. But, alas! it was then too late; when they arrived at her poor mother's bedside, death had crept so stealthily on that she was no longer able to speak. Mary knelt beside her bed and begged of her mother to forgive her disobedience. She would have given worlds then to hear that welcome word of forgiveness, but it was too late-she could not speak-though she responded by a gentle pressure of her hand, which she held until her pulse ceased to beat. Mary had often thought of asking her mother's forgiveness, but had delayed until now; and now it was too late-she had trifled too long. Though she still had a faint hope that her earnest appeal had been heard, yet! oh! how much better to have heard words uttered from her own lips that that appeal had been heard and granted. But she reasoned with herself: Now, if I ask her forgiveness, it will at once be confessing that I am sorry and have done what my mother told me I would do. 
               To those who feel that they have in any way disobeyed their parents' command, I say go immediately to them and confess your fault, for depend upon it, when too late you will bitterly regret your delay, when the form is cold in death and the voice no longer is able to respond to your pleading. A mother's love, oh, how boundless! Even when the wayward child grieves her by disobedience, she will extend her arms of love towards you, and beckons you away from the dark abyss of ruin which, unseen by you, besets your path. Remember, my young friend, your mother is your best earthly friend. Do not therefore spurn her advice, for she means it all for your good. Sometimes mothers do not see quite as they should in regard to the happiness of their children, yet treat them kindly, for depend upon it, they do value your happiness far beyond their own, and their love is equaled by none but the love of your heavenly father. 
               Think of her suffering for you, then try to repay pay it by kindness. How pleasant to stand by the couch of a dying mother, and reflect that you have never, in word or action, grieved her! Though Mary could recall no act of unkindness towards her mother, yet she honestly thought that by this once disobeying her she had shortened her mother's days, and brought sorrow on her own self and family. True, her father loved her, but in accordance with man's nature, he thought she had obstinately put herself just where she was, and he would do nothing for her unless she would come home. Not so with her mother. She felt that Mary loved the one who so basely misused that love, and this increased her sympathy for her, and many little gifts of kindness did she confer upon her poor child. She would see that Mary had every comfort, for Thomas, like many others did not see, or did not want to see, what was essential to her comfort, and in fact she became so fearful of exciting his displeasure, that she dared not ask for what she could in any way do without. But now as she gazed upon that lovely form sleeping so cold and still before her, she felt sad and lonely. She then went to her baby sister, but one year old, who was sleeping sweetly unconscious of all that was transpiring around it; and oh, how gladly would she have taken it to her home and been a mother to it, but she dared not. Then came in little Ann-her mother's namesake-and said, "Will mamma never wake again?" "No, dear little sister," Mary replied, "mother will never wake again in this world. She is up with God, waiting for her children to come." The family all collected in the room, and mingled their tears of grief. 
               Mary heard the coarse, rough voice of her husband calling for her to come home with him. This added a new sorrow to her already overwhelming trouble, for she could not think of leaving the house until her mother was conveyed to her last resting place. Her father told her to remain in the house until he would go and persuade Thomas to allow her to stay. As he met the stern gaze of her husband, he endeavored-as Mary had told him-to be calm. He said that he did, not wish Mary to go until her mother was interred, and requested him also to remain. At first the Doctor seemed determined to have her go with him, but after reflecting a moment, he thought best to submit, as he might probably get the ill will of the community, and the church would be incensed against him for such conduct. So things, apparently, went off pretty well, but Mary thought that were it not for her children, she would gladly give up this life and rest by her mother's side. Thomas wept and appeared kind. Again a fond hope sprang up that perhaps her mother's death would work for good with her husband. He was easily affected to tears, and at times was kind, but he possessed such a violent temper and usurping nature, that it seemed impossible for him to continue kindness any length of time; and he gave way to his temper to such an extent that he not only made others unhappy around him, but made his own life miserable; for he still possessed more good sense than to think that this conduct was right. And even until his death, he was a man of noble mind, which those who visited him in his last hours could testify. A gentleman who conversed with him shortly before his death, remarked that he had never known a man possessing such an intellectual mind at the age of eighty years as Thomas Lee possessed. He would converse on any topic as correctly as the most could at thirty, being well versed in scripture and history. He said it was sad to see one possessing those qualifications permitting his temper to rule him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               MRS. LEE'S mother had now been dead two years, and her life was yet unpleasant. They were gaining wealth, but Thomas was unkind to her, and discontented with every thing he undertook, and, had he possessed a sweet temper his unsteadiness in business might have been borne with, for he prospered in every thing he undertook, though he did not remain any length of time at one particular occupation. I have heretofore told you that he ceased the practice of medicine and had taken to farming. After he left his father-in-law's, he bought a large farm and stocked it well, but as he disliked farming, he employed his brother to do the work. The house was large enough for two families; his brother was a very mild tempered man-very kind and indulgent to his wife and family-and Mary thought perhaps he could influence her husband for the better, and for a while every thing went well enough. 
               But new sorrows arose for Mary. Her uncle came over from Ireland, brought the remaining part of her father's fortune, and persuaded him to remove with him to what is now called old Pittsburgh. Mary could not endure the thought of his going, and especially of parting with the two small children, but her father insured her that he would use his influence to have her come some time. 
               Jennie had just entered the married life, thus leaving her father with no housekeeper but Betty, a girl of fifteen. Mary was very much concerned as to his moving with so little help, as she had a very poor opinion of her aunt. She feared that her little sisters would receive but very little good advice, which they so much needed, still she hoped for the best, as prospects in her own family began to grow brighter than usual. Her husband stood very high in the church. He was a regular attendant himself, and always kept a nice horse and saddle for his wife to go, but he never provided any way for the family to go. He and his wife would start, telling them to be good children and read their books, for he was very particular about the Sabbath day being kept, but as might be expected, they would romp and play more than they would read, and the church was quite a distance off, and they always had two sermons, which kept them away most of the day. I frequently wonder that ministers do not urge upon the members of their own church the necessity of bringing their little ones to the house of God, but if you watch parents closely you will find that they love money better than the souls of their children, and will not buy them suitable clothing to take them to church. I think that ministers of the Gospel should go from house to house, investigate these matters, and urge them to see if their children can attend church. It would, indeed, make a great improvement in society, for many of the noble youths of our land are ruined by such treatment, and not unfrequently by parents able to do better by them, but too worldly minded to deal out that blessing properly which God has so kindly conferred upon them. But were. ministers to do their duty in this matter, I doubt not but many a poor abused child would be made happy. I once heard a fine, promising boy say-his eyes brimful of tears-"I wonder if pa will ever get me clothes, that I can go to church, for I would like to hear them talk about the Good Man." My heart ached, for this was the son of a professed christian, who was called brother by church and pastor, while he was secretly withholding this heaven-born privilege from his children, not even sending them to school, that they could learn to read about their heavenly father. 
               Now, I deem it a duty enjoined upon all ministers to search into the circumstances of every family in their charge, learn if their children attend church, and if not, know why it is so. 
               The first day of May dawned, and Robert Milony had his wagon loaded in preparation for his intended journey; but he thought he must see his Mary before he went away, so he sent Frank after her; but Mr. Lee thought she had no right to go, after the way her father had treated him, and positively forbade it-and she was weak enough to submit. 
               Now, gentle reader, do not think that he was the most tyrannical man you ever heard of, for I have been intimately acquainted with more than one man that on becoming offended at their wives' kindred, forbade them the house, and would not allow their wives to visit them. I knew one man that, shortly after his marriage, tried to sunder all friendship between his wife and her relatives. He tried to prevent her going to see them, but that he could not do; although he never took her, she let him see that she had enough of the true woman in her to have her rights. She would still go home. He never forbade them the house, but when any of them came, he would run out of the back door as they came in at the front. Now, what woman dare forbid her husband going to see his parents and kindred, no matter how they have mistreated her, but this, in a great measure, is the result of improper bringing up and a tyrannical custom. Women are taught to look up to men as their superiors in every thing; therefore I believe that men generally think it their duty to use such authority over their better halves. 
               But we will now return to Mrs. Lee. She took her babe in her arms, and the other two by her side, and walked to the top of a high hill, where she could see them pass, and stood there watching the white cover of the wagon until it disappeared in the distance, then returned to her unhappy home, where she found Sadie and Richard, but the Doctor had gone away. After Sadie had parted with her father, she came over to comfort Mary; and Mary was glad that the Doctor was away, for she knew that Sadie would have spoken her mind to him, which she knew would not have answered. Abraham requested his wife to prepare dinner for them all. His heart was sad for poor Mary. 
               Richard and Sadie then returned to their happy home, though not quite so gaudy in appearance as that of Mr. Lee; yet sweet content reigned supreme, and Richard's mild temper spread a gleam of sunshine over all the household. When Thomas returned she met him pleasantly, though her heart was heavy, and quickly made ready his supper. He was very unhappy, yet he tried to justify himself with the thought that her father had insulted him, not thinking that she had no right to disrespect her father; but it seems to be a feeling so prevalent among the male sex to think that females should bear all, and even turn against their own kindred in order to please their husbands; and some, I regret to say, are weak enough to submit to this rule. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               MONTH after month rolled away yet no tidings came to Mary from her father, and pictures vivid and awful would haunt her day and night. At times she fancied them all murdered; at other times she would imagine that her father had resolved never more to write to her. But again, why did he not write to Sadie and Jennie? Each day she would tread the same imaginary road, and each day left her still none the wiser. 
               One pleasant evening in November, as she was coming in from the barn with little Tommy by her side, she saw a covered wagon coming down the road in the direction of their house; and she remarked to Tommy that it looked very much like his grandpa's wagon. As they drove up to the door, what was her surprise to see little Anna get out of the wagon and run to meet her. She was too much overjoyed to speak, but, stooping down and kissing Anna, turned to Frank and Betty, whom she found weeping bitterly. This so distressed her that it was difficult for her to compose herself to say: "Where is father?" At last Frank replied: "Father has gone to mother, whence he will never return." "Oh, God! can I bear this?" exclaimed Mary, then sank insensibly to the ground. Thomas, hearing the noise, came out to see what the matter was. So he called his brother, and they gently raised her up and carried her into the house. His feelings again were touched, for he knew that he had been the cause of her not bidding farewell with her father for the last time, before he started for the West. (No doubt the thought of this cruelty to Mary haunted him through life.) When Mary recovered from the first stroke of grief sufficiently to hear, Frank related the following account of her father's death: 
               "As we were traveling," said he, "father contracted a severe cold, by exposure; his throat became sore, as we thought-but afterwards it proved to be the quinsy-and the third day after we started father complained of feeling very tired, and we thought best to stop as we were then near the town called McConnelsville. We drove up to the first inn we came to and engaged lodging for the night. It was a neat house, with a porch in front. While uncle and myself were stabling the horses, father stood on this porch conversing on various topics. Father remarked that they would probably have a frost that night. As he said this, he sank down and never spoke again." 
               Now Mary regretted deeply that she did not visit him in spite of all opposition, and she would have given worlds to know that he did not feel vexed at her, though her little brother and sisters assured her that he did not; yet it was not from him, and the thoughts of this haunted her in all her after life. I was with her in her last hours, and heard her remark but, a few weeks before she died, that, could she have that to do over again, she, would go though it cost her life. Thomas, she knew, would not kill her, and he would tire of scolding; and she would have been much happier, after her father was in the grave. Therefore take warning by this, and when you have the right, stand firm and you will conquer, for God will stand by you. 
               It was a melancholy thought to those poor children to leave their last earthly friend here in the mountains, though they found friends even here. After their father was buried, they wished to return home; but their uncle persuaded them to go on. They did so, but were not contented there. So Frank proposed to go back to their old home, and, being a very resolute boy, vas not to be defeated in this plan. And they started; and when they came to the place where their father was buried, the people treated them with great kindness. Finally they reached home safely. Frank, if I remember right, was but seventeen years old, yet he rented a farm (for his aunt, who went out with them, so managed to get their money into her hands that they were not able to buy one); but they so managed that in a short time they purchased a piece of land for themselves, and Frank, like a noble brother, gave his sisters a good common education. 
               We will now pass over the space of ten years. Mary has become the mother of eight children, and her sorrows were none the less. Thomas sold out and removed up along the Swatara Creek. Here sickness overtook them. The Doctor then turned his attention some to the practice of medicine, but his chief occupation was buying and selling. Diving deeply into debt, he incurred heavy losses. If I were to relate the whole of Mary's sorrows here, I fear the reader would think them greatly exaggerated. Her husband stayed from home much of his time, and, to add to her suffering, he took to using liquor rather freely. In those days it was not uncommon among acquaintances to banter for a treat. This practice did not exist alone among the lower class; for had it been confined among the lower class, Dr. Lee would not have been induced to take part in it, for he was naturally a high-minded man. At first he would eat with his associates and not drink, then took a little beer; from this he went to brandy, Yet he never became a low street drunkard, but would neglect his business; and of course his temper grew no better under the influence of brandy, and at times he was desperate. Finally he was excluded from the church; then, being under no restraint, his conduct was almost intolerable. 
               One day Mary was weeping, and her little Willie came in and said: "Don't cry, mamma; when I get to be a man I will take you away from papa, where he cannot scold or whip you." She pressed her darling to her heart and hoped for the best. But three weeks after this Tommy was taken ill with the sinking chills, and died; and in one week after Tommy died, little Willie was no more, to cheer her by his innocent prattle. He was taken away by the same disease. Then Eliza fell victim' to the same, yet did not die quite so soon. She was able to be around, and her mother went to a neighbor's house, leaving her on the chair, knitting. The physician came to give her medicine, which she took while he was there; after he went away, she told Fanny that she felt tired and would lie down. Her sister saw that she had a singular look, and ran quickly to bring her mother. They returned just in time to see her breathe her last. Her eyes were already dimmed by death, and all she could say was, "Oh, mother, I cannot see you!" This was a hard stroke for Mrs. Lee, but as she looked around and thought how they were growing up, she could only say, "God does all things well." 
               Her brother Frank came over in great haste one morning and told them that Betty was very ill, and that the physician despaired of her life. At this time Mr. Lee's heart was yet tender from the loss of his children, and he started with Frank home, taking his wife and the children with him. When they went into Betty's room, she smiled smiled sweetly and beckoned for Thomas to come to her bedside; he did so. She then told him to prepare to meet her in heaven; that he must, in order to do so, live differently from the manner he usually lived, and be kind to his family; that God saw fit to remove some of his children to that happy place where she hoped soon to be, and she hoped that he would now endeavor to meet them. Thomas did not get angry, as usual, but walked the floor and wept. He knew that what she said was true, and he felt deep remorse of conscience; but, like too many others, it soon wore away with him. Thus one hope after another other was banished before Mary, and she almost sank in despair again. 
               Thomas sold out and moved to Hanover; here she was separated from all her relatives. Her son Frank became discontented and left home, she knew not where. Being brought up as they were they could not but be unhappy, for they inherited very high notions from both their father and mothers' parents, who moved in the best society. 
               By this time the Doctor received a letter from his brother in Maryland, stating that there were several very severe cases of cancer, and that if he would come and undertake them that they would give him one thousand dollars. As he had been so successful in healing cancers that his reputation stood very high, was why they so often had a strange physician in their own family, as he was taken far and near, and would sometimes be gone from home for months. 
               As he had been very closely confined to practice for a little spell he came to the conclusion that he would accept the offer, for he fancied that he needed a little recreation. As is usually the case with men after a little confinement to business, they think they must enjoy a trip on the cars, or perhaps indulge a little in the use of strong drink-this must be to prevent their spirits from becoming dormant-but don't often think they have a companion who has borne her share of the burden, and she too needs recreation. As a general thing, this occupies the least of their thoughts; she must labor on and alone. It would be too expensive for them both to go; and not unfrequently, if you examine her wardrobe, you would not find a dress suitable even to visit a neighbor's house in. With all this she no doubt will be reminded, for the hundredth time, of her great extravagance, and if a suitable conveyance is procured she is the one for whom it is bought, though she may not be so fortunate as to ride in it twice a year. But ere he got started, he flew in a passion and did not treat his wife in a very becoming manner; the consequence was the untimely birth of a child, which shall henceforth be the subject of my narrative. 
               The ladies who were there when the child was born, remarked that it was well formed, but did not think it could possibly live. The two oldest sisters were rejoiced to hear this, and even Mattie and Arthur did not care that it should die; thus you see with all it was not a welcome visitor. But very often the most unwelcome remain the longest; so it was with this child. In all probability it would have been healthy, as it grew rapidly, but the proper care was not taken of it. Its bones were easily broken, and from some cause or other, when it was six weeks old, Mrs. Lee discovered that its right thigh was broken. It had just recovered from this when, one evening, its mother put it on the bed and Tommy thoughtlessly sat down so near it as to touch its little foot, and thus broke the other thigh; and when it was three years old every limb in its body was broken except the right arm, which God so mercifully preserved to aid in its support in after years. 
               Mr. Lee did not return until his little daughter was one year old. And then he would gladly have followed it to the tomb, for he did not much like the trouble she would be to him, though he forgot that he was the sole cause of her misery. Her mother also would willingly have seen her die, for she did not know what might be her lot in the world; but how little did she then think that the little form she looked upon as a charge would one day be her chief support. We should never cast even the most inferior object too far from us, for something frequently occurs that we find even the most inferior to be of great benefit. They gave it the name of its grandmother, and Aunt Annie; but usually it was called Little Annie. 
                
               Being of a lively disposition, and always in motion, so if she chanced to fall she was sure to break a limb. Her motions were extremely quick, and prophesied a temper equally as quick, and her dark blue eye soon sparkled when any thing went contrary. to her will. Even from her infancy she was naturally a close observer, and quick of apprehension, and before she was five years old she felt that she was not loved in the family; but notwithstanding her extreme suffering, she did not yield to despondency, but cultivated a haughty, independent disposition, which in after years bore her up through many trials, but likewise made her numerous enemies. When she was four years old her mother left her in the care of her little brother Arthur, and went to a neighbor's house to do some sewing, as by this time her husband would not provide at all for the family, and she was obliged to take in needlework. Annie had not met with any accident for the last year, and appeared to be growing quite strong. Her brother would place her upon her feet, then have her walk after him. In this way she walked twice across the floor. He was highly delighted to see his little sister walk. As it was a cold day, he was compelled to leave her for a few moments to go out after wood, but told Annie not to attempt walking alone while he was out, for young as he was, he knew that if she should get up alone, she would certainly fall and break some of her limbs; but he no sooner left the house than she discovered that he had neglected to close the door. She walked to it, and fell down over four steps on a flat stone, breaking her right thigh again, and her left arm in two places, mangling it in such a manner that ever after she was unable to raise her hand to her head, also completely smashing her collar bone. 
               Her frightened brother picked her up and carried her into the house, apparently dead. In a little while life returned, but it would be folly to undertake a description of her extreme suffering. Arthur placed her in the cradle, and thought to pacify her by rocking; but the shaking of the cradle only tended to augment her misery. He started after his mother, but hearing the screams of his little sister, he would then turn back, and in this manner he worked with her until eleven o'clock that night, when the unhappy mother returned and found her poor child in this awful condition. The child had screamed until it could scream no more, and now a low moan was all the noise it made. The mother gently removed its clothing, which was a very difficult task, as the child was very much swollen, but she soon ascertained the cause of the trouble, and bound up her broken limbs herself. There she was, alone with a dying child, as she thought. In this condition it lay for six long weeks, under the influence of laudanum, without even a surgeon being called in to ease its pain. All who then saw it thought the unwelcome charge would not long trouble any one; and its mother would have rejoiced to see its sufferings at an end; but there were more days in store for little Annie. In a little while she was restored to health, but she never after walked without the use of crutches, and even this she could do but a few years. They now resided near a little town called Campbellstown, in Lebanon county, which was famous for balls and drinking saloons, which, of course, did not add much to Mrs. Lee's happiness. Many a time did she wend her way to these infamous dens, and implore their keepers to withhold the intoxicating cup from the father of her children. They would sympathize with her, give her sewing, and any thing she wished for, yet deal out the poisonous draught to him. They knew that he was pretty well off for money, which the beer and brandy proprietors too well knew how to flatter from him. He ever had a taste for balls and young company, and care for a family was too confining for him. How much better, then, for such never to take the care of a family, for depend upon it, both yourself and family will be ruined. But, were there fewer of such houses to entice men of roaming minds, many a one would be sober, industrious and intelligent, who now is but a very little above the brute creation. Ah, when I pass those fashionable cells of vice, where the gay aristocracy are wont to frequent, I feel indignant, and only wish for the power to destroy them. Those places of resort are more dangerous than the low grogshops, where none but the lowest class attend; for the wealthy and respectable will not be enticed by such, but pass along under the mask of popularity, until at last they are found down deep in the mire, with the lowest of the low, robbed of their honor, and even those who spread the snare for them, will point the finger of scorn at them. 
               But ye who hand out the poisonous cup, did you ever for one moment stop to think that the entire support of your families comes from such poor, misguided wretches. "Every bite of food you eat-every article of fine clothing you wear-cries out in thundering tones to you, charging you with the price of the bread of those poor starving families. Almost every beggar you meet was made such by men, and very often women, who so degrade themselves. I, for my part, would much prefer being the beggar than he who made them such. But it does not often fail that when a man will spend his youthful days making drunkards, will himself go down to a drunkard's grave, and much worse-fill a drunkards hell. God is a just God, and will not permit such things to pass unpunished. I despise those establishments of vice. They disgrace the vicinity they are in, and would that the governors of our land would prohibit the perpetration of such crimes. 
               But I must pause. My nerves will no longer sustain me in the recitation of those scenes of cruelty and degradation. I myself have felt the withering curse; and when my thoughts revert to such scenes as I have passed through, my heart sickens and I turn from the picture of wretchedness. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               FRANK came back, and in a short time married a woman much older than himself, but who possessed far too sweet a temper for such a fire-brand as he was. He was in every respect like his father, yet his mother thought more of him than any one, and in after years would do more for him and his children than for any of her own. 
               Fanny had formed an attachment to a respectable and well-doing young man, by the name of White. In a little while they became one; but how fickle is earthly pleasure! In a short time that foul disease, the consumption, claimed him for his own, and he left this world, I hope, for a better one; and Fanny came home again to assist her mother with her family. In a little while she gave birth to a sweet child, which she called Lily, and which in after life was an angel of light to little Annie, as she as yet had no playmate but her brother. 
               Frank's little Mary would come over, but she would not play long until she would say something to hurt her feelings; though Annie was too independent to own that her feelings were wounded, but would say something again to equal her impudence; and, as her brother was his mother's favorite, she was sure to be severely reprimanded for it; but this only increased her already stubborn will, formed from the idea that no one loved her, and she was determined from her childhood to have justice. She would often wonder why it was that no one loved her. She loved a great many, but because she thought no one loved her she could not bear to have any one think that she loved them, or that it grieved her to think so. She would look haughty, even when her heart was breaking, and this spirit did not terminate with her childhood, but grew with her years. How careful, then, should parents be not to allow such ideas to spring up in the hearts of their children, for it has been the ruin of many noble minds, driving them to the mad-house, with ruined intellects, and many a one has by such thoughts sunk down to the lowest ebb of infamy and woe. 
               When Annie was five years old her father became so ill-tempered that the neighbors thought best for her mother to leave him, and advised her to do so. Fanny and her mother then hired a room, and went to themselves, taking the children with them. This touched the Doctor's feelings, for he could not bear to have it known that him and his wife did not live together, though he knew that he did not do his duty by her. Annie and Lily passed the time very pleasantly, and almost from the time Lily could walk, she would patter around and bring things to Annie with as much pleasure as if she was of more advanced years, and even more so than a great many older persons. In a few years the people began to say that Annie possessed more mind than body, and everywhere she was the favorite among children. Though very quick-tempered, she was not quarrelsome. Any one who would show her an act of kindness, she became very much attached to, and, so far as she was able, would not allow them to be imposed upon; yet no one found such a place in her heart as did her lovely Lily. One day she said to her mother: "Mamma, don't you think Lily well deserves the name which has been given her, she is so much like the fair, white lily? Then don't you think she is an Angel sent by the Lord to take care of me?" When Fanny complains so much about her waiting on me, she pities me, and says: "Annie can't get the things herself?" Fanny did so well at helping her mother along, that she won the esteem of all who knew her; but sometimes she would think that Lily had to wait too much on Annie, and would say things that would wound the feelings of Annie, and she would not allow Lily to get things, but would creep after them herself. Then Lily would follow after her, and lisp: "What 'e matter, Annie, me didn't say anything about getting the things for you." 
               When Annie was ten years old Fanny began to think that it was rather burdensome for her and her mother to support the family, though they did it in a very respectable way. Her father had been practicing, and had gathered a considerable amount of wealth; yet he was discontented, and would frequently come to see the children, and bring them presents, such as a nice dress, or some other article which he knew they needed. He began to take great notice of Annie, and often called her his only child. So Fanny told him that if he would allow her to bring the three children, she would come and keep house for him. She well knew that her father would not be troubled providing for a house; so, by bringing Arthur along, he could prepare the wood and run on errands, which her father would prefer paying for sooner than doing himself. Mr. Lee very gladly accepted the offer. 
               Prudence had married man named Leister, who died in a short time, of cholera, and Mrs. Lee was to live with her. But Annie very much missed her mother. Fanny would be kind enough at times, but would become weary of the trouble, and Annie would be accused of everything that would happen Lily. This would rouse Annie's temper; then she would be saucy. Though her mother would have done almost the same, yet she could endure such treatment from her mother better than from a sister. But all these things soured Annie's disposition, and in after years made her melancholy. She thought because God had afflicted her, every one loathed her. 
               The Doctor was so hard to please, that Arthur left, and went to Muskingum county, Ohio, where his Uncle Frank and Aunt Jennie had gone many years previous. After he left, Fanny could not get along with her father; so, one day while he was away, she removed everything she had there to her sister Mattie's. When her father returned and found his house deserted, he was very lonely-but had brought the trouble on himself. Fanny did not long remain with her sister Mattie, but went to Columbia, along the Susquehanna river. Annie did not see her much-loved playmate for one long year. It was a sad sight to see these two kindred spirits separated. Poor Annie could neither eat nor sleep, and Lily was equally as fretful. Annie's thoughts were constantly on her angel Lily, as she called her. Every pretty picture she imagined looked like Lily, and Lily pined away until her mother thought she must die. Annie spent many happy days in Campbellstown. She owned a little wagon, and the children would frequently come to take her out. As she was quite a favorite among them, they called her Queen of Campbellstown, because she was so much idolized by every one there. Then her high spirit would not permit her to associate with any but the families of the highest grade, and her motto always was, "Good society, or none at all."
                
               Prudence and her mother then moved to Spring Creek, and Lily came home, which highly delighted Annie. Here Annie enjoyed the privilege of going to school, and was made quite a pet among all the scholars except one, who thought to rule the school because her father was wealthy, and had heretofore succeeded in doing so, but finally she found an equal in little Annie Lee. The school-room furniture consisted of old-fashioned desks, extending along the entire length of the wall, with seats on both sides. Those who were writing occupied the seats next to the wall, while the smaller ones sat on the front seats. Annie was commencing to write, (though she had gone to school but a short time), and was entitled to a seat among the writers. The teacher pitied her, and admired her aptness to try any branch of study he wished her to. In this she was favored. It was customary for the scholars to keep their dinner-baskets on the desk in front of them. So one morning Lily came in and placed Annie's dinner on the desk. This school-room tyrant thought to exercise authority over her, and impudently removed the basket from where Lily had placed it. Annie quickly replaced it in front of her. The offense was repeated. Again Annie put it to its place, at the same time giving her a look which threatened retaliation. But again was the act of tyranny performed. Annie then crept up on the bench, reached her basket, and flung it out on the floor, throwing the contents out, and scattering everything in the mud and water, which was carried in on the feet, as there was then a deep snow on the ground. The teacher looking around, inquired who had done the mischief. Annie could then stand a few minutes if she had anything to support herself by; so she coolly arose and said: "I did it, sir." 
               "Why did you do it?" said the teacher. 
               Annie replied: "I wanted to let this girl here know that I am not to be trifled with," (at the same time pointing her finger towards the offender). 
               The teacher could scarcely repress a smile, though he tried to be stern. He asked her if she did not think she deserved punishment. 
               She replied: "I do not think I deserve it, though you may punish me if you like; but, if necessary, I will do the same again. 
               "Well," says the teacher, "all the way I know to settle this is to have you give her your dinner." 
               "That I can easily do, for I have but little here, and she will not get much," Annie said, with a hearty laugh. 
               The teacher saw that the usurper had received what was perfectly right, and he did not feel inclined to inflict much punishment on Annie, and what he did was far less punishment to her than he expected; for, when the time arrived for dinner, a cousin of the unruly girl gave to them all the dinner they wished for. Indeed the entire school rejoiced to see this tyrant equalled, as she was constantly abusing some one. Her father had paid considerable towards building the school-house; therefore, she thought this entitled her to reign queen in the school, and compel every one to bow at her bidding. But from that on she never undertook to interfere with Annie's affairs; but one day she caught Lily and pinched a piece out of her cheek just below her eye. Lily was an innocent girl, and made no resistance, but began to cry. But Annie thought she would pay her; so she told Lily not to cry, and she began to contrive how she would proceed. They were provided with shelves along the wall to put their slates and books on. So, when Hattie stood up to reach her slate, Annie bent a pin and put it in her dress, so that she would sit down on it. When she found the slate, down she came on the pin. Her screams attracted the attention of both teacher and scholars. The teacher inquired what the trouble was. She told him in a very vulgar manner; for, though her parents were wealthy, they did not pay much attention to the cultivation of refinement. The next inquiry was, who did the mischief? Several of the scholars saw who had done it, but no one would betray Annie. The teacher saw in the mischievous twinkle of Annie's eye that she was the one, yet he did not punish her, but in the evening gave her a picture of Lady Jane Grey as a reward. 
               Parents, in a great measure, are responsible for the conduct of their children at school. It is for the lack of proper training that the children of wealthy parents are so apt to feel their importance. Teach them that every good thing comes from God, and I will guarantee that their feelings will be different. I was sewing in the family of a Methodist minister, and one day their little daughter came in and told her mother that a playmate of hers had made sport of her poor clothes. She was very much excited; but I was shocked by hearing that mother, instead of giving her the instruction she just then needed to have her know that something more was wanting to make them good and virtuous, say, as she gave her head a toss: "If you do not outdress them, your father could buy and sell them more than once!" 
               Such and similar instructions have made so many vain people in the world, and the poor are obliged to have their feelings thus frequently wounded. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               IN the spring, Fannie and her mother again went to keeping house together; then removed to Hanover, in a house on her brother's farm. Frank came after them, with great pretentions to kindness, telling them that there was a good house on the place vacant, and promising to care for them. But, as they afterwards learned, he merely wanted them to help him along, as his wife was of rather delicate health and had become discouraged through his ill-treatment therefore took very little interest in her household affairs. So he thought if he could persuade them to move near him they could assist in the labor about the house, and he knew very well that his mother would do for him. The first spring after Fanny went there she washed and cleaned up their house; her mother knit and sewed; but they soon saw that this would not do-they must earn their own living. Frank would not provide their wood, nor even plow the potato lot for them. All the while they were working for him. Fanny began to think that if that was all he would do for them, her burthen was only made heavier. 
                
               There was no work to be procured except working on the farm; and her mother could get no work within ten miles, unless it would be a little spinning occasionally. Therefore the sup port of the house rested on Fanny, and she was compelled to resort to the field for labor. Her father paid eighteen dollars a year to her ungrateful brother for the use of the house in which they lived. 
               He had bought a farm which he intended should be for his Annie, as he said, but concluded that it would be best to sell the farm and put the money on interest for her; and, in this way, she never received any benefit from it. Her father always kept her well clothed, and gave her all the spending money she wished for. Had he given her an education instead, much better would it have been for her in after years. And often did she wish that the money which had been put out on interest, was spent in sending her away to school. Her teacher at Spring Creek frequently insisted on her father sending her to a boarding-school, as he saw that she was too delicate to associate with a set of romping, thoughtless scholars of a country school, though they made a great favorite of her. They would often, through diversion, carelessly injure her. At one time they threw her out of the door and sprained her ankle, so that she was compelled to remain at home for some weeks. At another time they buried her deep in the snow, and then watched her getting out. This was sport for them, but she contracted a cold which nearly terminated in, the white-swelling, and almost ended her life. After this she did not return to school; but she so loved her schoolmates that she never made known what she knew to be the cause of her illness until she became a young woman. Once she remarked to her mother that she should place her in the care of some one where she would receive proper attendance; but her mother did not see what was best for her poor, crippled child. Her father, like many others, thought if she had plenty of money that was all she needed to get along. He had given eight hundred dollars to a cousin of hers; one horse and a two-horse wagon, which he gave to Frank, and said was to be given her after his death. As he would provide for her while he lived, he thought that this money and what he had given her cousin would be sufficient to give her a start in the world, for he saw that she would do pretty well at taking care of herself. Then he gave her a fine buggy-horse, which Frank was to use on the farm, and when she wished to use it he should allow her to have it. But little use did Annie get of the horse, for her brother always found some use for it, and she was obliged to remain at home except when some kind neighbor provided a way for her. 
               Frank was at a loss to know how he should manage to get the money which her father designed for her; but finally he concluded to involve himself in debt. He then went to his father for money, for he well knew that he would not refuse. Being a very careless man about collecting his notes, he was obliged to make a draw upon Annie's money. In this manner the money was all drawn but thirty dollars. This her cousin refused to deliver to him, but started over to Mrs. Lee's early in the morning with the money, and, finding Annie still in bed, threw the money around her, telling her to take that and make good use of it, for that was all she would ever get of her money, as Frank had been after that, but that he positively refused giving any more to him. Mrs. Lee was indignant. She told him that Frank had just as a good right to the money as him. But he mildly replied: "Aunt, you will hereafter see that I have told you the truth, and this poor, little, afflicted child will never receive one dollar of what is justly her own." Mrs. Lee was very much offended at this remark; and Annie thought that her mother would prefer giving ing it to Frank than to the rightful owner. Mr. Lee told Frank that he never expected to have any more money to lay up, and that he should take care of Annie. Frank said: "I will take care of her." "No," replied his father, "give her the money, and she can take care of it; I want her to be her own mistress." Yet he did not place the property he designed for her in such a way as to give her power to lawfully claim her own. He still paid the rent while they stayed in Frank's house, and bought Annie plenty of fine clothes-but there was much needed besides this to support the little family. Being so near Harrisburg, provisions of every kind were very dear, and it was difficult to get them even for money, as the farmers were not willing to deal it out in small quantities. But Fanny was industrious, and, withal, they fared pretty well. They usually kept a cow, and raised their own pork, until they came to this place; but now Frank would not allow them to keep either. This made it more difficult for them to get along. 
               Mr. Stevens, the man to whom Mattie was married, sold out, and concluded to emigrate to Ohio, as they thought they could do better there. A few weeks before they started, they came to Mrs. Lee's, and remained there until they started for Ohio. Fanny proposed to accompany them to Harrisburg, and take Annie and Lily with them, as they had never been to see the city. This pleased the children very much. Frank and his daughter also went along. Annie was so delighted with the thoughts of the journey that she quite forgot her sister was going to the Far West, and she would probably never see her again. They went to the house of a friend in Harrisburg, and were very well treated. Annie was dressed in a pea-green merino frock, very gaily trimmed. Her other articles of dress were equally as gay and expensive. Then her fair and delicate appearance made her attractive to the children there, and all enjoyed themselves finely. At last the time came for the sister to leave, and they were to start from the hotel. The friends all prepared them to go with Mattie to the place from which they were to start. Fanny was to carry Annie, but little Miss Thompson proposed to carry her, and, while Fanny was tying the hat on one of her sister's little girls, she picked Annie up quickly and started off; but, in her great haste, she tripped on a little toy cradle which was on the floor, fell, and perfectly smashed her right thigh. This ended their enjoyment for that day. The little girl was exceedingly sorry, and was willing to do anything for her that could be done. A surgeon was called in, but he said her thigh had been so frequently broken that he could not do much for her. In a short time she became very sick and feverish, caused by the extreme pain. 
               Now was there an opportunity to test the friendship of Mrs. Thompson. It was almost dark, and Mrs. Lee was eight miles from home with that sick child, which the physician said would be certain to die if removed, as she was too nervous to bear it. But Mrs. T. began to excuse herself, saying that she was sorry that she was so situated that she could not keep them, as she was expecting company from Philadelphia, and, though she had an elegant house, would be too much hampered, but under no other circumstance would she allow them to leave the house, as her own child's willfulness had caused the trouble. 
               "O mother!" exclaimed the little girl, "it is just uncle and aunt that are coming, and I am sure we have a room up stairs that we can put a stove in; then we have a parlor up stairs and one down." 
               This, from a little girl, was rather a stroke for her mother, and at last she consented to have them stay. 
               Annie lay on a bed which they had made for her on the parlor floor, under the influence of laudanum, and seemed to rest easy, so Fanny and her mother thought they could then leave a few; minutes to see Mattie start, as the physician was there to care for Annie. After they left the house, Mrs. Thompson proceeded to make known a few of her thoughts to the Doctor. She said that she did not want the bother of that brat in the house. She was only a pest to her mother and all around her-further, she did not believe that she was perfectly solid minded. The Doctor replied that he would be very much pleased if all his children possessed a mind equal to that little sufferer before him. Annie did not in the least seem to notice any thing around her, but when her mother came back, she told her not to allow Lily and Fanny to go home until they could take her, for, said she I can not stay here. Her mother told her that it was now nearly dark, and the physician had forbidden her removal. But Annie said she would be removed if it did kill her. Mrs. Lee was to take care of Annie, and the remainder of those who came with them were to go back, but Annie would not be persuaded to remain. The Doctor knew the cause of her obstinacy, and he admired her independence, but he told her mother that now it would be more injurious to her to remain, under the present circumstances than to go home, as her excitement would only increase her fever, and the only way was to procure a bed on which to take her home. Annie thought she could do very well without the bed, and strongly protested against taking any of Mrs. T--'s beds. Mrs. T-- affected to feel very sorry, and said, "Why, my child, do you not want my bed-clothes? I am sure you are very welcome." 
               Annie replied: "I know the reason why, and so does the Doctor." The Doctor then went and procured bedding of the best quality to take her home; but while they were fixing her in the buggy, she swooned away as if dead. When she recovered they started. Several times on the road she seemed to be dying, but so soon as she, could speak she urged them on, which Frank was very willing to do, as he thought it not, of much consequence if she did die. They arrived home just at midnight, and for six long weeks she suffered every thing that mortal woman could endure. She was continually dosed with laudanum to deaden the pain; and she wasted away to a mere skeleton. Her father came then and gave her some medicine, and soon she began to revive slowly. Frank and his wife came there, and he remarked to Annie, in his usual unfeeling manner: 
               You good for nothing pest, are you getting well again? I thought we were going to get rid of you!" 
               Minnie turned to him and, with tears in her eyes, said: "Oh, Frank, how can you speak so to your poor afflicted sister? Is it not enough that she must bear distress of body?" 
               Annie could weep at sight of pain in others, but possessed such a degree of pride that she cold endure any hardship, and unkind treatment only served to make her the more self-willed. Often as she grew older she expressed a wish to be as submissive as Lily, but were it so ordered, she would have been obliged to bear much more ill-usage. Poets may write and people admire the beauty of a meek and gentle disposition, and we well know that it would be pleasant if the whole world possessed its divine influence, but tyrants will admire and yet take the advantage of such. Frank did not realize his fond hope, for Annie recovered, but never again was able to walk without crutches. Though this way of walking was not much comfort to her, for she was too weak to exercise much in this manner, and if she did she was sure to have some of her bones broken. 
               Arthur was writing to his mother that she should come to Ohio, as he thought he would rent a house, and they would keep house together er, and they could make a living easier than where they were. He said they would live in town, and Annie should go to school. Arthur had always been a better boy than his brother, and now that he had embraced religion, his invitation was flattering enough; but his father did not entertain such a high opinion of the kind offer. He told Annie that Arthur had never exhibited any of the kindest of feelings towards her, and he was sure it was no better yet; but if she would remain with him, he would take her to his brother's in Baltimore, and have her educated. Annie had never seen any of her uncle's family, and like many other children, did not like the idea of her mother moving away and leaving her there; also, that she would then be separated from Lily,-at any rate her mother would not hear to any such thing as to leave Annie behind. It was finally settled that they should go, but were not quite certain when. 
               Annie took quite a fancy to knitting, and requested her mother to teach her. "You learn to knit!" said her mother, "you will only learn to waste yarn." "No," said Annie, "I can learn to knit." But her mother still refused to give her the yarn, and one evening as she was toiling away with two pins, serving as knitting needles, she espied a ball of yarn and some needles above the window, far out of her reach. Quick she set her wits to work, contriving how to get them. She begged her mother to let her have them, but again was told that she had no yarn to waste. Then she concluded to try and get them herself. Luckily for her there stood under the window a large chest. On this she placed a small box that was in the room, then climbing first on the chest, then on the box, attempted to reach the yarn; but this was not sufficient high. Down she went after a stool, placed it on the box, and when the building was completed, she again mounted, and much to her satisfaction, could reach the object in view. Just as she was ready to descend from this elevated position, the stool turned over and she caught by the top of the window. The noise attracted the attention of a young lady who was visiting them, and seeing Annie thus suspended by her arm, ran and caught her just in time to save her from falling. When this kind young lady learned why she thus risked her life, she told her that she would show her how to knit. Annie soon learned how to knit, and the first she did was to knit a pair of stockings for her cat. The next was a pair of mittens, which she made without any instruction except looking at an old mitten. They were so well done that her mother kept them for years as a specimen of Annie's first knitting. Before long she could not be excelled by any one in the house. 
               Annie showed great taste in dressing herself neatly. This pleased her father, as he was a very tasty man, but her mother's ambition was so broken down that she took little pride in any thing. Sometimes Fanny would make Annie's clothes, but usually the dress-maker was employed, and her father paid the bill. He gave her the privilege of buying in three stores, and any thing she wished for, so when she saw an opportunity she would slip some thing along for Lily, and wished to do the same for her mother and Fanny, but they were too high minded to have dresses bought in any such way. Annie did not think it wrong to do so, for he would buy so many things for Frank's little girl, and besides she would say, "Lily is so good to me that I am sure she deserves all I can give her." But sometimes her father would be sociable for a little while, and would buy each of them a nice dress. Mrs. Lee was engaged in their old neighborhood to sew, and Fanny was always working, so Lily and Annie were left alone the greater portion of the time. 
               The house in which they lived stood near the center of the farm, and was surrounded by fields, which made it seem very lonely, but they stayed there night and day alone, yet every thing around them wore a look of perfect neatness. Some might think that as Annie was unable to walk, she could do but little, yet there was very little work but what she knew all about, and what she could not do herself, she had Lily so well trained that she would do it for her. It was surprising to see the alacrity with which she would move around on her low chair. In the summer time they took great interest in drying fruit, and their brother Frank's children would come frequently to molest them in their peaceful life. This was a source of great trouble to them, and they so disliked their rude, boisterous ways, that they would lock the door when they saw them coming. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               ARTHUR prevailed on them, and they made sale preparatory to moving West. Annie felt sorry to part with her father, though many a time did she feel mortified that her parents were living as they did, and wished that they could move far away, where it was not known; but did not think this was possible. Her father told her that if she went, she would be obliged to wear tow-and-linsey frocks, for he would never do any thing for her, and he was sure Arthur would never send her to school. Her mother still insisted that all would be right. Annie felt sorry that she could not be with both father and mother, like other children; but this could not be, and, like the young and happy, these sad thoughts soon gave way for others more bright. 
               Her Aunt Sadie came to visit them before they would leave. She was now a widow, with two children; the other two were quietly resting with their kind father in the church-yard. She was then living with her only daughter. Annie was but sixteen years old, yet she soon thought her Aunt Sadie's situation in life was so much happier pier than her mother, as she had but two children and they were so good. 
               The time came at last when she must bid farewell with her father. He sent for her to come over to her brother Frank's house; that he intended to start immediately for Maryland, to avoid seeing them start. Lily put her in the little wagon and drew her over; but her surly brother met them as they came near the house, and said: 
               "What brings you brats here?" 
               Lily burst into tears, but Annie indignantly replied, "Not to see you, sir." 
               His wife rebuked him for speaking so harshly to the children, but was answered only by angry words, too rude for repetition. 
               It was a touching scene to see that father parting from his afflicted child, never more to meet her in this world, and feel, as he did, that she had no one to support her. He grieved also at parting with Lily, for he loved her, too, as every one must who saw her, for she was, as Annie would say, an angel of goodness. Mr. Lee affectionately kissed her, then turned to Annie, gave her quite a lot of spending money, and told her to divide with Lily. This needed no telling, for she would have done so at any rate, but yet was cheered to hear him say so. Sadly he then placed his dear child in the wagon, saying, as he did so, that he would much rather put her in her little coffin, for he then would know where she was and how she was taken care of. Wretched man! he himself was the cause of all this trouble. He had separated himself from his family, and made desolate his home enjoyments. Annie and Lily started home, and Mr. Lee accompanied them a little way. The moon-pale orb! was wending its way through a host of shining gems, all keeping vigilance over the scenes on earth-over their melancholy journey homeward. Soon they came within sight of home, and the Doctor stooped down, kissed his child, then sorrowfully turned away. The children gazed after until they could see him no more, then Lily said: "And will we never see grandpapa any more?" Annie could not answer, but, they both wept bitterly. And this was the last time Annie ever saw her heart-broken and erring father, for he had brought deep sorrow upon himself by not controlling his temper. 
               Annie went home sorrowful. She could never after think of that evening without shedding tears. But ere she was long at home, she was joking with her aunt and laughing merrily as ever. Her aunt told her that she believed she could laugh and cry at the same time. 
                
               Annie replied: "I never intend to grow sad like mother, nor have so much trouble that I cannot laugh it away." 
               Poor child! little did she know what sorrows were in store for her. One day Lily was sent on an errand to her uncle's, and her grandfather was still there. He gave her a bottle with a horse and wagon on it, and told her to give it to Annie, and tell her that the horse and wagon was to represent her traveling to Ohio. This she kept as a sacred gift. When her aunt left, she went, with her mother and Lily, to see her sister Prudence; and while there her mother was taken very ill with a pain in her side, and for weeks her life was despaired of. This was a dark shade thrown over Annie, for it always grieved her to see her mother sick. She would frequently say, "Mother, are you better?" or, "Were you ever so ill before?" She imagined that if her mother had ever been so ill, she would get well again. 
               She was not like so many children we find, who are perfectly indifferent as to whether their mothers would die or not, and would see them drop dead at their work without lending a helping hand; and even when they do any favor for them, it is done so reluctantly that they certainly feel more comfortable to do the work themselves. But I often think that if children would lighten the burthens of their mothers more, they would the longer be permitted to have them. 
               It was a lovely morning in the fall of 1840, that they were then, after this long delay, ready to start for Ohio. A great many of their neighbors come in to see them start. Mrs. Lee was not quite well yet, and thus the whole care rested on Fanny; yet they concluded to undertake the journey. Lily and Annie were in high glee with the thoughts of going, though they regretted leaving their kind neighbors. They went to Mrs. Lee's sisters, where they were to meet an old gentleman and his two children, who were going to Ohio on a visit to some relatives. And Mrs. Lee wished to go with them, as she thought it almost impossible to cross the mountains alone. Fanny saw no danger, but to please her mother she went. 
               Annie's aunt treated them all very well except her little namesake; though she felt a little ashamed to have it known that her sister was a grass widow, as she was very aristocratic. But little Annie had never been particularly attached to her, for she thought her aunt always felt herself superior to them on account of their father not doing very well; at any rate Annie was not on very friendly terms with her, as she had once knit a pair of long stockings for her uncle and carried them to him; then, childlike, expected some applause for her work as it had been quite a little job, and she had-worked at them with her little fingers until they were all swollen. When she gave them to her aunt, she took them coolly out of her hand and laid them away, without so much as saying a word about the work, but bought Annie a comb, for which she paid twenty-five cents, and told her that was for knitting the stockings. Imagine Annie's indignation. She took the comb, broke it in two pieces and flung it across the room, saying, as she did so, that she did not go out knitting. Had her aunt given the comb as a gift, then taken the stockings, she would not have been so wrathful; but the haughty manner in which she gave it was too much for Annie's pride. She imagined that her aunt thought her so needy that she would be willing to accept any thing she pleased to give her. Such treatment was the cause of Annie's great dislike to her aunt, and after her Aunt Nancy died (who lived with her Aunt Annie), she did not care about going there. Though this was their last visit to Mrs. Wright, she treated Annie very disrespectfully. She had a daughter about the age of Annie, who made a party the evening they were with them. Mrs. W-- told her daughter, in the evening, that she must not invite her crippled cousin into the parlor. This so highly offended the young gentleman and lady who were traveling with them, that they would not go in when invited. Mrs. W-- saw that her conduct was censured, therefore invited Annie in with them, but Annie was of too independent nature to submit to any such deception; and poor Mary had very little comfort with her party. The old gentleman made great ado about the manner in which Mrs. W-- lived. Mrs. Lee always lived neat and clean, but her sister lived amid all the luxuries that wealth can afford. "What a contrast between the two sisters," he would say. This gave Mrs. Lee to feel more keenly her situation. 
               The next morning they started. Mrs. Lee was yet very weak, but the prospect of getting to a land where they would earn their living easier bore her up. For one day they traveled on at a rapid pace. They had a good horse, but their wagon was heavily loaded, which made it more difficult to travel; and, on the second day, Fanny observed that if they did not go more moderately they would lose their horse. So she proposed to let their company go on, as they did not have so much of a load and could travel more speedily. Her mother was perfectly frightened at the idea of losing their company; but before they arrived at a place to stay over night, the horse staggered and refused to go. They urged on the poor animal until they came to a sort of country tavern, which did not look very inviting, but the horse refused to go any farther, and they were obliged to take lodging for the night. It was a rainy, dreary evening, and the gloomy appearance of every thing around them added more to their unenviable situation. Then they were far from home, just about to enter the mountains, and, to all appearance, their horse would die. 
               A company of drovers had stopped there, on their return from the east, who took quite an interest in having the horse get well, and told Mrs. Lee that they would not leave until the horse was well, or she had another one. By this time she consented to have their companions go on. Fanny and little Annie were not in the least discouraged. They felt sorry that the horse should die, but felt more sorry that it was driven to death. But, thanks to a kind and heavenly father, the horse became better. The men who were there labored all night with it, and in the morning told Mrs. Lee that if they would drive slowly they might pursue their journey. Then, bidding their company adieu and rendering many thanks to their kind benefactors, they started on. It seemed ed a long and tedious journey to Mrs. Lee, but to Annie and Lily it was very pleasant. 
               There was then quite an excitement in political affairs. The gay flags were hoisted, and all seemed commotion. Annie, from her earliest childhood, had taken great interest in such things, and, as soon as she could read, began to peruse the history of her country. This fall, particularly, she felt a lively interest in the election. Her aptness to engage in conversation, and, being so small, attracted the attention of all around her. Her mirthful spirits made the journey more pleasant. As for Lily, she saw every object of interest, and never seemed to tire in the least. Her grandmother was obliged to walk to walk much of the time, as her side became more painful when riding. Lily would walk with her sometimes, skipping along by her side, sometimes Climbing the fence, and walking on the top, and climbing down again, in search of mountain berries. In this way they crossed the mountain. And when they were passing along a narrow path, nine miles in length, which lies along the Ohio river, just in the dusk of the evening, they espied, in front of them, a steamboat lodged along the banks of the river, and the men were throwing off the load. Their horse, as they thought, was perfectly safe; but, at the sight of the fire, it began to rear and plunge. There was no one then in the wagon but Annie, and she was driving. Fanny ran quickly and caught him by the rein. He finally became so desperate that Annie feared her sister would be trod beneath his feet; so she told her to let him run. But Fanny saw that he was not inclined to run, but would probably back the wagon down into the river. Annie was in the wagon, and how to get her out they were at a loss to know. Fanny then went to his head and clasped the bridle-blinds tightly over his eyes. This pacified him until the boat started. They then went on until they came to a neat, little inn by the way. Here they took lodging for the night, and were treated with great hospitality. The weather being very inclement, they were obliged to remain here several days, and in that time Annie was highly pleased with Miss Hays, the landlord's daughter, a sweet girl of eighteen. She took quite a fancy to Annie, carried he around, and tried various ways to amuse her. Miss Hays was a beautiful singer, and Annie learned a great many songs on the election. 
               The third day they parted from their kind friends here, with many good wishes. They promised to write, but as yet Annie could not write, but was depending on others to write her letters. So her young friend was neglected, but not forgotten; for many times did she long to know if her friend was still living, and hope that she might one day meet her. But, ah! would she recognize in this careworn, depressed form the merry, laughing child she so loved to be with? Perhaps time has wrought a change in her, but may it not be so sad a change as that of poor, little Annie. For one so good, so pure as her, our wish would be to have her path lie along the bright side of life's dreary road. 
               After traveling eight long weeks, Mrs. Lee and her little company came in sight of Wooster, where Arthur met them and conducted them to Mr. Stevens', as he was then staying with his sister Mattie. As they traveled along Arthur was very busy picturing Mattie's pleasant home to his mother and sisters. It was quite dark when they reached Mattie's, and they had no opportunity of seeing how she lived. But Annie was suspicious that Arthur had misrepresented things, and she longed for morning. Her mother and Fanny were more anxious about resting, for they were weary. The following morning, early, Annie was on the lookout, as she supposed things did not meet her fancy. 
               "Dear me!" she said to Lily, "I wonder if Arthur calls this a nice place, where he will get the ugly ones! I am sure I do not wish to see them. Nothing but trees to be seen-and trees even in the open fields. If I am to live in such a place, I hope I may not live long." 
               To all this Lily made no reply, for she did not often speak her mind. But as soon as Annie saw Arthur, she said: 
               "Is this the place you call so beautiful? If I would have known this, I should never have come out here." 
               Arthur told her that he did not intend that she should remain there, for in a week or two they would go farther west to a town called Olivesburg, where she could go to school. 
               This, in a measure, satisfied her, yet she felt a touch of home-sickness. Her mother and Fanny seemed to be well pleased, for Arthur was indeed a changed boy, and, I believe, a true follower of Christ; but he had united himself with what is now denominated the Church of God, and in which, at that time, was collected a class of members puffed up with bigotry and superstition. Of this Arthur partook, and he was none the pleasanter for it. 
               According to promise, they started for Olivesburg. On the way Annie thought they certainly would never get through the mud. The roads were almost impassable. They did not quite get there that evening; so they stopped over night with a friend of Arthur's, with whom he was in partnership in a cabinet shop, by the name of Miller. 
               The next morning they made their way through the mud to the famous town. It was almost impossible to find two good houses in it. The streets were so muddy as to be almost impossible to travel through the place. There were two small stores in the place, and if you wished to get anything of any amount you would be obliged to go some where else. Where Annie came from was equally as far distant from good stores, but the roads were usually better than here. They moved in a house with another family. It was a low, frame building, which was afterwards repaired for a hotel. They had but one room, and that served for kitchen, bed-room, and parlor, and were kept warm by a log fire. Arthur provided well for the house, and seemed to be doing well in the shop. But Annie was not satisfied. She had never been accustomed to living in such a place, and, she said, never would be; for she would write to her father, and he would take her back to him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE winter after they arrived in 0-- was very open, and, the consequence was, a great deal of sickness. Annie began to fear that if it continued much longer there would be few left alive. As the place she came from was a very healthy part of the country, it was seldom that any young person was known to die; and if the neighborhood was visited by death, it struck horror to the hearts of all. But the people in Ohio did not seem to be affected, though old and young were falling thick in death's embrace, around them. 
               Arthur promised to send Annie to school, but Lily was not able to carry her, and, if she even had a wagon, it would be impossible for any one to drag it through the mud. Lily started after a while, and thought she would try to carry Annie; but it was impossible for her to carry her such a distance. Thus the winter passed dreary enough for Annie. Fannie was homesick, too; but she could attend church, and divert her mind from thoughts of home. Not so with Annie. She must stay in the house from morning ing until night, with nothing to banish the thoughts of home from her mind. The young people were very kind to herd came often to cheer her drooping spirits; but they were no comfort to her, and she was lonely still. Yet she was all mirth and gayety when in company, always making sport for all, and no one, by her appearance, could judge that she was suffering from that mental agony, so little observed, yet worse by far in its nature than other diseases more visible. She ate but little, and at last grew so thin and pale that all around her remarked it. Arthur tried to be kind to her, but did not appear to understand how to be. He never thought he ought to take her out for recreation. Sometimes, when Fanny was in a special good humor, she would take her out with Lily and her, (for Lily never wished to go out without her), but, the greater part of the time, she would stay with Annie. Then her mother, or Fanny, as she called her, would complain that she was too much confined by her, and frequently had something to tell Annie about what others would say about it. Thus Annie began to think that all people did was to make remarks about her, and of course she would be more lonely, yet tried to appear happy. 
               In the spring they removed to a better house, and were near the, school. Lily again wished Annie to go to the school; but she did not have a little wagon, and there was no one to carry her. Arthur might have done so sometimes, but thought it rather a disgrace. He was then trying to be a Christian, but, like too many others, did not seem to understand his duty as a Christian to the afflicted. He imagined that his duty consisted in going to church, supporting the preacher, and wearing plain clothing. 
               Annie always possessed particular taste in dress, but he would not allow her to make her clothing as other young people. She had beautiful hair, of a light chestnut color, which she took great pride in curling. But this Arthur did not allow; he said she must comb it plain. This so raised Annie's spunk that she had it cut short, and never after wore her hair long. All, this time she got to school but little, and Arthur did not see that it was his duty to take her. The school mistress came sometimes and assisted Lily to take her to school, but this displeased Fanny, as she thought it injurious to Lily's health to carry her, and then Anne could not go at all. Had she been provided with a little wagon, the scholars might have taken her there, and thus she might have become a bright scholar. One day she overheard them saying that it would be a blessing if the Lord would take Annie away. From this time she began to contrive some means of earning a livelihood for herself, as she entertained no hopes of obtaining the money that was intended for her. 
               She could not write herself, but employed Mrs. Garland, whom she had taken a fancy to. She always wrote uncomplainingly to her father, and made every thing bright as possible through all her sorrows, and made a resolution to do for herself. She loved fine dress, and as yet had never known a lack of clothes. Fanny told her that she would not always dress as now. 
               "Yes," replied Annie, "I will." She never felt like being put down in any thing she took a notion of; and knew that when the money was all spent her father had given her, she would get no more for spending money, or for paying letters. Her friend, Mrs. Garland, wrote a great many of her letters, but when any special letters were to be sent off, Lily would do the writing. The idea came into her head that she could knit, so with her loving companion-Lily-she started to Mrs. Bulkley, the merchant's wife in the place, and requested her to give her some knitting to do, as she wished to purchase a pink calico dress, for the girls were all having pink calico dresses. She did not alone care for the dress, but wanted to let folks see that she could earn her own clothes. This kind lady was so well pleased with the manner in which she spoke, that she said she would give her all the cotton yarn she wished for, if her mother would double and twist it for her. Annie then went home, obtained her mother's consent, and at the knitting she went, and it was not long until the dress was earned. Mrs. Bulkley cut it out and assisted her in making it. She had just basted the ruffles on the bosom, which was then the style, when Arthur came in, and thinking it his duty to see that it was made plain, roughly tore them off. This only aggravated Annie the more, and she told him that Mrs. Bulkley did not believe in being tyrannically dealt with like he dealt with her. She then procured some more of the same material and sewed ruffles on it so that she herself was ashamed to wear it. But, however, she did wear it a few times, to let her tyrannical brother see she would wear what she had a mind to, for had he dealt more kindly with her, she would have been more apt to comply, but she could not endure the idea of being forced into subjection. In a short time she had knitting sent her from almost every family in town. She herself needed nothing but a fine bonnet and postage money, but it was a pleasure to get things for Lily, to repay her untiring kindness. In this way she purchased as neat and tasty bonnets as were to be seen any where, besides other articles of dress. She now began to think that she would be able to earn her own living. 
               Arthur still was exceedingly pious, contributing a great deal for the support of the church, entertaining the ministers, feeding their horses, and, of course, was good brother Lee. Every thing has an end, and so it was here. His business was neglected; he became involved, and finally broke up. Then was his friends' sincerity tested. Those who in prosperity grasped his hand so warmly and called him brother, no longer thought of him as brother, but talked freely of his cheating his creditors; and the time he most needed the consolation of his spiritual advisers, they passed him disdainfully by. His mother and Annie had often warned him of this; but, man-like, he knew every thing best, and did not see the danger until it came upon him. His mother and sisters had brought a good supply of dishes, table-cloths and bedding, but through constant wear they were almost worn out. To make the matter still worse, he sold out to an unprincipled fellow by the name of Ayres, who was foreman in the shop, and who was the cause of it all, and who at last cheated him out of almost every thing. Ayres and his work hand were to board with Arthur. Mrs. Lee and Fanny were to do the work, but Fanny said she would remain at home no longer, and Mrs. Lee did not want the charge of a boarding-house on her mind, so Annie proposed to take the management of the house upon herself if Fanny would allow her to have Lily. With all Arthur's sternness with Annie, he was kind to his mother. When he was with her his health became very much impaired, and he came to the conclusion to prepare himself to teach school, although at that time he was unable to walk without the aid of crutches. 
               Mrs. Lee told him that if he would get her a house and lot, she might take charge of the house. Fanny then went to learn the tailor trade, and Annie took the care of the house. She would go through every room almost as smart as one who had the use of her feet, and was up stairs, down, and in the cellar, to see to every thing. She had a place prepared that she could do the dish-washing, prepare the victuals for cooking, then stay by the fire and watch them, while Lily would do the running work. In this manner they worked along for one year. Annie engaged to make shirts for the boys in the shop, but inexperienced as she was, it was rather a difficult task for her to undertake. Her mother would instruct her when at home, but she would stay for weeks at Mrs. Stevens'; and even the first one Annie undertook to make, her mother did not instruct her without reluctance, as she thought Annie was not experienced enough in sewing to do such work. But Annie was not to be put off in any such way, and she told her mother then she would go at it herself, and so she did. Then when her mother saw her determination, she helped her through with the job. So, with knitting and sewing, she earned a great many dollars; besides, she and Lily together managed the house-work. Annie would wash, and assist at every thing that was to be done, but was obliged to stay up at light to sew. In this way she bought books, for Arthur, when he saw her industry, began to show her some kindness before he went away to teach. That summer they moved to the country, in the house with Mrs. Miller, whose husband was away most of the time, working at the carpenter trade, and she did not like being alone so much. 
               Annie had taken cold the winter before, while he had the measles, and her health was still very delicate. She was sitting in the kitchen, washing, when she first took the measles. It was a bitter cold day, and every drop of water that fell on the floor was frozen instantly, and she became very sick, that for a while her life was in danger. So with bad health, and almost out of a home, no wonder, then, that she at times felt melancholy. Fanny was sewing for seventy-five cents a week, as that was the wages of the best sewers those days. Lily was staying in town with a lady and going to school, but was not contented away from Annie, she so well loved her home, and afterwards remarked that the summer she spent there was a very lonely one to her, though she made it known to no one at the time. Again, they rented a house in Olivesburg. Lily went to school, and Annie took in sewing and knitting. Mrs. Lee assisted when there, but the prospects grew so dark, and she became so fretful, that Annie would persuade her to go and visit some of her friends. Fanny still sewed around in families, and Annie was left alone most of the time during the day. She did not complain; she was too proud to complain, yet they kept every thing very neat, and lived comfortably. 
               Mrs. B-- had taken great pains to teach Annie embroidery and dress-making, which now came very good to her. Her father, true to his word, had sent nothing for her support yet. Frank's daughter commenced to correspond with her, and was writing such beautiful letters that she almost wished her 
                     neice
                     niece
                   was out, as she thought surely she must be a sweet girl. Arthur was teaching in R--, and moved the family there, but Fanny was doing so well near Ashland, and now she was getting high wages, that she did not go with them, though her sufferings were extreme as she sewed at different places; for from her childhood she had been afflicted with inflammatory rheumatism, and being in other people's houses, the doors would be thrown open on her, and she would take cold; then that painful disease would set in. But yet she must earn what she could. 
               In R-- they again seemed to prosper, but poor Annie was lonely. She had been treated kindly by the young people of O-, and had become very much attached to them, but now she was again among strangers, and living almost out of town, where she could see but little, and her brother would not go to the trouble to take her out. He seemed to think that as God had afflicted her, if she had a living that was all that was necessary, if she did strive to procure it herself. But poor Lily could not endure the idea of going to church and Sabbath-school, time after time, and leaving Annie alone. This did not trouble Arthur, though he was making a high profession of religion at the time. True, Annie did not, at that time, care about going, except for pastime, but he was not taking the right way to have her go for any other purpose. When Lily heard any thing that she thought would be interesting to her poor little aunt, she would store it up in her memory until she came home, to tell her all about it. 
               The Methodists held a protracted meeting there, which grew very lively; and one evening Lily insisted on Annie to go, and engaged a young lady to assist her in taking her there; so they together carried her there, and, just as they were starting home, a young man stepped up and asked her if she would allow him to carry her, as the roads were very bad. She accepted the kind offer, as she well knew that the girls were scarcely able to carry her. But when she came home her brother was highly offended, and told her that he would permit no such work about the house; that it was only a plot to get that rascal to go home with Lily. Annie had no such thoughts; but he was a nice-appearing young man, and a member of the church, and her object alone was to take the burthen off the girls. But this ungrateful talk from her brother was more than she could endure when she saw Lily weeping. She said that she knew nothing about his character, but she knew he had a better heart than her brother, for he himself would see Lily carry her until she would drop down before he would lend a helping hand. 
               "But," says Arthur, "all he cared about you was to have an opportunity to wait on Lily-and that shall never be." 
               "Oh," replied Annie, "I know you are afraid I will get any one to care for me. I know there is no one who particularly cares for me; but I hope there are some who pity me in my loneliness more than you do. Yes, I know Lily does." 
               Then her anger gave way to sadness, and she burst into tears. A young friend who came in with Arthur thought this rather much for him to say to his sister, and remarked that if her brother did not make provision for her to go, he had no right to say one word about how she went. He said he saw that she was naturally of a lively disposition, and she must certainly lead a very lonely life to be confined so in the house; then, turning to Arthur, said: "Brother Lee, I came here for the purpose of taking her to meeting myself. We should do all in our power to make her life pleasant." 
               Annie looked up, in the. midst of her tears, and said: "The children of the devil, as they call them, had done more for her than those sanctified professors of religion-for she had been taken to more parties and other places of amusement than to the house of God. She was truly grateful to this kind friend for this offer, but was too much irritated to go, the next morning, to church." 
               After all that was said about the young man who carried her home, she found that the only trouble was that he was not wealthy, though he was in good standing in the church, and a true follower of Christ, as you will be led to believe when you know more of him. 
               Annie went no more to church that winter, except one night, a neighbor woman, whom Lily engaged, came there with her husband, and took her in a buggy to church; for, after all that was said, her brother knew his business best, and would do nothing for her. When they were going to school at Spring Creek he would occasionally carry her there, but never did it willingly, and she never appreciated such favors. 
               In the spring they moved more into the centre of the town, near a family whose name was Whittinger, where there were quite a number of girls, who were very kind to Annie. They would assist Lily to take her to church, for the report was now public that Arthur was so displeased about young Hill taking her home that the gentlemen were all timorous about offering any such favors. 
               True to Arthur's predictions, Mr. Hill had taken quite a fancy to Lily, and conducted her home from church, which none but Annie knew, and she said nothing about it, for she thought well of his appearance, and his kindness to her could not but win her esteem; though she did object to his Methodist faith, for her father always taught her that they were a dreadful people. But when Arthur came to know of their correspondence, he positively forbid it, and even sent his nephew (a son of Frank's) after Lily to see who was with her. Well would it then have been had he had Annie to deal with; but the meek, submissive Lily mildly told Mr. Hill that she dare not allow him to walk with her. Annie did not wish to have Lily marry him, for she, too, was a little high-minded, and desired to have Lily united to one who could support her better than he could; but, then, he was respectable-and there was not much prospect of them being married; besides, she did not think because two persons looked at each other they were in love, or likely to get married. 
               Arthur was doing well, and provided well for the house; but he never saw any danger of breaking down, and, when he was doing well, he never looked far into the future. He had a very large school, and had taken extra scholars, for which he received extra wages. Yet, as usual, he kept a free house of entertainment, and, the consequence was, he became a bankrupt in business the second time. 
               By this time Annie was quite active at making shirts, and the young men of the place all came there to engage her to do their sewing, partly through sympathy, and partly because they preferred her work. But they had not been accustomed to paying very high prices for work, and she did not usually put a very high price on her work. She was then receiving but seventy-five cents for making a shirt with one hundred and twenty rows of stitching on the bosom, as it was then the style to have the bosom all laid with small plaits, all neatly stitched. This seemed like small wages, but Annie and her mother, by working almost day and night, did tolerably well; and many a night passed with Annie at her needle, though she would not allow Lily or her mother to do the same, for she was always fearful of injuring Lily's health. But, with all her being so smashed up, she could endure the loss of sleep better than either of them. Lily went to school, and worked morning and evening at home. 
               Arthur went from this place to Plymouth, and engaged there as teacher in the high school. He became acquainted with a traveling dentist there, who persuaded him to learn the business. Arthur was very much fascinated by the appearance of this strange gentleman, as that was one of his greatest failings, to see none but the gilded side of anything until he plunged into ruin. He went immediately home, told his mother of the generous offer he had, that the man who had made the offer was such a very fine man, and the landlord would give them his team and patent right to take along. He also said his eyes were about given out in teaching, as he was obliged to study so much after night to keep ahead of his scholars. As his reputation for a teacher was rather high, the students came from far and near to him, and some equally as far. advanced as he was. But he possessed a comprehending mind, and reviewed all the different lessons before recitations, and managed to keep a little ahead of them; but it was evident that he was fast breaking down by over-taxing his mind. So, with this in view, he resigned his situation as teacher, and came home to prepare his mother's winter wood. While he was at home this wonderful stranger came to see him; and the moment Annie's eyes rested on Mr. McBride, as Arthur called him, she passed her opinion about him, and again warned Arthur to beware. She told him that if he went with that man he certainly would rue it, for there was something in his eye which was portentious of evil, and very likely he would run away with both team and patent rights, and leave Arthur to pay for them. But her words were not heeded, and he went with the man; but they were gone but a short time until he tried to run away with the team, forged notes on Arthur, and other little actions he was guilty of, too numerous to mention. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               IN the meantime, Annie, through hard labor and exposure, was taken ill with the lung fever, which came near being her death. They would have suffered then, but Fanny had been doing well, and, when she heard of Annie's sickness, she procured a horse, and went home, and again took charge of the affairs. Arthur had sent money home for a little while after he left, but finally left off writing entirely. But Fanny, with the help of Annie, after she got better, managed to keep up appearances pretty well. The young folks of the place took great notice of Annie, and, being fond of company, she usually had as much young company as any one in the place, and, that must be of the best quality, for she would have none other-but all exerted every means to make her happy. Though Mr. Hill did not pay his attentions to Lily, he always contrived some way to get Annie to church, when she would go; and, ere long, the young people were all equally attentive to her. 
               Annie's father had sent her several lots of clothing, and there were few who could rival her and Lily in dress. Had there then been no interference terference, they would have enjoyed themselves extremely well. Lily thought best to learn a trade of some kind, and her attention was directed to the millinery business, which Annie regretted very much; but she went, and was to be gone three months. This was a long and lonely three months to Annie, though all around her endeavored to make her happy. 
               One morning, as Annie and her mother were breakfasting, they were interrupted by a young gentleman, who said he wished to have some shirts made. He was an entire stranger, and, at first sight, seemed to be a gentleman. His eyes were blue, and rather of a mild expression. His head was adorned with beautiful hair, of a dark auburn color, and hung in graceful ringlets. He showed great kindness to Annie; and, notwithstanding the many misdeeds which were afterwards made public, he seemed to possess a kind heart. 
               At last Lily came home, but was not long home until Annie observed that he was somewhat attracted to her, yet she uttered no objection, though she thought Lily had better be a little careful, as he was a stranger. Lily was Annie's only comfort in the world. She loved her even better than her own self, and wished to see her doing well; but what are earthly joys. 
                
               Almost every sweet we enjoy brings some bitter pang; so it was with poor Annie. She loved Lily, and the interest she took in her was made evil of. 
               One evening after tea they were quietly seated at their sewing, when they were aroused by a rap at the door. Lily arose and opened it, when a young lady and gentleman entered. They inquired if they could remain all night; but Annie was not long in detecting who the stranger was. Lily and her mother were just about to tell them that they were not prepared to keep strangers, when Annie said, "Yes, mother, they can stay, for the lady is Frank's Mary!" 
               They were truly glad to see her, but in a short time they began to fear that her coming would not bring them much pleasure. The young man that brought her there was Mr. Stevens' cousin. He was rather a gay young man, and her conduct with him was rather unruly. Annie undertook to talk to her: she told her that unless she conducted herself differently, that she would be talked about. 
               From that time she set herself to work planting a revenge. She first exerted all her powers o turn Lily's heart against Annie; but it did lot stop here. She carried news to Fanny-base falsehoods-and all because she did not want conduct in the house that would be a disgrace to herself and Lily. 
               Frank moved to Ohio, and settled in Wayne county. They first went to Mr. Stevens' where Mary made her home a few days, but conducted herself in such a rude manner as to merit the displeasure of Mrs. S--, and was finally forbidden the house, from whence she went to her grandmother's, where she thought to rule the entire house. She treated her grandmother very disrespectfully, yet her grandmother would not have anything said about her. Mary had set her heart for the downfall of Lily, and so artful was she that she deceived every one about her except her aunt Mattie and Annie. 
               When Mrs. Lee heard that Frank was in Wayne county, she went to visit him, but Annie too well remembered his former treatment towards her for her to visit him, and she never would humble herself enough to go near him. While Mrs. Lee was gone, Mary imagined that she was now at liberty, and kept a constant coming and going among her associates, and more especially among those of the opposite sex. Annie had the chills, and of course, with such confusion, felt just as miserable as any one could; and further, they accomplished no work. Annie saw that it was impossible for them to live in this way, and what was much worse, their characters would be injured, which she valued more than silver or gold. They had passed thus far through the world with unstained characters, and she desired ever to be able to live so; but she saw that Mary was using her utmost endeavors to exercise influence over Lily that she would despise her little aunt. Yet withal she feigned kindness to Annie, and pretended to sympathize with her, but all the time would have some thing to say about what Mrs. Johnson was saying. Mary told Annie that Mrs. Johnson had remarked that she would take Lily away from there if she would be obliged to take Annie to the poor-house; at the same time Mrs. Johnson was telling Annie that she thought it rather hard that Annie should labor and keep that good-for-nothing, as she called Mary-that it would disgrace Lily the way things were going. Annie knew this to be true, but she did not thank her for her deceitful interference, for she knew that all the while she was helping Mary carry out her plans, for what reason she knew not. 
               Annie's chills settled on her lungs, and for a while the physician, and all who saw her, thought her time on earth was short, yet she kept at work, for she saw no other way to get along. Lily had a milliner shop, and Annie helped her superintend tend it, as she took in girls to learn the trade. Annie also took in dress and shirt making. 
               We will now lift the curtain, and take a peep behind, and see who made the slave of Lily. Mary would bring company there for her to wait on, and dress and flirt round and let Lily do all her washing, and never as much as carried a pail of water or cooked a meal. While Lily was at hard work one day, Mary brought her clothes out to be washed. Annie went out to the kitchen on her chair, took the clothes, flung them out of the door, saying as she did so, "Let her do her own washing, as she is so concerned about you being made a slave of. If I could walk, I would not ask you to wait on me as you do on her." 
               Mary was very much insulted, and made good capital out of this, for the purpose of getting Fanny to take Lily away, and strange to say, she accomplished her design. Annie felt sad, for she knew her helplessness. She thought if she had her peace made with God, that it would be sweet to leave the world, as there appeared to be no pleasure in it for her. 
               The strange gentleman still paid his addresses to Lily, but he began to keep company which did not altogether suit Annie, and Lily did not feel perfectly at ease about it, still her mother could see no fault in him. Annie finally became acquainted with the cause of his being away from home, through a cousin of his, who told her that he wickedly seduced a young, lady. Then his father sent him out to his uncle's. This troubled Annie very much, though it was not unexpected. She therefore requested Lily to tell him of it, but Fanny did not believe it, therefore objected to her telling him, but her grandmother was determined she should. Annie did not believe in carrying things to extremes, but she told Lily if he could not clear himself of the accusation, she had better abandon his company forever, for she did not believe in encouraging such young men, no difference what their families and fortunes were. 
               Frank moved to Michigan, and went right by his poor old mother and afflicted sister with about twenty thousand dollars in his pocket, one thousand of which justly belonged to Annie, and never gave them one cent. 
               Annie's health still continued to decline, and she became convicted of her sins. The Methodists again held a protracted meeting there, and as usual, the young people would have Annie go whenever the weather and her health would permit. The meeting continued nine weeks, and a great number were happily converted to God. Annie Lee was one of that number. Long did she struggle between doubt and fear, but when the glorious light broke forth, it was so brilliant that nothing could ever lessen her confidence in divine grace. Pen can not describe her joy and peace on that memorable night. She wondered then that she had ever been given to despondency; for she saw that God had all the time been working for her good, though she knew it not until her heart was changed. But now she thanked her heavenly father for her afflictions, and looked upon them as among her greatest blessings, for she knew that her heart was proud, but through many afflictions it had been humbled, and drawn to accept the offer of divine grace. She entertained malice toward no one, and felt an interest in the welfare of all, even those who had so cruelly mistreated her. 
               The minister in charge was the Rev. O. Burgess, and a true laborer in the Lord's vineyard. Had we more such laborers we would see more true conversions. When he found an opportunity to speak to any one on the subject of religion, he was sure not to leave them until he knew how matters stood betwixt them and their creator. 
               Here again was work for Mary, and she set herself to work diligently. She told Fanny that this was a mere pretence of Annie's-that she could in this way probably keep Lily with her; but poor Annie did not then even know that Lily was to be taken away. The members of the church treated her with all tenderness, and she never was absent one day from preaching, class-meeting, prayer-meeting, or Sabbath-school. Her young friends always made it their business to see that she would get to church, and four young men especially who belonged to that class, always saw that she had a way to go. Her friend, Mr. Whittinger, was very good to her, indeed like a father, and his daughters were as sisters to her. "Oh, happy days!" she often said, "my thoughts never revert to them without bringing feelings both melancholy and joyful-melancholy that those heavenly scenes so soon were to end; but joyful to think that the same God reigns now as then to bless." 
               Annie's health was still declining, and to all appearance she would become unable to earn her own living; and again she was reminded that there was no more dependence to be put in relatives than strangers. 
               Fanny came home and told her that it was the prevailing opinion of all that she was doing very wrong in leaving Lily there to be a waiter for her mother and sister. She had always been a slave for the family, and did not wish her child to do the same. Annie was very sad when she heard this, but felt that, though the whole world should forsake her, the Lord would be her friend, and he could heal all her wounds. This thought made her happy, and her favorite theme was: 
               
                   
                     Let the world despise and leave me, 
                     They have left. my Saviour, too; 
                     Human hopes and looks deceive me- 
                     
                        Thou art not like them, untrue. 
                     And while thou shalt smile upon me, 
                     God of Wisdom, Love, and Might, 
                     Friends may hate and foes may scorn me- 
                     Show thy face, and all is right. 
                  
                
               Fanny told her that they might live as they had been living till fall, then she and Lily would get a room and go live by themselves; for as long as she would do she saw she might, for she saw that Arthur was bound that he would do no more. Annie knew that this was true, but still she thought that Fanny would have done as she had been doing, for she had never forsook them before; but Mollie had told her that her grandmother and Annie made such a waiter of Lily, and made her think that she was doing her duty; she was not much at home to see for herself, and Mary had succeeded in having Lily think that she would be better off if she left them. They never appeared to see that Annie loved Lily, and that all she said and done she meant for her good-there was nothing too much for Annie to do for her-but Miss Mollie had an object in view, which will be seen as you go with me through this sad narrative. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               IT was early in the evening, and Annie seated herself in the door alone. She felt very sad, yet her thoughts were fixed on the goodness of God, for she knew that he was her all. As she sat there in deep meditation, her sister Mattie rode up; and when she saw Annie's poor wasted form she wept, for she knew how her crippled sister was imposed upon. She had come to tell Annie that there had been a young man out from Pennsylvania, who said that her father thought very hard of her for not writing and thanking him for the money he had sent her with Frank's wife. 
               This was the first Annie knew of any money being sent to her. She did know that Mary had plenty of money; but did not know that she was using the money her own dear father had sent to her. Now the secret was out. Mary's mother had given her the money intended for Annie; for even Frank himself wondered where she was getting so much money, as he said he never gave her any, but it was a hidden mystery between her mother and her that he was unable to solve. 
               This proved to Annie why Mary had wanted her shut up in the poor-house. She thought then the secret of her crime would remain in secret. Annie again felt her blood rise, for she was too weak to bear the cruel wrongs that were inflicted upon her. Her physician had prohibited her going to a church, and they appointed a prayer-meeting there. It was indeed a sweet relief to poor Annie to pour her soul's sorrows in her Saviour's ear, who alone could pity and relieve. Her sorrows were so deep and her appeal so touching to her heavenly Master, that almost all were affected to tears. Again she received an assurance that God's grace was sufficient for every trial; and she made a firm resolution that the few last days she was to be with Lily, should not be disturbed by that false plotter. 
               Mary had become acquainted with, and was on very intimate terms with a respectable young merchant in R--, who had formerly been a true friend to Annie; but, influenced by the alluring tongue and fascinating manners of Mary, he had been made to think that she was only a useless pest. So, when Mary came back, Annie made free to tell her that she could not remain there. She was very much insulted, and started directly over to this young man and laid in her complaint. In a few moments he had a conveyance rigged up to take her away. As he came in, Annie spoke very kindly to him, but received no answer. She felt herself slighted, yet did not think hard of him, for she knew that Mary had represented things very different from what they were. 
               They went to P--, some miles west of R--, where Annie had been making some previous arrangements to move. They stopped at the hotel; and Mary told the landlady that, if they took her Aunt Annie and grandmother there to board, they would certainly bring a sea of trouble on their heads; that Fanny was taking Lily away because she was made a slave of there. Also, that she had paid five dollars a week for boarding at her grandmother's, and finally was ordered from the house. But the landlady concluded, at least, to try them. 
               All this time Annie did not know with certainty where she was to go. Arthur would not answer her letters, and Frank would never do any thing for them. Had he merely given them what was justly their own, they would have had enough to support them without much trouble. But at last the agreement was made, and they were to go to Mr. W--'s hotel in P--, and the time came for Annie and Lily to part. Lily went up to P-- with the first load of goods. It made her feel sad, for she thought it seemed pretty hard to see them turned out of a home and removed to such a noisy place. The things were put in a large room on the first floor, for the house was not yet finished, and the room intended for them was not ready for them. It looked dreary enough to Lily. But her mother had shut her heart against them, and, when she came back, would not allow her to say any thing about the appearance of things before Annie where they were going. 
               The landlord came with his two horses and carriage to take Annie and her mother to their new home. Annie and Lily exchanged little tokens of remembrance, and, just as they were starting, Lily handed her a card on which were inscribed the following words: 
                      
                        "When forced to part from those we love, 
                        If sure to meet to-morrow, 
                        We still a pang of anguish prove, 
                        And feel a touch of sorrow. 
                        But who can paint the briny tears 
                        We shed, when thus we sever, 
                        If forced to part for months, for years, 
                        To part-perhaps forever!" 
                     
                  
                
               Annie received it with a smile, though tears were in her eyes, and sincerely thanked her. She was just recovering from a violent chill, and the fever had not left her. Yet with her usual pride she did not drop a tear, but laughed and talked all the way, as though there was no pang down deep in her heart, which was then almost breaking, while she affected to be, happy and well. But her thoughts wandered back to Lily, her classmates, and kind pastor whom she had left behind; his kind advice, and the prayer he offered up in her behalf, all-all were now fresh in her memory. Then her thoughts turned to God, and she prayed for his watchful care to guard her from the many temptations and sins which would fall around her in her new home. 
               Evening began to draw her sable mantle over the earth, and Annie welcomed the approaching darkness that her tears could then flow, unobserved by all except him who knew her sorrows. When they arrived at their journey's end Annie again assumed an air of gayety. The next morning all was confusion. The carpenter's hammer, and the noise and bustle of people (for they were then crowded with boarders), all tended to make their condition the more lonely. But Annie felt more for her mother than herself. They had for the last few years been permitted to live in quietness (except the little while which Mary had annoyed them), but now all was noise and stir. No wonder, then, that Annie's heart shrank back. She went to the table but not to eat, though every thing that could be wished for was there placed before her. She drank a little coffee, then left the table; and in this manner she lived week after week, almost without eating. The landlady would occasionally bring her in a little brandy and loaf-sugar, which was the means of keeping her alive. There was a large family to care for, all the bedding for an extensive hotel to be made, and this for their boarding; and she was obliged to take in extra sewing for their clothing; and many a night she worked the entire night through in order to earn a little besides their boarding. Her mother could make the tablecloths and sheets, while she sewed for the children. Yet she thanked God that she had even such a home. Often, through weakness-as she had the chills all that winter and summer-she was unable to rise; but soon as the chill would leave her she was up again at work. 
               She was recommended to, the church, with many charges from her beloved minister, that they should see to her. They at first called on her, but at the same time said that if she was religiously inclined she would not select such a place for boarding, never for once searching the real cause of her being there. Finally she was entirely neglected, which proved at once that this was a mere pretence on their part to excuse themselves in this way, and avoid taking care of her. The preacher in charge would sit for whole half days in the bar-room, talking and laughing with the worldly, but never thought that he was disgracing his calling, and neglecting his poor, little charge. Through their coldness to her, she did not connect herself with the church, though she attended regularly, for the boarders were very kind to her, and would take her there. The majority of them were Universalists, and did not think it would do any particular good; but they said God had blessed them so much more than her, and it was their duty to see that she was taken out. 
               Now, a word to those who profess to be followers of the meek and lowly Jesus. Pass not by the poor and afflicted, especially those who are trying to serve God, for, remember, a great responsibility rests upon you in that respect. When Annie had been there just two weeks, they had a party of little girls to sew carpet-rags. After they had been there a while, they began the song commencing- 
                      
                        "Should old acquaintance be forgot, 
                        And never brought to mind." 
                     
                  
                
               This brought back to Annie's memory her old sorrows, and she wished to steal away to some unfrequented room where she could be alone to weep. She then went to a room which was at the foot of the stairs, and discovered, when she opened the door, a man dressed in black pantaloons, and shirt sleeves, lying on a sofa, which stood but a little way from the entrance. She stopped and gazed on him a while. He did not move. His face was ashy pale, and almost covered with flies. She thought strange that he should so long remain in the same position, and, being of an inquisitive nature, began to move round to where she could get a better view of him. As. she came nearer she thought he was dead, and, laying her hand on his face, she was convinced that he was either dead or swooned away. A cold, clammy sweat was on his ghastly features, and it was evident that he was perfectly unconscious. She turned on her chair, and opened a door to admit fresh air; then managed somehow to get a pitcher containing water, which stood on the table, and dipped her handkerchief in the water; then taking a small vial out of her pocket, which contained hartshorn, and poured the contents on the handkerchief, and laid it round his mouth. She then quietly slipped to the side where she would be the least observed, and awaited the result. In a short time he began to breathe heavily, and exclaimed, "Oh, that I could see my mother!" Annie could no longer keep back, for she thought of the dear ones she that day would love to see. So she came round to hit side, and asked him where his mother was, and that if he wished, she would send for her. He looked at her with such a ghastly smile that she started back. But he said: "Don't be afraid; but come here;" and she again moved up to him, brushed his beautiful curls from off his manly brow, and asked him if there was nothing more she could do for him. 
               He said: "Was it you that laid that handkerchief around my mouth?" 
               She replied that it was. 
               Seeing her name on it, he requested her to allow him to keep it, as he believed it was the means of saving his life. 
               "Why," replied she, "if it will be any comfort to you, I willingly give it to you; but you have not told me what I could do for you." He replied: "If you could walk, (but I see you can not,) I would like to have a drink of cold water, for I have had nothing to eat or drink for two days. When I saw any of the girls, I called them, but they were afraid, and ran from me; so I came to the conclusion that I would try to get down stairs. I started, but when I came to the foot of the stairs, I could get no further, and threw myself down on this sofa, and there, I presume, I fainted, and lay until you found me." 
               Annie wept, as she heard this sad story. Just then one of the landlord's little daughters came in, searching for Annie, as she said her mother wished to know where she was. Annie said to her: "My little lady, if you bring this gentleman a glass of water; I will give you a penny." Away she ran, and brought the water, and Annie gave her the penny-the last one she had. The young man took her hand, pressed it, and said he never would forget the penny's worth of water. Annie always felt. happy when she had it in her power to make others happy, and she thanked God for sending her there at that time. She thought that he was fast passing away, and asked him if he was prepared to die. 
               He replied, with a faint smile: "God is love, and he deals in mercy with all his creatures." 
               He seemed to be well educated, but had fallen into the fatal error to believe that there was no future punishment. 
               "He continued: "My father is a Baptist minister, and I have always been a close observer; and, for my part, I do not believe that God would send his Son into the world to redeem all-then damn a part." "Now," continued he, "my little tle friend, do not give yourself any trouble on that point, for I guess it will all be right." 
               Annie then left him, saying that she would have a physician sent for, and get him something to eat. She made her way to the kitchen, and was almost exhausted when she got there, being yet very weak herself. She told what she had seen, and requested one of the domestics to make him a little gruel. But the landlady turned her black eyes on Annie, indignantly, and said: 
               "We have something else to do here besides waiting on the sick." 
               Annie thought this rather an unfeeling remark, for she appeared so kind; but was determined to have some made, so she turned to the cook, and said: "I will make you a dress if you prepare the gruel for that sick man." But the landlady said: "Let him hire some one to wait on him." Yet, Mary prepared the gruel. 
               Annie saw no more of him for several weeks. She heard that he was very sick, but knew that he would be cared for, as the landlord had been told what occurred, and he was a sympathizing man-a ministering angel to the poor and afflicted around him-and everywhere his feet trod an act of kindness was bestowed on the poor and needy. Finally, Annie became very sick, and was not able to leave the room. So one day a stranger came into her room, and said: "I have never forgotten the penny's worth of water. I am sorry to see you so sick." Annie was glad to see him; though they were all kind to her, yet she felt that he could truly sympathize with her. He was ever ready to do anything that he could for her, and his kindness was such that, had she been weak enough, she might have thought he really loved her. But she received it as a recompense for what she had done for him. The night before he went away, he insisted on her going with him to his home, as he said if his parents would see her they would adopt her, for he was the last of their children yet living, and he would soon be gone, so that she would become heir to the estate. But she told him that she would not leave her mother for all their wealth; but she intended to visit her father sometime; then, if he was living, she would call and see him, as that would be on her way. The next morning he came to stay with her until the cars were ready to start, and gave her a card, which contained the following words: 
                      
                        "We have been friends together, 
                        It cannot all be o'er; 
                        We will be friends forever, 
                        Though here we meet no more." 
                     
                  
                
               He wrote to her for three years, but she became came careless about answering his letters, as she was compelled to get some of the boarders to do her writing; and the last letter she received from him, he said that his mother had propped him up on a chair, so that he could write to her, "for," said he, "I have not forgotten the penny's worth of water, but could yet write a letter." So she never more heard from him. Annie took writing lessons from the boarders, and was obliged to take them in the evening; and, after working hard all day, she would write almost all night, so anxious was she to learn, that she might be able to convey her thoughts to distant loved ones, for she well remembered those who were kind to her, and it was a comfort to be able to repay them. The boarders took great interest in having her learn, especially one young man, who set her copies, and assisted her to read them. 
               Annie was naturally lively, and the coldness of the church caused her to grow cold in religion; therefore, being situated among a worldly class of people, she appeared to them attractive. The landlord would frequently remark that; where Annie was, there you would find the majority of the boarders. She received a great many calls from the most respectable class of people in the place, but they were not of the church of whose association she most needed. Being thus left to herself she was taken to every kind of amusement, and scarcely an evening passed but she was taken out for her health, which improved very fast, and in a little while she was able to do a great amount of work. But she soon worked herself down, so that she had a spell of sickness. Though, while sick, the ladies would call on her and bestow a quarter, and sometimes a dollar, to furnish her with such things as she needed; and the landlord would tell all that she was the best boarder he ever took in. This won her friends and she might have enjoyed herself, but nothing could make up for the loss of Lily. 
               Her mother then became dissatisfied with having so much company; but she did not consider that it was unavoidable for Annie. Deprived of the use of her feet, entirely dependent on others to take her around, and by her sociable nature going often into company, she attracted friends and received a good share of kindness; but her mother did not view the matter as it was, and thus caused Annie a great deal of trouble. Annie possessed a very high temper, but would never give way to it unless she was positive that she was in the right, and then she would strictly adhere to the truth. Yet this was a failing, and should have been avoided. But how frequently do we meet with those who profess godliness allowing their temper to rule, regardless of the feelings of others-regardless of the sin against high heaven, and the disgrace brought on the cause of religion! 
               Annie's high temper, in connection with the gay company she was obliged to keep, deprived her of the hope of a better land. But, oh! the remorse she then suffered is indescribable; when she reflected that she again had wounded her Redeemer and put him to open shame, it was indeed a bitter pang to her. Soon after, she met her dear old pastor from R--. He kindly inquired if she had connected herself with the church. She replied that she had not, at the same time giving her reasons for not doing so. The scene then was most affecting. The dear old servant of Christ was very much troubled to hear this of the church; then, offering a fervent prayer in her behalf, he sorrowfully left her. 
               But she always viewed the Christian's path as a very straight one, and felt that she was now no longer in that path, and hesitated not to make it known. Yet she still insisted that she once had a clear evidence of her acceptance with Christ, though she had deviated far from that narrow path which leads to him. She did not believe in merely making a profession and joining church; she believed in the true work when she belonged. She had always endeavored to let her light shine before the world that they might know that she was a child of God, that they would be constrained to join in with her. She was told by a young man that, had she proved faithful, she would have induced him to become a Christian, for her piety when she first came there almost convinced him that there was a reality in a cause that would enable any one to bear their afflictions as she had borne hers, and he felt sorry that he had so often teased her and called her a little Methodist for reading her Bible on the Sabbath day; but now he thought she had only been laboring under a delusion. Annie could not answer, for she felt deeply condemned when she saw the good she might have been the means of doing, which now, by her unfaithfulness, had passed beyond her reach. 
               Annie's mother grew more discontented; for it was too degrading in her sight for her child to labor for other people who were much more able to work than her. Her countenance became so sorrowful that even the most cheerful would grow sad in her presence. But Annie felt thankful for the work and was not in the least discouraged, though she was compelled to labor for their support. The people there would not give her any thing as a donation, but what they gave her was given as tokens of respect. The landlord's oldest daughter and her became as intimate as two sisters, and perhaps more so than a great many sisters are. 
               Annie's health again began to fail from overexertion, and she thought she would undertake a small lottery in order to make a little raise. Some condemned the enterprise, but the majority encouraged her, and she sold a ticket to every one she met with. Even the minister of the Presbyterian Church there-who so strictly opposed any thing of the kind-bought a ticket and encouraged her. But before she had finished she took the lung fever, and was unable to do any thing more for it. The young ladies then went to work and prepared the articles which were to go into the lottery, and the young gentlemen finished selling the tickets; so, with this, she was able to put thirty-nine dollars on interest. 
               She dressed herself well and kept her mother well dressed, and was treated as one of the family by the landlord and landlady, and received, while there, a great number of valuable gifts from the boarders and ladies of the place. 
               Lily came to see her but seldom, which made Annie feel lonely, for no one could fill her place; when she did come, she did not appear to enjoy herself and would not stay long. At last came the news that she was married to a young man by the name of Garland. This surprised Annie, for Lily had not intimated any thing of the kind to her; but Mary Lee had succeeded in turning Fanny somewhat against her, and she supposed that was the reason Lily had not told her. 
               But her health continued to decline, until her physician recommended a trip on the cars, or a few weeks residence along the sea-shore; as she could not do that, she concluded to go to Sandusky City, where she could get the lake or bay breeze, as there was a lady and gentleman there who formerly were boarders at the hotel in P--. They had been writing for her to come and live with them. Her mother could not think of this, for she began to think that Annie must be with her all the time; but she did not consider Annie's situation. After they came to P--, Annie had frequently been offered the privilege of attending school and receiving a thorough education; but her mother would say, "Wait till I'm dead, then you can go;" not thinking that it might then be too late. 
               At last Annie prevailed over her mother and prepared to start to Sandusky, thinking to recruit her health. She took her mother to a private house, where she was to remain until her return. She was in deep mourning for a nephew, who had come to her room and died; and he requested her to dress in mourning for him. Her black clothing made her look more ghastly pale, and she was an object of pity to all. Quite a number accompanied her to N--, where her mother was to stay, and from whence she was to start. They thought it almost impossible for her to travel alone. There was no stopping place at N--, but the conductor came down the steps, while the cars were yet in motion, to take her in, but before he had her seated, she fainted in his arms; she was too weak to bear the motion of the cars while held up. When she recovered, she was lying in a nice little place that they afterwards told her was the conductor's room, and the conductor kneeling before her wiping the water from' her face, which he had thrown on when she fainted. He again attempted to take her into a passenger car, but she fainted as before. He then brought in some ladies, who were very kind to her, and all that could have been done for her was done. When she again recovered, the conductor came and carried her to the other car, gave her a ticket and handed her a five dollar bill, which he said he had drawn out of her pocket with her handkerchief. He told her to be more careful of her money. She had placed the bill in her pocket to pay her fare on the cars, but the kind-hearted conductor would not receive pay. 
               She had written to Mr. S-- that she was coming, and requested him to meet her at the cars; but when they stopped at the depot, he was not there. The conductor asked her where she wished to go; she told him to send her in an omnibus to Mr. S--'s residence. He went out, but soon returned, saying that the conveyances were all gone, but he would take her to his boarding place and see her cared for until he could ascertain where Mr. S-- lived. He gently took her up and was just starting off, when they saw Mrs. S-- there with a carriage. Annie was very glad to see her, for she had never before ventured to travel alone. Mrs. S-- said that her husband was sick, and the man had been a little late about getting up the horse, consequently came near missing her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               ANNIE remained there about three weeks, and her health improved very much, and when she returned to N--, her mother was rejoiced to see the change. But a new trouble arose: Annie had engaged to sew for a dress-maker there, and was to return the following winter. Mrs. Lee could scarcely endure this, for Annie was her only comfort. 
               Arthur had forsaken her, and she knew not where he was. At times she would imagine him dead, then she would think that he had gone to California. To make things still worse, Frank's Mary came and intimated that she knew all about him. Finally Mrs. Lee actually became sick. Mary's object in this was to get Mrs. Lee to fretting, as she knew this would annoy Annie. Still Annie's mother grew worse, until her life was despaired of; Annie very well knew the cause. She had written letter after letter, yet no answer came. She was obliged to sit up night after night to attend to the medicine which was left for her mother; so one night, as she was thus watching alone, the ticking of a small clock which stood on the little work-table before her, arrested her wandering mind, and in that solemn midnight hour every tick sounded like a funeral bell, as she sat there sewing beside her sick mother. She knew not what to do. Then taking up her pen, she wrote to the post-master of the place where her brother had formerly been, and inquired if there was a man named Dr. Lee there, and stated that he had gone away six years before, and left her in charge of the family, besides his poor old mother to support. She also described his appearance, and requested the post-master to inform her if he was there, then signed her name in full-Annie Lee-at once throwing out the inference that she was his wife. 
               Arthur had been to Cincinnati and completed his trade, was considered quite a gentleman in he town, and was just about to be married to a very respectable young lady, a niece of the postmaster to whom Annie had written. When he letter reached its destination, he soon made known to this young lady that there was a letter here from Dr. Lee's supposed wife, and advised her to be careful. In a short time Annie received letter from Arthur, requesting her to clear him of the charge. Annie again wrote that if he would send her some money, she would then do as he requested, yet throwing no light on her former letter. He then sent her ten dollars, and she wrote to the post-master and told him all about it, which was very amusing to him. 
               Mrs. Lee then recovered, and went to Mr. Stevens' to stay while Annie went to Sandusky. Annie went along to stay with her until she made some preparation, as she was to start the first of November. She felt very sorry as she parted from her kind friends at P--, for there had she found true friends, indeed, but thought she could make more money in Sandusky, which she stood greatly in need of. While they were at Mattie's Mrs. Lee was determined to have her remain with her. But Mr. Stevens thought himself rather imposed upon, as he had not forgotten the time when she had looked upon him as an inferior, to both herself and her sons, and now he thought it rather unjust that he should be compelled to keep their mother and sister; and Annie thought he was in the right. 
               They were in a vicinity where there was no chance for any one to earn a living by sewing, as every one did her own sewing, and Annie wished ever to live independently. She told her mother that she must go and earn something, then she would be able to send her all she was in need of. Remonstrance was vain, and Annie saw no way but to stand firm; so the first Monday in November, Mr. Stevens took her to Lily's, where she staid a few days, and while there she busied herself making comfortable clothing for Lily's two children, as Lily could not get every thing done that was necessary, and she could not go and leave them until she had them fixed up more to her mind. 
               Annie had written to P-- for the hackman to call for her. He did so, and she bade adieu to Lily and her dear Little ones. She felt sad, for she loved them. She went to P--, remained there a few days, and was very kindly treated. Her young friends all called on her. When she arrived at the city, the lady for whom she was to sew was anxiously awaiting her, and before she had eaten her supper, there were several jobs of work brought in for her, as Mrs. L- had told the people that she was to be there that day, and intended to take in sewing, and was to board with them. She was to work in the shop ten hours of the day, under instruction, and take in sewing for evening work. Mr. L-- was to take her to the shop in the morning, and bring her back in the evening. Mrs. L-- was to do her washing, and she was to pay two dollars a week for her boarding. All this Annie wrote to her mother in glowing colors, and encouraged her to be of good cheer, for she was doing well. 
               The next morning she went to the shop bright and early. Her mistress was very talkative, but the entire substance of her conversation consisted in rehearsing the bad qualities of her hired girls. This did not increase Annie's good opinion of her. In the evening Annie said, "You have seen what I can do, for I have done my best today, and now want a written article to show what you intend to allow me per week for my work." She agreed to pay her two dollars a week, and give instructions, for two months. Annie went to her boarding-house that evening sick at heart, for she did not entertain a very high opinion of her mistress; yet she said nothing, as she thought since she had come there, she would make the best of her time she could. She worked on for one month, and got along pretty well, for she gave her mistress to know that she was not to be imposed upon. By this time the shop was filled with girls to work, and good seamstresses they were, but they treated Annie very unkindly. They would make sport of every thing she said, and look upon her disdainfully, which, of course, made Annie feel very lonely, and would have wished to die, but that her dear mother was yet living. She then, as her beloved minister had told her, went to God, and there found grace sufficient for every trial, though she made no public profession, nor did she make known her connection with the Methodist church. 
               One day her haughty mistress said to her: "Have you respectable relatives?" 
               Annie replied: "All the way I know for you to find out is to go and see." Her mistress then said: "My reason for asking you this question was, I thought if they were very respectable, they would not have the like of you working for a living." 
               Annie knew they gave people cause to think so, but she was determined that for her impertinence she should not be any the wiser through her. Again the many wrongs she had received revived in her memory, and she became sad, but did not let it be known to Miss G--, for she knew it would only please her, but when she went to her boarding-house, Mrs. L-- soon saw that some thing was wrong, and asked her why she looked so sad. Annie merely replied that she felt tired. She made it her business to work all night one night, and the next night until twelve, and worked on in this manner for two months, but her frail constitution could no longer bear such ceaseless toil, and sank beneath the burden. The shop she worked in was a large room, with a small air-tight stove at one end of it, and those who were to sew were compelled to sit away from the stove, in order to be near the light. Annie being mostly at fine work, sat near the best window, which was beyond the small range of heat which was granted them. The mistress would wrap her shawl around her, and sit by the stove, but Annie must sew ahead, when some times she scarcely felt the needle in her fingers, so extremely cold she would be. The people with whom she boarded kept the house entirely too warm, and thus by, extreme heat at the one place, and extreme cold at the other, with over exertion, her strength gave way. No wonder that with her strength her spirits sank also. Often she went to her work without even tasting any nourishment, and for three weeks before she left the shop, her only sustenance was bread burned hard and soaked in tea or coffee, and even this but twice a day. Her lungs were affected from the time she had the measles, and through this exposure she contracted a severe cold, which terminated in the typhoid fever. She was obliged to go to the shop when she could be taken, and frequently would get there before the fire was maze. One morning she got there early, and almost perished with the cold before her mistress came to make the scant allowance of fire. Annie waited until the mistress left the room, then made her way up to the stove, and put in all the wood that was there. This aroused Miss G.'s wrath, and she said, with authority, that she could not afford to burn so much wood. Annie replied that she could not afford to freeze, as she had been doing. 
               "I do not care what you can afford," said her mistress; "I wish you would leave, anyhow, for you have never been any profit to me." 
               Annie understood her. She was trying to get her to leave before the time expired, so that she would not be obliged to pay her what was due; therefore, she was careful how she dealt with her. She said: "To-morrow will be the last day I will bother you." Annie knew very well that she had earned six dollars a week, instead of the two which she received-and paid her own boarding. Her mistress had often said to the girls: "Look less out of the window, as Annie does, and you will accomplish more work." They were so situated as to be surrounded with all kinds of objects to attract their attention from the work, yet Annie scarcely ever looked up, so determined was she to render satisfaction-and worked as she would wish girls to work for her. The care of the shop generally was left to Annie when her distress went out, and she was sure of having the same amount of work accomplished when she was absent as when present. Yet, with all this, human nature-like, she must give vent to her spiteful feelings, by telling her that she was no benefit to her. 
               The next morning found Annie scarcely able to rise from her bed. Her head reeled with pain, and she vomited violently. Mr. S. advised Annie not to go to the shop, but she insisted on going, though she was a little late. She spoke pleasantly to her mistress, but received no reply. When Mr. S. had gone home, she said to Annie: 
               "Do you, think you will do a full day's work to-day?" 
               Annie felt indignant, for she had made known the cause of her delay, and she replied: "You will see when evening comes." 
               Miss G. said that she would be obliged to dock her wages, as she had been late coming to work several mornings. 
               "Well," said Annie, "and I have been here several mornings before the fire was made. Now, let the one balance the other." 
               Annie worked that day, but it was the last day's work for her. For four long weeks her life was despaired of, and for eight weeks she was unable to work. Far from home and friends, among strangers, whom she had never before seen, except the family she boarded with, and a young gentleman from P--, she was indeed lonely. This young man worked across the bay, five miles from where she was, but he would walk over twice a week on the ice to see her. And, oh! how anxiously did she listen for his coming footsteps as the time approached for him to come. Then she did not receive that proper care she so much needed, and she afterwards remarked that her recovery was even a surprise to herself. It is a common saying that, care does more good than medicine-but she received very little care. During the day the fire would be kept up, but from nine o'clock in the evening she received no attention whatever. A glass of water was placed where she could reach it, and, so long as she was able to reach it, she could get a drink; but at last she became so feeble as to be unable even to lift a drop. of water to cool her parched lips. One night she attempted to reach the glass, but when she had it in her hands they were too weak to bear its weight, and the water fell on her. In this condition she lay until Mr. S.'s brother came home, (as he was frequently out late at night), and waked them, saying that he thought she was dead. Mrs. S. arose, warmed her, gave her a drink, and then went to bed again. She was obliged to labor all day, and it was impossible for her to lose her night's rest; and Annie could not afford to hire any one to wait on her, though she had at that time over one hundred dollars, as she had saved from three to four dollars every week, and added it to what she had. She thought if she should die her mother would need all she could give her. So, from the time the family went to bed, she had no drink until morning; except when Mr. S.'s brother came home, late, when he was so kind as to-give her some water to quench her raging thirst. And how eagerly she awaited his coming, though it was but to get one drink of water. Then she thought of her mother or Lily. She knew if they were there they would change her position in bed, or give her a drink; for she finally became so weak as to be unable to move, except to turn her head from side to side. Her physician told her that he did not wish her to be alarmed, but if she had any business to settle, she should settle it quickly, for, unless a great change would take place, she would not live twenty-four hours. She calmly turned to her friend H., who had then come to see her, and requested him to take the key of her trunk, take care of her money, and have one of her delaine dresses put on her, procure a plain coffin for her, and send her to P--, where her nephew was buried, for she wished to be buried beside him. 
               "Yes, my dear child," said her friend, the tears streaming down his cheeks, "I will not send you, but I will go with you, and see that you are respectfully laid in your grave; and I will give your mother what money remains." 
               Annie then turned her head away, and soon fell into a deep sleep. She felt willing, yes, anxious to go. She hoped the Lord would provide some way for her mother to get along. This was the changing point in the disease, and the next morning her physician pronounced her better. She told him that she was sorry to hear him say so, for she longed to leave this world of sorrow. Her physician was kind to her; yes, many a time he stood by her bed, and wept when he could do nothing more to ease her suffering. During that day her lungs began to bleed. Mrs. S. became frightened, put cloths wet with cold water around her, and threw open the windows. It was a damp, rainy day, and Annie took cold, swelled all over, and for four weeks longer suffered more than pen can paint-being obliged to be fed like a child, and, when they attempted to move her, she fainted away. Her physician could do nothing for her but to keep her under the influence of laudanum. This eased her pain, and she lay apparently unconscious, yet was sensible of every thing passing around her. 
               To outward appearances Mrs. S. was kind to her, but when Annie seemed to be sleeping, she would say things that hurt Annie's feelings very much, for she heard all that was said. I will not here relate what was said for the sake of her who spoke it, but what it was sank deep into Annie's heart; and she often thought, why does God not permit me to die, that I may no longer be a trouble to other people? She had been accustomed to hear so much complaining about what was done for her, that she looked upon death as a deliverance from earthly sorrows; and, perhaps, through her great desire to die, she did not direct her thoughts to her future prospects, as she should have done. 
               She had from her infancy endeavored to make no unnecessary trouble to any one, though she often had been accused of doing so. Those who are blessed with a proper use of their limbs should be very careful how they treat those less fortunate. Do for them, uncomplainingly, what you can, for favors unwillingly conferred on another, only serves to make them more miserable than they are. Remember, God will hold you accountable for your conduct toward such, for He has placed all here for the purpose of making each other happy, and not unhappy. 
               As soon as Annie could sit up in bed, by being supported by pillows, she went to work, though yet too weak even to cut her meat; but, her medicines having cost her ten dollars, besides her boarding-though she had so managed as to have her boarding paid off until the first of April-she wanted to have a considerable amount to take home with her to show her mother what she could do. 
               One day Mr. S. brought her the looking-glass, that she might see how she had wasted. She was startled, for she was a mere skeleton. He smiled, and said: "You were almost gone this time." He was one of the few whose presence was joy to all around him. When his wife would complain, he would say: "We do not know how much care we may be to some one yet, or perhaps our children may need the same attention. We ought to be thankful that we are not afflicted as she is, and treat those in our charge as we would wish to be treated. If this rule was more generally adopted, there would be more real happiness in the world." 
               Annie had written to her mother that she had a slight attack of the rheumatism, but was almost over it. After her mother heard this, she grew very fretful, and would not rest until Mr. Stevens sent her to Lily's, where she thought she would be nearer to Annie, and hear from her more frequently. Just as soon as Annie was able to travel, she went to Crawford county, where she remained one month, and worked in great weakness; then started to where her mother was. When she arrived at Lily's, she found her mother and Lily in very delicate health. Mr. Stevens came up when they heard of Annie being at Lily's, and her mother went home with them; but Annie stayed with Lily to do some sewing for them. 
               Arthur's wife had died, and Fanny had been keeping house for him for some time, but finally became tired and came back, bringing his only child with her, a sweet little girl two years old, intending to keep her at Mr. Ellet's, where she had a room, and take in sewing. Arthur was to pay two dollars a week for its keeping until he saw fit to take it himself. Annie and her sister then procured a conveyance, and went to see their mother, as they thought she would be glad to see her little grandchild. When they came to Mr. Stevens', they had received a letter from Prudence informing them of the death of Annie's father. He had been with Prudence during his illness, and requested her to write to the friends, and tell them that he had passed over Jordan; that all was well with him, for he had a hope that God in his mercy had blotted out all his transgressions. He lamented deeply his past life, and regretted that he had not made things more secure for Annie's support, but hoped that God would put it into Frank's heart to deal justly with her. That last request was never granted, though perhaps it was all for the best, for God works all things for our good, and that was the means of giving her to see that all her support came from him above. 
               Annie felt sad when these sad tidings were brought to her. She thought he had done wrong, yet he was her father. She had intended to visit him, but had delayed until it was too late. He had written to her while she was in the city, but the letter came when she was sick, and it was some time before she could answer, and she feared he had never received her letter, and thought her ungrateful. The thought of this was too much for Annie to bear, and she wrote to Prudence about her fears, and was informed that the postmaster had neglected to give the letter until after her father's death. I have often observed the carelessness of post-masters, in attending to letters intrusted to their care. Frequently have I been turned away without the welcome missive, whet all that kept it from me was the carelessness of the one who needed but to hand it to me. I once went into a post-office and called for letters, and the response was-no, when I not being satisfied until an examination was made, and lo! three letters were handed me. So it was with the letter which Annie sent her father. It was a hard stroke on her, and she did not soon forget it. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               MRS. LEE at last became so discontented that Mattie said she could no longer keep her there, so Annie and her sister Fanny concluded to rent a house in A--. Annie was to work at the dress-making, and Fanny was to take in tailoring, but were not to go until fall. Then Annie's health would be somewhat recruited, as she was not yet perfectly over her sickness in the city. She had, through this illness, become quite deaf, but was in hopes that as she gained in strength, she would again recover her hearing, but that hope was never realized, and her hearing still grew worse. She remained at Lily's and fixed the children's clothing, as Lily had ever been well dressed when with her aunt and grandmother, and still possessed a good taste in dress, and loved also to see her children well dressed; indeed well she might take pride in dressing them neat, or they were lovely as infancy and nature could make them, and neat dress still added to their loveliness. 
               Fanny went to town and hired rooms in a house, but made a poor choice. It was a good two-story brick building, but had been formerly occupied by a family of poor repute, and was somewhat out of credit in town. Fanny went with the first load of furniture, and the gentleman's daughter that owned the house came to take Annie to the new house; but when Annie saw the house, and the character of the people who lived in it, she did not know whether she should get out of the buggy or not. She said to Fanny, "Oh, why did you rent in such a place as this?" Fanny said that the man who owned the house promised to turn those people out. 
               As Annie looked around, she beheld a dirty looking object in female form standing in the door. "A pretty place, this, for a dress-maker's shop," thought she. Finally she concluded to try it a while. They were there but a short time until Fanny was taken very ill with the flux. Annie brought her mother, but she was not able to do much for them, and hired help was not to be had for love nor money at that time. Had it not been for a few kind friends, whom the Lord sent there, they, perhaps, would have suffered. I can not here refrain from giving theft true names, for their memory should be embalmed in the hearts of all true lovers of charity. The friends I especially refer to were Dr. Sampsel and lady, Mrs. M. Miller, and Mrs. W. Wasson. Well may we denominate them the angels of the earth. They came to the house of these poor suffering people, and ministered to their wants when there wag no one to lend a helping hand. Annie at last hired a small girl ten years of age, and with the help of these kind friends, they made out to get the work done. The house was in a most filthy state, and it was almost impossible for them to live in it. Their kind neighbor, Mrs. Wasson, came in, pushed up her sleeves, and went to work cleaning up the house. So that they could get along until Fanny was able to be around. Oh, may this lady, and all such, never want for friends. How thankful, then, ought we be that God has provided kind friends for us wherever our lot is cast; for were there no ministering angels on this earth, dark, indeed, would be life's pathway. We are dependent beings on one another, and all dependent on him who rules the universe. 
               Annie's another, through over exertion, had a fit of apoplexy, and could not speak for two days. Fanny recovered, but was unable to accomplish much work during the winter. Lily and her husband visited them, but she being in rather poor health, could aid them but little, and it was impossible for them to get a girl, as they had all been sick; girls were afraid to come, so the winter ter passed heavily on. But Annie would say "There is a better day coming," for she possessed a large share of hope. 
               Annie again desired to connect herself with the church, and sent word to some of the leading members that they should visit her, as she was unable to walk. But they feared that she would become a charge, and therefore came not near. This made her very lonely, for she was not able to attend church, and it was a great trial to be slighted thus by those who professed to be followers of Christ. The Lutheran, Disciple, and Presbyterian church members were very kind to her, but they were not the churches of her choice, and she did not feel at home with them. On Sabbath the Methodist and Lutheran denominations were each having communion, and a young lady of the Lutheran church called for Annie, but when she was ready to start, she remarked that she would rather go to, her own church. "Wherever you wish to go, I will take you," said Miss Tilly. She carried Annie there, and found her a seat near the pulpit, then left, intending to attend communion at her own church, and return for Annie when service was over. 
               Soon as the sermon was ended, Father Whiteman, the minister in charge, came down and kindly spoke to Annie. How glad was she to have once more the kind attention of a pastor, for she Was like a stray sheep in the world; but he was not long in finding out where she lived, and how she came there, and he procured a conveyance to carry her home, saving Miss Tilly the toilsome task. The next day he called on her, and insisted on her coming into the church, promising to see that she had a way to attend. For a while Annie was too much mortified at the treatment she had received to do so. Mr. Whiteman was very kind to her, but could not arouse the members of the church to a sense of their duty. They felt a great sympathy for her, and hoped that she would get to heaven, but left the work for the Lord, which he had appointed them to do, for they thought he had more time to spare. In a few months from this, they held a protracted meeting there, and Annie came out publicly and connected herself with the church, and hired a man to take her there. So long as Father Whiteman remained there, she made out to get along. He would frequently take her there and bring her home, when the man she hired could not. always meeting her with a smile; and there was nothing that goodness and charity could do for her that he left undone, so far as lay in his power, and his family was equally as kind, yet she never felt this to be her home, for all, with the exceptions tions of a very few, treated her with the utmost contempt, yet she tried to trust in God, and bear these trials, but finally they were too numerous for her weak nature to bear, and at last the vile tempter conquered. 
               The winter to which we have referred was the season after the drouth, a few years since, when all kinds of provisions were scarce and very high priced, and wages low, making it a hard season for the poor. But to add still more to their troubles, Annie's health was not very good. She had started her shop, and received abundance of work, and what Jennie's boarding amounted to over-paid the rent. Thus they contrived to get along. Annie had fifteen dollars in gold, and twenty-four dollars in silver, which she gave to George, and for which he was to pay interest. But they did not want for any thing, except some one to do their work. Annie at last induced Mattie's oldest daughter to come and stay with them. She was to do the house-work and sew between times. Her 
                     neice
                     niece
                   was very apt it dressmaking, but Mary and her grandmother could not agree. Mary would not retaliate, but finally became discouraged, as her grandmother was always finding fault with her, and was not the same benefit to Annie. 
               For a while they managed to get along without out a girl. Annie hired a woman to do their washing, and the balance of the work Fanny made out to do. They then removed to another house, where they lived very comfortably. Mrs. Lee was well contented, which Annie felt rejoiced to see, and hoped to remain there while her mother lived, for she had never before been so well contented as in this place. But Fanny again grew impatient, and said that it was impossible for them to continue keeping house, as their expenses were so great. Annie had told her when she proposed going to house-keeping, that she would not agree to it unless she would promise never again to break up until their mother was gone. Fanny had consented to this, but said that now she was old, and did not feel it her duty to work herself to death for other people. Annie told her then that it she would allow her to keep Jennie-Arthur's little girl-that she would try and keep house, herself. Fanny complied with this request, and Annie took the care of the house, though she knew that many trials awaited her; for her mother had become so that she could never be suited with any one they would have about them to do the work, and she knew that they would be obliged to keep some one; however, she concluded to make an effort, and accordingly put her card in the paper, soliciting iting the patronage of the people-that she had an aged mother to support, as unable to walk. 
               After the bills were out Fanny concluded not to leave, "for," said she, "I will not leave my things here to be worn out; if my things are here, Iwill be here." 
               Annie was perfectly willing to have her stay, but was determined to keep a home for her mother, whatever might arise. She made an agreement with Fanny that she need not spend any of her money for the house, and what was paid for Jenny's boarding over the rent, should all be put on interest; and any work that Fanny received that would not bring in the money they were to take provisions for, and she would find clothing for Jenny in the place; for in those days there was not much money to be had, and they were paid for their work in wood, flour and such things from the country, and dry goods from the store. Fanny kept some sheep which brought her in some money, and Mr. Ellet gave her a calf, which she sold; and all this she put on interest. Annie kept a girl all the time and saw her paid off, and if there were any store debts to be made she must stand for them; thus the entire care of the house rested on her. She felt herself sinking, but hoped that God would strengthen her that she could bear up while her mother lived; and if she could go where she would hear the word of God on the Sabbath, she felt amply repaid for the many sleepless nights of toil, during the week, which she was obliged to pass in order to meet the many expenses incumbent upon her. 
               At first, when she was taken into the stores, the merchants would pass her by as a pauper, or one who merely came there to beg. This troubled Annie very much, for she was not accustomed to such treatment. But in a little while they found that she possessed too much independence to beg, and she was then greeted with a pleasant smile and "How do you do, Annie?" But there were a few exceptions; among whom you will find the names of Mr. Collins, and Mr. S--, a clerk in his store; and Mr. Grey, proprietor of another store, whom you will hear more of hereafter. These three gentlemen, alone, did not despise her because she was a cripple. They did not think her unworthy of notice, but took her in and treated her kindly, when they were not sure that they would ever be repaid for it; and the kindness of those alone did she truly appreciate when her reputation was known. 
               May this be a warning to those at whose hands this mistreatment came-should their eyes ever fall on these pages-that they will in the future treat the afflicted even with decent civility, for they are not always the poorest pay. 
               Annie had lifted of her money until she had but thirty dollars remaining; yet she had not spent any for clothing, as she had a good supply when she came there. They took a lady boarder, for which they were well rewarded; and a part of this Annie proposed to have put on interest, thinking in this way to keep her sister's courage up, for she saw that her mother was fast passing away. But Arthur took Jenny away, and did not promise them help any longer; and Fanny said she would stay no longer than the coming fall. Annie saw that it would go hard with them, yet she said she would not give up, until the last dollar was spent and the last means exerted. She felt sorry at parting with Jenny, for she was a lovely child. The night before Jenny was taken away, Annie worked the entire night to complete her toilet, and sent her home with two trunks full of clothing made neat as hand could make them. 
               Here again was another pang sent to her heart. She was hard of hearing, and Jenny, in talking to her, had acquired the habit of speaking rather loud, for which her aristocratic father had reproved her harshly; so she replied: "Papa, Aunt Annie can't hear me unless I speak loud." He said that he would rather than one thousand dollars that she had never been with her Aunt Annie. When Fanny came home and told this, Annie thought it was more than she could bear to think that, because she was afflicted, she must thus be cast away; and she prayed that God would either take her away or give her grace to bear her trials. 
               After Preacher Whiteman left, the church treated her with perfect indifference, and she felt that she had nothing to live for but to see her mother peacefully laid in the grave. Rev. Hildreth was placed in charge of the church, and he announced a quarterly meeting for the place. Annie had engaged a man, and paid him, to take her to church, and, as he had not come for some time, she sent her mother to ascertain the cause. His wife said that he had been working hard and was not very well, but she would ask the class-leader to take her. She did so. He replied: "If it is convenient I will; she is nothing but a pest in the church anyhow, and I do not see any use in being bothered with her." 
               When her mother came home and related this she would not go, nor did any one come after her. There was that class-leader pointing his class to the mercies of the Redeemer, while he was crushing the very life-blood from out one of God's creatures, and breaking one of his divine commands mands-to bear each other's burdens. Annie had never been a charge to them; she had paid her quarterage regularly, and even paid to get to the sanctuary. 
               Again Mattie came after her mother. Annie thought it very hard to see her poor mother taken away from the only place she had ever remembered seeing her happy; and she knew they might have lived together had Fanny been more firm. True, they were some in debt, but Annie was demanding and receiving higher wages; her friends were increasing, and she was doing well. She felt that she had many things to make her unhappy, for she never thought herself slighted because she was obliged to labor for a living until now, and this was very 
                     humilitating
                     humiliating
                   to her pride. Annie knew that her mother would be discontented away from her, but she could procure no work where Mr. Stevens resided to enable her in any way to maintain herself, and her brother-in-law did not care about keeping them both, as he thought that her own sons should have supported their old mother; especially Frank, who had taken all her support from her rather than have given her any thing. 
               Annie remained in A--, and the next Sabbath after her mother went away she concluded to visit her class for the last time, and therefore paid a lady one dollar to take her there. The minister of the church led in class that day, and all were relating their hopes and fears in the Christian warfare. Finally they came to Annie, and requested her to speak. She began with a calm and steady voice, though deep in her heart were pent-up sorrows. I will here give, in her own words, what she there related to her brothers and sisters, as they should have been to her, but were far from meriting the name: 
               "My dear friends," said she, "I have a hope that God is my friend, and though I have no home in this unfriendly world, I hope I have one not made with hands, which is in heaven, where sorrow cannot come. I have this day come to bid my class adieu, as I understand that my class-leader considers me a burthen to them, though I have always endeavored not to be such to any of them. But I will now try to make my way to heaven alone, as there is no place for me in the church here; but I will endeavor to join the church triumphant, where my presence will not be repulsive. I therefore desire a letter to leave the church-" 
               Before she concluded her story, Rev. Hildreth stamped his foot on the floor and sternly told her that the class-room was no place to tell such things. 
                
               A brother, seated in the opposite side of the room, arose and said: 
               "Tell on, sister, this is the place we meet to make our wants known." 
               The class-leader denied not the charge, for he well knew it to be true; but the good shepherd of the flock thought, as she was a cripple, she must not be heard. 
               Annie left the class, and never more met with them. She was then staying with a family by the name of Howel, who were unbelievers., The minister came the next day to see her. At first he was rather overbearing, and wished her to confess her fault to the class-leader. She said this she would not do, for she did not think she had done any thing wrong towards him or the church; nor would she ever meet with him in class again until he had made an acknowledgment to her. "Further," said she, "what good will it do me merely to have the name of being a Methodist and never getting to church, or having the members visit me?" He replied, with a sneer: "If you remain in the church, I will have you taken to church, and even give you a seat in the pulpit beside me, if that will suit you." This remark aroused Annie's anger, for she felt that he was not speaking to her as he should speak to a poor lonely cripple, as she was. She replied, "I would think it no honor to be seated beside you." Mrs. Howell heard all this, and began to think that it was not in accordance with the doctrines of Christ; and she told him that she and her husband had often thought that, were they in Annie's situation, they would leave the church, for they never came near her, either to visit her or to take her to hear God's word, though Annie had borne it uncomplainingly until now. Before he left he seemed somewhat affected, and offered up a fervent prayer in her behalf. He prevailed on her to remain in the church, for she dearly loved it, and could not endure the thoughts of leaving. 
               Mr. Howell had a little buggy made for her, that she could attend church. In this way children could take her there, and, so long as Rev. Hildreth was there, he would carry her in; but her class-leader never made any confession, and she would not meet in the class. 
               In a few weeks Annie was called to the bedside of her sick mother. For fifteen long weeks the sufferings of her poor mother were extreme. When Annie went there she sent for a physician, and promised that if her brothers would not pay him, she would see him paid when she was able-and they took good care never to pay one cent of it-although the doctor sent his bill to Frank. 
                
               This was another winter of sorrow to poor Annie. Mr. Stevens himself was in very poor health, and, to all appearances, would not be long in this world. His crops had failed for four years in succession, besides other losses; then he had a large family to support, and was obliged to buy almost everything they ate. Therefore, he felt that her sons were treating him rather unfairly. They thought they had done for their mother all that was required of them. Annie wrote to them, but received such saucy answers that she would not allow Mr. Stevens to see them, and he rather thought they were really sending her money. She then wrote to Frank, and told him that she was using her own money to buy his poor, old mother the medicine she needed, (as the physician merely prescribed for her). Frank wrote again that they should wait until he had built his barn, then he would take her and keep her comfortably. This so aggravated Annie that she again wrote to him and asked him if he was going to have her embalmed and put in a glass case, for his mother could not possibly live until his barn was built. For this she received one of the most abusive letters that could be written, enclosing five dollars, and wound up by telling her to hold her peace, and see that her mother was well cared for, and in the spring he would give her one hundred and fifty dollars. Annie never saw or heard anything of the money after this, and she was at a loss to know what to do. She just then needed money, and had very little faith in Frank's promise. She next wrote to one of Frank's sons, (whom her mother had formerly favored), and he sent her two dollars, and told her never to ask for any more of him, but that she should write to him and tell him how his grandmother was. But Annie did not consider him worthy of knowing, and did not write. She then wrote to her aunt Annie, for she knew that she was able to do something. But she, like all the rest, thought it outrageous to be requested to part with any of her glittering ore, and replied that her sister's children should take care of their mother; that she intended her children should care for her when she got old. Oh, heartless woman! She had ample provision for her own sustenance, while the most of her sister's children were poor, and could but obtain a comfortable living for themselves-except Frank and Prudence. Frank would not do, and Prudence was married, and had not the power to do; yet she managed to get a little somehow, and send it, so that, with this, and what Annie spent of her own money, her mother wanted for nothing; though her aunt might have lightened the burden, being a widow, and having a large amount of wealth in her own power. 
               But Mrs. Lee was fast passing away; yet all was calm. No cloud of doubt arose to mar the serenity of that bright horizon. No murmuring words escaped her lips, and thus she sank to rest where she at last found a home, A few evenings before she died, she requested Mattie's three daughters to sing the hymn commencing- 
                     "Jesus, my all, to heaven is gone,"
                   and while their voices arose in accents of praise to their Redeemer, her soul seemed to swell with joy, and longed to quit this tenement of clay. From this on her spirit became more happy, as it neared the Celestial Kingdom. The night before she died she prayed God to bless all her children, and forgive Frank for his unkindness to his dying mother. She told Annie ever to keep the fear of the Lord before her, and hoped that he would bless her for the part she had taken in seeing that she was taken care of. Then, for a few moments, she coughed violently, and, after that, was calm for a while. Fanny had brought one of Lily's little girls with her when she came there. Little Elva was standing by the bed, and, after lying for a few moments without speaking, she turned to her and said: "Farewell, my dear. Tell your mother and father of my sufferings, and tell them that I would have been glad to see them once more before I left this world; but hope to meet them in a better world." The family then went to bed, and Fanny stayed by her mother that night to watch. Mattie threw herself on a bed in the same room, as she was tired out. Annie lay on the floor, and Fanny sat in the armchair. For a while Mrs. Lee was perfectly quiet; then called out, "Fanny, Fanny, come here; I am dying." They were soon at her side, but she never spoke again. She lay seemingly asleep until about eight o'clock on Sabbath morning, then passed to that land whence no traveler returns, but where her tears were all wiped away. Annie gazed on that calm face with melancholy grief, though it was joy to her to think that her mother had at last found a home; yet the thought that she would never return grieved her. Those of her children who were well able to take care of her were weary of doing for her, and those who were compelled to support her could scarcely do so; and Annie said that sooner than have her mother become a public charge, she would work until her arm was powerless. Mattie's oldest son was sent after Lily and George. Lily came, but her husband did not come with her. 
               At last the time came for Annie to follow her poor mother to her last resting place, and she saw them carry the coffin out and place it in the hearse. Slowly they moved on; and when the clods fell on that lowly bed, sending a doleful sound to Annie's ears, she wept not. But when she returned, and scanned the room in which her dear mother had so recently breathed her last, a thousand bitter recollections arose before her, and then she found relief in tears. She now felt that the last one was gone who ever had loved her, and regretted that she had not exerted herself still more to make her comfortable. While she was pondering these things in her mind, a young man entered and handed her a letter. She soon saw that it was from Arthur, and, on opening it, found enclosed thirty-five dollars. She exclaimed, "Oh! why did he not send it sooner, or, if not send it, write encouraging letters to his dying mother?" Ah, no! every letter which was written insisted that he had done his share, and would not pay anything for her support. Annie had written to him that he would not long be troubled with caring for her; that he should make her happy now, and in reply he said that in the spring he would take her home. This she received when too late to gladden her mother's heart. He intended that Annie should keep five dollars of the money for herself, and give the remainder to her brother-in-law; but she gave it all to him, feeling, as matters stood, that she did not want it, although she had spent nearly all she had. 
               Mattie's children were all very kind to her, and all endeavored to make her happy; and the second son took special delight in taking her around, and seemed never so happy as when he was making her happy. His eldest brother was also very kind, yet he was rather delicate, and more of a bashful nature, and, therefore, was unable to bestow favors on his crippled aunt, as his other brother did. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               THE next morning after Annie's mother was buried, she returned home with Lily to sew some for the family. Her buggy was now-completed, but her kind friend, Mr. Howell, was gone, for which she felt sorry, as he had indeed been a friend to her. Annie then made an agreement with a lady whose name was Mrs. Morehead to board with her, and teach her girls to sew. This lady was very expert with the needle herself, but had not sufficient control over her daughters to teach them sewing. Annie knew that they were considered very bad girls; but their mother had always been very sympathetic with her, and, as she had ever been successful in gaining the good will of children, she imagined it a very easy matter to do so again; and, perhaps, they had been somewhat misrepresented, for she had learned in going through the world that some people's misdeeds were branded on their forehead, while those who branded them were guilty of deeper crimes. Therefore she ceased to hearken to evil reports until she was positive of their truth. So she thought in this case they would make the best of it. She saw in them a fondness for dress, and thought she would take an interest in having them well dressed, and that would win them over. 
               Mr. M-- was apparently a kind husband and father. His wife frequently said that he was not what he should be, yet Annie saw that he kept everything about the house neat and convenient, provided well for wood, and the table was always well furnished. He was cleanly, and never left his clothing lie around for the women to put away for him, as so many husbands and sons do-thinking that their mothers, and sisters, or wives are in the world for the sole purpose of waiting on men. Annie saw some traits. in his character which she did not quite like, but he was kind to her, and would wait on her more as if she were a visitor than a boarder in the family. For a while everything moved along well with all, except the church. She had taken her letter with her to Wayne county, but again brought it back, as she did not intend to make her home near that church. Rev. Mr. Hildreth treated her very kindly, when he met her, but never troubled himself to visit her. His wife visited her, and seemed very kind, but he never came to console her drooping spirits after her last parent was laid in the silent tomb. He would inquire how she was getting along with her work, but no inquiry about her soul, which should have been his greatest care. How often, then, did she long for some one to instruct her in her dark and lonely path, for, through her numerous vicissitudes, she frequently became downcast. 
               One day her business led her into a dry goods store, which was kept by Mr. Sedgwick, a member of the Presbyterian Church, who has since gone to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. She wished to purchase some black clothing, and requested him to wait a short time for the pay. Though a stranger, he replied, with a smile: "Certainly; you can have all you wish for-and I will give you sewing to pay for them." This came very good to Annie just then, as she was already over thirty dollars debtor in town-and thus she procured a good suit of black clothes. 
               As she now had her little buggy, she hired Mrs. M--'s youngest daughter to take her to the church door, thinking that if she were there she certainly would meet with some kind friend who would carry her in-as Sadie was yet too young-but when she came to the door of the sanctuary, one after another of the humble worshippers passed her by unnoticed, or with a sneer. There were a few who would take her in if they chanced to see her, and that few consisted of the most wealthy class. If you observe closely, you cannot but notice that it is not those who possess the most real wealth that are the most aristocratic in their ways, but generally those who have been elevated above their common sphere of living, and now look down with scorn on those who occupy the same position in life they formerly, did, and forget the author of all their blessings. When the minister saw her he would carry her in, and do it very pleasantly. He said he did not see why there need be so much trouble about carrying her into church, for she was so light that any one could carry her. Annie tried to forgive him for the treatment which she had received at his hands, and to love him as a Christian, but could not forget it. 
               One Sabbath morning she went, as usual, to the door of God's house. There was a chilling air, and the dark clouds which obscured the sun would sometimes part, and a faint gleam of light burst forth, as if to smile upon her loneliness. Sadie M-- had taken her there, and had asked, and been refused, until Annie told her to go in, and she would remain seated in her buggy until service was over. But just then they saw two young ladies coming down the street, and they waited there until they came up. The one passed in, as others had done before her, but the other, a delicate girl of seventeen, neatly dressed in black silk, stopped and looked at Annie a few moments, and then kindly said: "You want to go in, don't you?" Annie replied that that was what she came there for, but no one would take her in. "Yes," said the young lady, "I will," and, true to her word, she picked her up and carried her in; then, when the sermon was over, came again and carried her out. Annie knew not who had thus befriended her. She inquired of every one she met who that sweet angel was, but no one knew. 
               She had been so chilled on that day that a severe spell of illness followed; but still she worked on, and in less than one year had all her debts paid off, and put ten dollars on interest. 
               Mrs. M--'s two girls began to conduct themselves so imprudent, that Annie said she could no longer board with them, and have them sew with her, as they were more hindrance to her than assistance; and she was to give two-thirds of all she earned for her boarding, besides paying Sadie extra for waiting on her. This she thought rather unjust, and be bothered instructing the girls; but Mrs. M--. was not willing that she should leave, as she said that what she paid for her boarding helped to clothe her girls, and her being there brought work in the house, as the sewing she usually worked at was scarce just then. She said Annie should cut out for the girls, and they could finish out the jobs themselves; but Annie thought this was rather too much, and then be obliged to pay so much towards her boarding in addition to this. Yet Mrs. M-- insisted on her staying, and Annie concluded to try it a little longer, as Mrs. M-- was a kind, motherly woman, and she had become very much attached to her, though to screen her own daughters' faults, she reported things about Annie that were basely false. Whether she had been told so frequently such things about Annie by her rude daughters that she began to think them really true, Annie was unable to decide. 
               By and by it was no longer a secret to Annie that Mr. M-- was not what she supposed him to be-she had thought him about as good as the most of husbands are. He would abuse his family most shamefully, especially his wife and Sadie. Hattie would mistreat both her father and mother, yet she was the favored one, and would tell falsehoods on her sister, which were believed, and Sadie was ill-used on this account. She, too, was a bad girl, but, had she been differently brought up, might have been an ornament in society. Yet she was kind to Annie; and, when Hattie was in a pleasant humor, she was kind also. 
               While Annie was yet with Mrs. M--, she went one day to the fair, and was sitting in her little buggy conversing to Dr. Sampsel, when a young printer stepped up and inquired if she was from Spring Creek. She replied that she formerly resided there. He then seated himself beside her, his black eyes sparkling with joy and pity, and kindly asked her if she remembered a family there by the name of Forest. She said that she had forgotten all about them, as she was so young when she resided there that she did not remember very many of the names she then knew. He then inquired if she remembered a family by the name of Landers. She quickly recollected them, and told him that she did, and also remembered a family just on the opposite side of the street from them, whom she frequently visited, and they had a baby, which she thought very much of. He smiled, and said: "I am that baby." He then told her that Philip Landers was on the fair ground, and he would hunt him up. Annie was rejoiced once more to meet one of her dear old schoolmates of that happy place, for those indeed were sunny days which she spent when at Spring Creek. 
               After her young friend left her, she started for the house, as she would rather meet them at her boarding-house, and she told Frank to bring her friend there; but she met them on the pavement, and they went with her. Annie was dressed in a black silk frock, and had an elegant black crape hat on, and appeared to be gay and happy. Yet Philip would look at her, and say: "How changed I find you. Can it be that you are here supporting yourself?" She replied, with a gay laugh, that she was free, for she did not wish them to think she was sad. But she did not long enjoy their company, for Mr. M--'s son was working about the machinery on exhibition at the fair, and accidentally cut his two fore fingers off. So Mr. Landers left, promising to be back soon; but, for some reason, he did not return. Some time after this, Mr. M-- came in, and handed her the following letter: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MISS ANNIE:-With your permission, I take the liberty of troubling you with a few lines. I was in hopes, when I saw you in A-, this fall, that the time would soon arrive when I should enjoy the satisfaction of having frequent communion with you, face to face; but circumstances beyond my control have frustrated my design, and I am compelled to submit with the best grace I can. You were the last one, dear friend, whom I expected to see; and when I associate your name with that of Frank Forest-another much esteemed friend-and think of Spring Creek and Gravel Hill, it makes the interest complete. It brings to mind the hallowed associations in the days of auld lang syne. The home of our childhood-that home, with its associations, are treasured up among the very choicest jewels in the casket of my memory. But, ah me! time and distance have wrought sad changes since we emerged from our home. But, thank God, distance may separate friends, but cannot sunder friendship. Our union of hearts remains the same, and we can sing, with the poet: 
                                  
                                    "'We have been friends together 
                                    In sunshine and in shade; 
                                    Since first beneath the chestnut tree 
                                    In infancy we played.' 
                                 
                              
                            
                           "I am sorry fate has ordained that I should remain here during the winter season, but trust at no distant day to renew our intercourse, face to face. I am at present engaged in teaching near this place. Please let me hear from you often. 
                           "Give my regards to F. Forest, when you see him, and believe me, dear friend, that, though lost to sight, you are to memory dear. 
                           "Hoping to hear from you soon, I remain, with the highest regard, your sincere friend, 
                           
                              "P. LANDERS."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               This letter was a great satisfaction to Annie, for it came at a time when her heart was almost breaking; for she was constantly annoyed by hearing talk from some of her brothers and sisters in the church. 
               Mrs. M-- was kind and motherly in her way, but seemed to take delight in telling Annie what was said about her. She already knew enough, without being told any more, but when this letter came, she thought-could it be that she was dear to any one? Oh, no! yet she hoped that he had some little respect for her, when she brought to memory his manly conduct when they were merely children. The school play-ground and their pleasant plays were still dear to her. She replied to this kind letter, and they corresponded in this way for several years. This, and the kindness of Frank, made her feel a momentary gleam of joy, and she thought she could almost laugh at the contempt she was receiving from the church, for she felt that surely God was her friend. Her health again began to give way, as it ever did when she over-worked herself. The cold which she contracted when sitting at the church door, settled on her lungs, and through trouble she was subject to the palpitation of the heart. Once, when Sadie M-- was taking her out in her little buggy, for recreation in the air, they met a young lady whom Annie soon recognized as the dear one who had so kindly taken her into the church, and when she passed, they stopped and inquired her name. She said it was Maud Stanton. In a short time they became fast friends. It was a lovely night in May. The young people of the place were to have a party, and quite a number had called for Miss Hattie, but she had so shamefully disobeyed her mother, that as a punishment she was not allowed to go. Annie went to the kitchen, that she might be alone. Hattie had formed quite an attachment for her young friend, and knowing that her bad conduct was known to Annie, therefore she imagined that she had influenced her mother to refuse her permission to attend the party, lest she should meet Frank; but Annie had not done any thing of the kind. She was not long in the kitchen until Hattie came out, and began to storm and scold in such a boisterous manner that she returned to the room, but when she was in, through the exertion of walking with her chair, her heart ceased to beat, and she was only able to tell them to raise the window, then sank down. A physician was called in, but she was unconscious, and he, too, thought she must be dying. A momentary consciousness returned, and she said, "Is this like death?" then again sank away. 
               Frank Forest had determined not to attend the party; as he feared Hattie M-- would be present, and she had shown so much regard for him, that he disliked being where she was. He was walking along the street, and as he came opposite Mrs. M--'s house, he observed quite a number of people there, and inquired the cause. They told him that Annie was dying. He was soon by her side, and took the place of the one who was holding her head, as she was sitting in her chair, and could not be moved. Annie could not see, but by this time was conscious of every thing that was transpiring around her. She knew each' by their voices, and she knew that Frank was supporting her head, but could not speak to him. Soon as she began to revive, the young people left the house, but the physician told them that she must be held up the entire night, or she would not live. No one seemed willing to stay. All found some excuse. Mrs. M-- had the sick headache, and was not then able. Frank then offered to stay and attend to her medicine, but no sooner did Hattie hear this, than she proposed to stay up with him, but Frank told her that he did not wish her to stay. This aroused a suspicion in Mrs. M-- that she really had told him something, and she appeared determined that he should talk to her disobedient daughter. In the night some time Annie began to feel so comfortable that she told Frank that he should go to rest, as she saw that he, too, was not very well. At last he reluctantly complied, and Annie went to bed in the same room with Mrs. M--, but was not long in bed until Mrs. M-- could hear no sound of her breathing. She got up and found her apparently dead, but she raised her up and the breath returned. The next morning again found her at work. She was truly not able to work, but it seemed a matter of necessity, for she was daily incurring expenses, and had none to assist her in meeting them. Frank exhibited such an aversion to Hattie that both her mother and she were mortified. Annie was sitting in deep thought soon after her sickness, and Mrs. M-- came into the room, and related an anecdote of a young man in New York who would pretend to take fits, and would fall down on the pavement, so that the ladies would gather around him. Annie, thinking nothing of this, replied that any one who would do the like should in reality suffer with them. She observed Mrs. M-- and her daughter exchanging glances, yet did not understand why they did so. After a while Mrs. M-- left the room, and her daughter then said: "Do you know that mother meant you when she spoke of that young man? She meant that when you were sick the other night, you only made pretensions, so that Frank could hold you." This was like a dagger to her heart; to think that one upon whom she had ever looked as a mother, should talk so cruelly to her. 
               When Mrs. M-- came in, Annie was in tears. She told her what her daughter had said. Mrs. M-- replied, "It is even true that you lover him, and he thinks more of you than is proper, for him to be at the same time paying attention to another lady. 
               Annie did highly regard him, and why should she not? He had picked her up and carried her into the house of God. He had held her aching head, wiped away her tears, and told her not to weep, that he loved her as a dear sister, and would ever be a friend to her. Yes, it was true, she loved him as a friend, but she felt that he only sympathized with her because he was naturally kind. Yet she felt a regard for him she never had felt for any one, though she had often been kindly treated. She could not account for it farther than this, that he had been her playmate in childhood's sunny hours, and now that all had forsaken her, his friendship was doubly dear. When surrounded by friends, she formed no warm attachment to any one, and the only one she ever had loved was Lily. Mrs. M-- said that she had understood that Frank intended to have her live with him, when he was settled for life, and on that account she objected to him marrying any of her daughters, as she would never have any one living with her, whom her husband loved more than his wife. Annie's pride was touched, and she said, "You had better wait until he asks for one of your daughters' hand." This confirmed her opinion that she had thrown out her influence against them. She said, "Oh, yes, now I know all about it. You are trying to get him for Lily Stevens." 
               "No," replied Annie, "she is not obliged to send out agents to get her a man. She stands too high in society for such work." 
               Frank had told Annie that if she did not board elsewhere, he would not come to see her, for Mrs. M--'s daughters had become so low in society that he did not like the name of going there, and the report was in circulation that he was going there to see the girls. Annie had been contemplating this for some time, but when she would mention it, Mrs. M-- insisted so on her staying with them, that Annie could not refuse; but finally jealousy held such ungovernable sway in their hearts, that it was intolerable, and Annie concluded to seek another home. She found a home with a lady whose husband was away at work. This lady resided quite near to where Maud Stanton then lived, and Annie was not sorry for this, for she grew more attached to her young friend as their acquaintance became more extensive. 
               Annie thought she could recompense Maud in no better way for her kindness than to introduce her to Frank, and use her influence for their union. It was not long until this was accomplished plished; and had her health not been so delicate, she would have spent the summer very pleasantly, for Maud was kind, and Frank and she were almost her constant companions: they really seemed to delight in her company. Maud once remarked to Annie: "It does me good to see how much Frank thinks of you." 
               "Oh, no, he only pities me," said Annie. "Yes," said Maud, "he does like you, for he said so, and I love him the more, for it shows a kind disposition in him, and I am sure he will be good to his companion. 
               Mrs. M-- could not see them thus enjoying themselves without envy, and tried every means to sever their friendship. Finally she sent him word that if he would come and have a talk with her, she could convince him that Annie was not what she represented herself to be. He would not go unless Annie would also be present, so she consented to go, as she did not wish Mrs. M-- to think so hard of her. But when she came there she would not listen to any thing that was said. Frank frequently told her that it was her own daughter's conduct, and not any thing that Annie had said, which was the cause of him not coming there. 
               But this did not suffice. She said to Annie: "This is the reward I receive for taking you in when no one else would have you." 
               "Don't say that again," said Frank imperiously, "There are places enough in this town. And did you not walk out to Mr. Garland's yourself, and force her away before she had finished her sewing there? And did she not pay you for her boarding?" 
               "O yes," replied Mrs. M--, as for that, she overpaid me." 
               "Then, why did you talk so?" said Frank. 
               Annie was accustomed to having people think it a great favor to take her in, even if she did pay two prices for her attendance, and they at the same time would accommodate only for self-interest. She had always so kept herself as not to be a loss to any one, and, in: whatever family she made her home, she took great interest in the children, and, until now, had won the favor of all the children. Even Mrs. M--'s two girls would say they could not help liking her. It was indeed a sore trial for her to be accused of things which she was entirely innocent of. 
               Her health continued to fail, and at last she became so feeble as to be obliged to sit both day and night with a chair in front of her, on which were placed pillows, that she could support her head, as she could not lie down, on account of her breath being so short. She endeavored to sew a little every day, but the greater part of the time she was unable to do anything. Mrs. Young, the lady with whom she was boarding, frequently remarked that she feared to enter the room in the morning where Annie was, lest she would find her dead. Yet, Annie was cheerful. Maud and Frank were very attentive to her, which gave her to feel that she still had some kind friends. The greatest sorrow then was the indifference of the church to her at this time, when she needed their sympathy. But they all kept away from her, fearing that they might be called upon to lend some aid. She grew more feeble, and Mrs. Young's son said he would call in another physician. When the physician examined her, he said that it was uncertain whether he could do anything for her or not, as she had delayed too long in having him brought in, though he would do his best; and, ere long, she began to recover. Frank and Maud seemed pleased at this, for they had spent a few months very pleasantly together. But their enjoyment was soon do close, as Frank was going to seek employment where he could do better, and intended trying the Western States. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               BEFORE Frank started for the West, he asked the hand of Maud in marriage, and was not denied. Annie was happy to know this, for she now entertained the hope of one day seeing them both happy; but would not comply with their request-that of making her home with them-but she promised them that she would visit them when they were settled. The time came for Frank to start, and he came to bid Annie farewell. She felt reluctant to part with him, for she knew she was losing one of her best friends. 
               After he had reached his destination, he wrote many encouraging letters, which partly made up for his absence. But there are a certain class of people who dislike seeing others happy, and will devise plans to sunder friendships, knowing that by so doing they blight the happiness of those who delight so much in the association of true friends. 
               There resided a family of this kind near Annie and Maud. Thinking that Annie was enjoying herself too well, they set about contriving some means of changing that happiness to sorrow. Accordingly, they told Maud that she was made sport of for taking so much notice of that cripple-that she would throw herself out of society unless she ceased doing so. Maud was a kindhearted, unsuspecting girl, and did not see the snare laid for her until too late to retrace her steps. They then took her into society which they well knew Frank despised, and she finally grew cold and distant toward Annie, who was her best friend. It grieved Annie, yet she loved her. She saw the motive of the plot, as did Mrs. Young; they thought they would turn Maud against Annie. This they did, but she did not convey the news to Frank, as they wished her to, but put them to the trouble of completing the plot they had already commenced, which they in a little time did. But Annie was not alone. Mrs. Young and her lovely little daughter tried to make time pass pleasantly. She saw that her constitution was broken down, and that she could no longer think of supporting herself with the needle, and concluded to travel. Mrs. Young insisted on her staying with her, but she determined to try. Maud began to see her folly in conducting herself as she had done for some time, and came to Annie with tears in her eyes, and begged her pardon. Annie told her that she could forgive her, but could never place the same confidence in her. Poor Maud did everything in her power to replace that trust; but, confidence once broken, can never be united. 
               Frank kept up correspondence with Annie through all, and, while she was preparing to travel, she received a letter, of which the following is an extract: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MY DEAR ANNIE:-My heart is sad; and, as you have been both a sister and mother to me, allow me to pour my soul's sorrow's into your ear. To-day I was handed a letter from Maud, in which she informed me that she had come to the conclusion that we had better drop correspondence, and break off the engagement we had made. It went like a dagger to my heart; but, ardently as I love her, I will not hold her to her engagement-and, despise the man that would. With that letter I was handed the present of a precious Bible, which I very much cherish. 
                           "Here allow me to renew my expressions of thanks to you for your kindness to me. It is a blessing to have such a kind sister, though that sister be at a distance. Having your image and that of my dear mother before me, is sufficient to keep me from danger. Your influence, though little, you think, will manifest itself in all my future life, though I should live a thousand years. The time since I first met you at the fair has been the happiest period of my life; and now, as I have no one to love but you and my mother, my days shall be spent in trying to make you happy. From this on I will be bound to none but you. But I hope that Maud will find one who will devote his time and talents in making her happy, for she is worthy of such a companion. "Enclosed you will find a check for twenty dollars. Take it as a token of my regard for you. 
                           "No more at present, but believe me, your sincere friend, 
                           
                              "FRANK FOREST."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               Annie felt exceedingly sorrowful when she read this letter, and saw how deeply Maud's conduct affected him. She looked at the check, and wondered if she had not better send it back; then concluded first to show the letter to her friend, Dr. Sedgewick, at whose house she was staying. He read the letter, and said that Frank was a dear, good boy, and meant all right, and she would be treating him cruelly by sending his gift back. Then Annie wrote the following reply: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR FRIEND:--I received your kind letter, enclosing the check, and, as I am in need of money to aid me in preparing to travel, I will gladly receive it as a loan. I likewise send you my sincere thanks, until I can pay you better. I always appreciate your kindness. I loved you as a dear brother, but cannot expect to find a sister's place in your heart. Oh, no! I never did in my own brother's, and how could I expect it in yours? I truly sympathize with you concerning Maud's conduct; but she now sees her folly, and is suffering deep pangs of reproach. Can you not forgive her? She was persuaded to act thus. If 1 could see you, I flatter myself that you would. But, as it is, I will close, hoping that all will be right yet. 
                           "I remain, as ever, your sincere friend, 
                           
                              "ANNIE LEE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               He received this letter, and, as a reply, sent her those beautiful lines of poetry entitled 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "KIND HEARTS. 
                            
                              "Let but the heart be beautiful, 
                              And I care not for the face; 
                              I heed not that the form may want 
                              Pride, dignity, or grace. 
                            
                            
                            
                              "Let the mind be filled with glowing thoughts, 
                              And the soul with sympathy, 
                              And I care not if the cheek be pale, 
                              Or the eye lack brilliancy. 
                            
                            
                              "What, though the cheek be beautiful, 
                              It soon must lose its bloom; 
                              The eye's bright, lustre soon will lade 
                              In the dark and silent tomb 
                            
                            
                              "But the glory of the mind will live 
                              Though the joyous life depart; 
                              And the magic charm can never die 
                              Of a true and noble heart. 
                            
                            
                              "The lips that utter gentle words 
                              Have a beauty all their own; 
                              And more I prize a kindly voice 
                              Than music's sweetest tone. 
                            
                            
                              "And though its sounds are harsh or shrill, 
                              If the heart within beat free, 
                              And echoes back each glad impulse, 
                              'Tis all the world to me." 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               These were the sentiments of a noble mind, broken down by sorrow. How eagerly we grasp at every appearance of true friendship when those we love forsake us, and we feel that we are alone in the world! Thus it was with her friend. He heeded not that her form lacked beauty, when it was but an exterior to such a true heart as he thought she possessed. How few do we find who seek for the beauty of the mind. I say, comparatively few. Young people admire the handsome form and graceful manners of a person, but seldom bestow a single thought on the value of a noble mind, which still exists when beauty is no more. 
               Annie made him one dozen fine muslin shirts, sent them to him, then left Dr. Sedgewick's and went to Mr. Ellet's to do some sewing, but she was so feeble that it seemed like committing suicide for her to attempt any thing of the kind. She wished to pursue some course that she might be independent, for she was tired of being reminded that she was in other people's houses, on committing the most trivial offense. What she should do she was at a loss to know, and seemed quite down-hearted. Her friends inquired the cause; she told them what was troubling her. Mr. Ellet proposed to draw up a writing and solicit subscribers to procure her a horse, that she could travel in her own conveyance, and hold exercises of singing and short lectures. The people had been saying that if she would allow them they would do more for her, so she concluded to humble herself and give them a trial. 
               The paper was arranged, and Mr. Ellet put down his name for five dollars and his wife one, to start the subscription. I shall, for the want of space, be obliged to omit the names of all who signed the paper; yet few who signed the paper ever gave her any thing, but what she did receive, she was obliged to take more insulting language for than all the little money amounted to. Though we must give merit to those who did give, and believe they gave with willing hearts; and one family especially, named Hudson, bestowed freely in the humble enterprise. 
               Mr. Ellet's brother-in-law came to visit them, when Mr. Ellet showed him the paper. Mr. C-- said to him: "Well, you have just deposited so much in the Lord's bank." But when he was requested to deposit some there, he did not think the Lord paid high enough interest. This is one of the failings so prevalent among mortal man, to heap burdens on others which they themselves would be unwilling to bear. Were I so minded I could undoubtedly fill a volume with incidents of this description. 
               To Mr. Ellet the highest praise is due for the interest he exhibited in the work, though he did not succeed in getting a sufficient number of subscribers to buy a horse. Various excuses were given. Some were fearful of Mr. Garland receiving the benefit of it; others thought such public exercises were disgraceful for a female to engage in, and numerous other excuses which I now forbear to mention. Yet Annie determined to make the attempt-although she intended paying them back, and they all knew this--but went to Dr. Sedgewick's first to do some sewing. Here she lay four weeks again so ill that her life was despaired of; but the attention of these kind people was unceasing, for which we sincerely trust that God will ever bless them. The pastor of her own church dwelt next door, but never troubled himself to visit her in this affliction. His wife occasionally called in to see her and say that she must be taken care of, and that the Lord would care for her. One time particularly Annie overheard such conversation, and, in accordance with her nature, improved the opportunity of speaking her mind on the subject, to show them their duty. She said: "The Lord never made any such arrangements to come here and do the work which he appointed agents to perform, and if those agents do not fulfill their appointment, undoubtedly they will be held accountable by their Lord and Master." 
               Here, again, she was highly favored by different members of the Presbyterian Church, who administered both for her temporal and spiritual wants. Her friend advised her to withdraw from the church, as he said it was doing her more harm than benefit, and he feared the treatment which she was receiving from its members would be the means of doing her mind great injury, and there were other churches in which she could find a home. Annie said that she had found true Christians in the Methodist Church, and these she might find in another church, but perhaps, in changing places, would meet with the same difficulty. Therefore she would now try to make her way to heaven alone, though she felt that her path through life would be a dreary one, for there is nothing so calculated to make life pleasant as a true Christian profession, and having the association of Christian friends. Annie felt sad and lonely; her friend Frank was gone, and she had no pleasure in the church. Mattie's second son in part made up for this, but she could not be near him. 
               As she did not succeed in getting a horse, Mr. Stevens proposed to lend her one, and William, his oldest son, being of delicate health, should go with her. She then went to her sister Mattie's to prepare for the journey; as her youngest daughter had ever been ready to assist her, she went to her, that she would assist her in this enterprise, but they could not complete the preparation there, and Lily Stevens returned to A-- with her aunt. 
               Here were numerous trials awaiting Annie. Those from whom she expected the most kindness, proved the most untrue; and had it not been for the kindness of Mrs. Miller, of the Miller Hotel in A--, she again would have been baffled. But this kind lady took them in, gave them a room, and charged nothing for the trouble and expense. Yet she had many trials to undergo. This occupation seemed very degrading to her, but as she scarcely knew what to do, she tried to submit. She then went to a friend, whose name was Ford. This lady had ever been as a friend and sister. Many times when she was sick in A--, Mrs. Ford came and ministered to her wants, when otherwise she would have suffered. So Annie asked permission to bring the printer there, that they could make the necessary arrangements about printing the programmes for her evening exercises. Mrs. Ford readily assented, and the foreman in the office was called in. When he came in Annie felt as though her blood would refuse to circulate through her body; but this young printer quickly saw her embarrassment, and, seating himself by her side, kindly gave her all the instruction she needed. What a comfort it was to her sinking heart to have a word in kindness given! She had the programmes printed, but the editor or some one, under the pretence of benevolence, took good care to charge her double what the real value of the work was. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               IT was a lovely afternoon in June that she started on her journey. But she had many doubts with reference to her undertaking. The great Rebellion was then just beginning to uncoil its serpent folds, and all was excitement. She had many things besides to sadden her heart. She had not for some time heard of her friend Frank, and thought that he would be among the first to obey his country's call, which she wished him to do, but she greatly feared that he had fallen a victim to the traitorous band. These imaginations grieved her, yet she went on. 
               The first night was rather discouraging, but after that she might have done well had she been able to endure the evening exercises. Yet the little while she did travel the ladies took an interest in her, and would take the fancy articles which she had with her, sell them, and bring her the money, and in every way treated her with great respect. Here she met with true Christians of her own church. Her nephew was growing less bashful, and was most trusty and kind, which was a great comfort to her. But the excitement was too much for her weak body, and being subject to the heart affection, the physician advised her to cease traveling for a time; so they returned home by the way of P--, and took lodging in a hotel superintended by a former acquaintance of Annie's. Here they met with kind treatment. While at P--, they visited the cemetery in which slept her nephew, who had breathed his last in her room, while she was boarding at Mr. W--'s hotel. 
               As she glanced over that burial ground, her heart grew sad as she read there so many familiar names-so many of her young friends quietly sleeping the last long sleep of death. There rested the young and wealthy-those who had borne her in their aims, and those who had been an ornament in society-possessing all the qualifications of refinement and usefulness; all, all passed away. She gazed in melancholy awe, and wondered why it was that she remained to struggle on while the most useful were taken. But God's ways are not our ways, and he wills all for the best. Sadly she left this place, around which so many fond memories clung. 
               As they came through Shiloh, a few miles east of P--, she saw for the last time her old friend Mr. W--, who had so befriended her when all others seemed turned against her. He was much rejoiced to see her, and she was ever thankful to God for the privilege to stop with him, for in a few months after the sad tidings came that he was no more. From this she started for Lily's, and by the time she arrived there she was reduced to a mere skeleton; so near exhausted in strength was she that they thought she must have been ill. Here she remained awhile; but she must be doing something. What could she do? While in town she was sick so much that it consumed all, and more than all, she was able to earn. Fanny wished her to go out sewing by the week; but her own relatives had always considered her so much trouble that she doubted if any one would be willing to pay her wages and wait on her. Fanny proposed that she should go with her, and she would wait on her; but Annie feared that she would become tired of her, as she usually had done. 
               One evening Mr. Huvy came after her, and she went with him, as Fanny was there, but told Fanny at the end of the first week that she could not remain another week, as she felt so sad; but Mrs. H-- insisted on her staying, and she remained there four weeks, and at the close of that time felt perfectly at home, for they were such dear people, and tried every means to cheer her drooping spirits. From there she went to Mr. Dover's where she was also treated with the greatest kindness. Mrs. D-- always took special pains to let every one know that Annie was but little trouble in the house. They had a sweet daughter just entering society, who was a lovely singer, and she would entertain Annie with music on the piano, then they together would sing, and thus the evenings were pleasantly spent. Annie was treated more as a visitor than a seamstress in the family. The children would gather around her, and all attention was paid her. And this was the treatment she received every where she went. But time and space will not permit me to enter into a detail of all the merits due the good people in this section of Ashland county, but may God reward them for their kindness to this poor, forsaken cripple. She had her regular places for sewing, and when she was with the Hudson, Clarence or Huvy families, particularly, she had but to make known that she wished to go any place, and conveyances were ready to take her. And could she then have heard from him who was now far distant, she would have thought her enjoyment complete; but all she could learn of him was that he had gone to the army. Where he was she could not ascertain, but prayed that he might not become a cripple, hoping that God would take care of him for his kindness to her. 
                
               She had been sick so frequently at Mr. Clarence's that she was surprised to see them come after her again. It was in the winter season; she was there, and was sick, as usual, and sometimes she thought it impossible for her to live, though she still sewed some during the day, and at night her sufferings were so great that her mind wandered, and she would moan and talk all night. One morning she was scarcely able to leave the bed, but by the aid of their daughter, she arose. When Mrs. C-- saw that she was up, she said, "Are you up, Annie?" 
               "Yes," replied Annie "though I am scarcely able to be up." 
               "Well," said Mrs. C--, you grunted and kept fuss enough during the night!" at the same time glancing at her daughter and laughing. 
               Annie felt like sinking through the floor. She then thought if only she had some place of her own, that she would not be so much in the way when sick, or that God would take her to himself. Yet I must not pass by their unceasing kindness to her. Mr. C-- would rise all hours of the night, and bring her medicine and water to drink, as his wife was not in a state of health to do so, though she willingly did all in her power for Annie, and I merely mention this to show how frequently our feelings are wounded by remarks which, perhaps, are not designed to wound the feelings, yet the pang is none the less keen. Then how careful ought we to be, in word or act, not to wound the feelings of the poor and afflicted, for when the body is suffering, the mind is weak, the feelings are sensitive, and only those we love can pierce the heart most deep; and, as the poet says- 
               "A word in kindness spoken-a motion or a tear, Has often healed a heart that's broken, And made a friend sincere." 
               Annie procured some laudanum, and kept herself under its influence during the night. This merely subdued the extreme pain, but did not remove the cause. While she remained here, she was again reminded of Lily's former kindness by the two oldest children bringing various kinds of relishing victuals, prepared by-their mother. Oh, how these little acts of kindness sank deep in her heart, as her mind, wandered back to the days of their childhood, when her much loved sister-yes, more than sister-Lily had been to her, and thought of her unceasing kindness to one who was unable to do for herself, and now she renewed those precious memories. 
               No matter what kind of weather, the loving ones would come to see how she was. Then Annie would offer up a deep and silent prayer, that God would bless them all. Lily then took her home, and watched over her as tenderly as an affectionate mother would her own child. George was also kind to her. After many days and nights, she got better, but spent another suffering year. In the spring Annie took her laudanum bottle, and started on her regular working tour. She worked in extreme pain all tie time, and under the influence of slow poison most constantly, as you might well term it, for thought eased her pain for a time, it was deliberately wearing her life away. Her employers were not aware that she was suffering as much as she was, for she always endeavored to appear well, lest no one would be willing to employ her, but she could not entirely conceal it, and frequently remarked that she knew not why, they did come after her, for she had never been any place but she would be sick for a while, and they would have trouble with her; yet she had great reason to be thankful, for they came after and gave her the highest wages. She always made it a rule to see after Lily, and the children would never neglect their sewing when she could possibly help it, but she was kept so busy that they were sometimes compelled to wait quite a while, which often grieved her. She could not, as a general thing, get time to make her own clothes. Had she possessed better health, she might have laid up money, but she broke down entirely. 
               While Annie was serving at one of her places of work, Lily's oldest daughter came over one pleasant evening in November, and running in, her bright eyes sparkling with joy, said: "Annie, Annie, did you hear the good news? Frank is in A--, and wishes to see you. He told pa to tell you to write, and inform him where to meet you," 
               Annie was overjoyed to hear this, yet said but little. She wrote to him immediately, but feared that it was then too late, for it had then been two weeks since Mr. G-- saw him. Mrs. C-- the lady for whom she was then working, spared no pains to have the letter sent away soon, as she had formed a very high opinion of him from what had been told her. Thus he received the note in due time, and the next Sunday they met at Lily's. 
               But oh, what changes were visible in Annie's long lost friend! His jet black curls which hung in rich profusion over his head, were now mixed with gray, through exposure and sickness; and though just five years had elapsed since she last saw him, it seemed that time had done the work of ten years on his manly form; then the melancholy which appeared to be settled on his mind, grieved Annie to behold. "Hope is the anchor of the soul," says an eminent writer. That anchor was taken from him, his fond love disappeared, his health gone, and he felt a mere wreck of human happiness. Maud had discovered her error when too late, and passed from this earth broken hearted. She wrote to Annie shortly before she breathed her last, that if she ever should see Frank, she would tell him that she loved him to the last, and deeply regretted the step she had taken, but wished him to forgive her, and prepare to meet her in heaven. He wept bitterly when Annie told him this, and said that he had already forgiven her. He remained with Annie until Monday, then went a part of the way with her to her work, and left her, promising to call again ere he started to M--, where his parents resided. 
               Annie was then making some very fine dresses, and, as all wished their work finished fashionably, she had to go down to A-- and procure the latest patterns. As the weather was very pleasant, and the people were all busily engaged in storing away their corn, Elva Garland, (Lily's oldest daughter), and Ida Clarence proposed to take her down in her little buggy. Annie thought this-quite an undertaking for the little girls, as it was full three miles from where she was; but, as she could get no other conveyance at the time, she concluded to venture. She went to a millinery shop, in the first place, procured the patterns she wished, and then went to Mr. Grey's store to purchase some articles. Mr. Grey was not in the store, but his father and partner, Peter Spindle, were waiting on the customers. The old gentleman came first to Annie. His voice was somewhat broken, and she being hard of hearing, could not very well understand what he said to her. She looked at a piece of linsey cloth, and, inquiring the price, understood him to say that it was eighteen cents per yard. She told him to cut off a certain quantity, which he did, and then went to attend business at the other end of the store, and Mr. Spindle came to receive the pay. She handed him a five dollar bill, and when he gave her the change she observed that he charged her eighty cents per yard. She told him that she understood Mr. Grey to say that it was but eighteen cents per yard, and that if it was eighty cents, she could not afford to buy it. She then turned to the two little girls who were with her, and a lady who carried her in, and asked them if they knew what the old gentleman had told her. They all thought the same as she did. Mrs. T-- then said that she was almost certain that he had said it was eighteen cents per yard; but, as it was just a shirt pattern, perhaps he would take it back. Annie made this proposition to him, but said if he did not wish to accept it he need not do so-that she would take calico in exchange. He replied that he could, yet made no move to give her either the money or the calico. It was growing late, and she saw that the material was not worth the price they asked for it, as it was very thin and narrow. So she said to the merchant: "Mr. Spindle, I am in a hurry to finish, my trading, for the little girls who came with me will have to draw me three miles to-night." He was talking nonsense with some ladies who were in the store, (for he knew better how to do this than to treat people respectfully). He gruffly replied: "We have no time to bother or trade with you to-night." 
               "Very well," said Annie, "that will do. It will not take, you long to hand me over the money, and then I will go up to Claud Collins' store. He never gets so busy that he cannot wait. on me." 
               Annie's feelings were touched-as Mr. Grey had always been very kind to her, and she did not expect such treatment at his store-though she did not give vent to her feelings then. She told Mr. S-- that she had made an agreement with Mr. Grey to trade at his store, but as they were so busy there she would not trouble them any longer. The merchant thought such conduct would not reflect much credit on his character, so he began drawing down piece after piece of calico goods, but Annie told him it was useless labor, for she would not buy anything there; and when he found that he could not undo what he had done, he handed her the money, and she turned to go. Just then Frank entered the store, as he had heard of her being in town, and came to seek her in this store. He carried her out; but her heart was almost breaking, for she knew that if she had been able to walk she would not have been so disgracefully insulted-for she had always paid for what she got. 
               Her friend would not hear of her going back that night, as he said the night air would injure her health, and that if she would remain in town until morning he would go along and help the little girls take her home. She consented to stay, and they went to Mr. Ford's. Frank took tea with them, and spent the evening there; and the next morning came to take her home. 
               Annie went first to Mr. Collins' store. He met her smilingly, and said: "I am glad to see you. I thought you were never coming here any more; that you were trading in Mr. Grey's store. But, then," added he, "Mr. Grey must live, too. This was like a healing balm to Annie's heart, though she knew that this was said only that she would feel that she had friends. Yet, from the first, he manifested so much sympathy towards her. We will also here notice his worthy and much esteemed clerk, Mr. P--, who also showed great sympathy for her, and always endeavored to make her feel that she was regarded as possessing a good character. Mr. Collins afterward sold out his dry goods store, and Mr. S-- obtained a situation in another store. Annie followed after, and ever made it a rule to deal with him alone who had been so kind to her, as she did not frequently meet with clerks who treated her as he had done, and possessed such true principles as he. She frequently prayed God to bless him, and wished that he might never want, for he who deals out favors so graciously to others cannot but merits the approbation of his Divine Master. Oh, may such a noble man meet the reward, when in this world, of a peaceful mind, and his days ever be gilded with life's brightest sunshine, and when he goes down to his grave, may he meet a glorious welcome from the land of bliss. 
               But we must return to our little company traveling home. Frank went with then, and was received by Mrs. C--'s as an old acquaintance for she respected him for his kindness to Annie. As she had seen his miniature, (enclosed in a locket), which Annie kept treasured up among her most precious things, she almost thought of him as an old friend, his face seemed so familiar. Indeed the family all formed quite an attachment to him before he left, as they ever did to any one that was kind to Annie. 
               They were alone most of the time, for which they were thankful, as Annie had many messages from Maud, which none but Frank were to hear. They talked on about the past, until Annie observed him gazing on her with the same melancholy look that she noticed when first she met him. he was first to break the silence, and said: "I was just thinking how happy we would be if it had been so ordered that we could again enjoy each other's society as we did in A--. But Maud is gone, I hope, where she enjoys herself better. My path is far from here, and I never expect to be happy again." 
               Annie replied: "You may find many that you can enjoy yourself with better than you did with us." 
               He said: "But how many do we find who possess that true nobility of soul so essential to human happiness? In you I have found what I have not found in many-a true and noble friend. And Maud was a lovely girl. Her only failing was a want of firmness. She was too easily governed by her associates. But she would have made the man of her choice happy, for her merry laugh and cheerful countenance shed a ray of sunshine wherever she was." He then arose, walked twice across the floor, then turned to Annie, and said: "I am going now, but will write soon-Good-bye; God bless you." He then shut the door. 
               Annie felt sad as she ever did, at parting with those who had so kindly treated her. Mrs. C-- said that she hoped he would come back again; but that was the last they ever saw of him. He wrote three letters to Annie; then came the word that he had started for California, fell in with a tribe of Indians, and was supposed to have been killed. But he was never forgotten by Annie, and none so deeply mourned his fate as her and his heart-broken mother. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               LILY'S husband had just bought a farm, (as he had lived on the homestead farm until now), and Fanny was going with them, as there were two houses on the farm, and she was going to occupy one of them, so that she would be near Lily; and Annie also went with them. 
               It was indeed a beautiful home, but was situated in a vicinity which excited no enterprise for mental improvement. Work and accumulating wealth was the order of the day. They imagined that if you sent your sons and daughters to anything but a common, district school, you were fitting them out for the penitentiary. Annie wondered how long they could withhold this greatest of blessings from their families-a good education. She valued it far above the wealth of California. It fits the mind to understand God's word. And where do you generally find the uneducated youth? Either a slave to this world, or amidst the haunts of vice. 
               Annie remained with them until July, and then returned to her old friends near A--, where she was to sew for Mr. Huvey's, as they were going to Iowa, and had sent for her to come and sew for them before they would move. But when she came to Mr. Clarence's, there were so many calls she knew not where to go first; but she stopped a while with them, and then went to Huvey's. Oh, how sad she felt when she had finished the last garment, to think that it was altogether likely that it was the last she would ever make for them, as she had spent many happy days in that happy family. 
               From there she went to Mr. Elet's. While there she received a letter bearing her the sad tidings that Prudence was no more. This was sad news for Annie, as she had intended to visit her some time soon; but now they would never meet in this world. 
               Now another dark cloud covered her sky. Her friends were turning against her because she could not serve all at once, though she endeavored to serve them equally. Through their ungrateful remarks she became melancholy, and this increased on her until she was driven almost to despair-but kept all to herself. She returned to Mr. Clarence's feeling so sad at what was told her, that she thought it impossible for her to work. She thought that God had forsaken her, or things would not go so strangely. Everywhere she went the people were pleasant, but she had been told so much that it, did not seem like friendship to her; and often she wished that she might not hear these remarks, for it grieved her to think that those professing friendship were false. She dearly loved her friends, but despised deception; but, was she kindly treated by one, it was not a little that would cause her to turn against that friend. 
               One night after the family had all retired she was sitting alone, as she was obliged to stay up late that she could keep her engagements with people, for almost every where she went there was more work awaiting her than she knew of; then they would think that they had a right to hold her until the work was all finished. This time she had been told that she had broken her word; 'this made her feel sad, and her life seemed a burthen too great to bear. She thought her friends had forsaken her as the church had done; that she had in some way displeased her God, or this would not be. She contemplated these things until her agony of mind became so great that visions too horrible to relate arose before her. She went to her lonely bed, and there found a momentary relief in tears, then sank into a troubled sleep, which was interrupted by the following remarkable dream. We here insert it, as related by herself afterwards: 
               "I dreamed that I was in a strange land; and above me was hanging a dark and threatening aloud. I looked around thinking to find some one near to help me; but seeing no one near, my distress was beyond description. Again I looked around, and began to seek some means of escape. This time I beheld a fair youth approaching me. He was in form like a man, but no one I had ever seen resembled him. I thought this must be an angel sent from God. His eyes were of a blue color, and he was beautifully fair. He knelt by my side, and said: "Look up, and have faith." I gazed upward, and the cloud was broken, and the sky was perfectly clear. Still the fair stranger staid by my side. Again the dark cloud arose from the horizon, and again it disappeared, and my ears were greeted with music such as I never before heard." 
               From this until morning she slept calmly, and then she arose her countenance was illuminated with a joyful expression. Mrs. C-- inquired that had transpired to make her so happy. She elated her dream. 
               "Oh," said she, "Frank is living, and is coming back." 
               "No," replied Annie, "It is not for him, for I never saw any one which he in the least resembled." 
               She remained here a few days, and then went to Mr. Hudson's. She was sorrowful for many reasons, and one predominant one was, that those dear people had also sold out, and intended moving to Iowa; and she felt that she was to be left like the last rose of summer, to pine away and die. Mrs. H-- was unusually kind, and Annie felt the more sad to think of parting so soon with her, for she had become very much attached to her. 
               In the evening, as she sat in the room pondering over her sorrows, and was in rather a melancholy mood, she heard a merry laugh in the hall, and soon a young man stepped into the room. He bowed genteelly, and then passed on to his own room; but ere he was gone Annie scanned him from head to foot. He wore a fur cap, and a shawl, carelessly thrown over his shoulders. Yet she caught a glimpse of his dark blue eyes and fair face, while on his one cheek she observed a hectic tinge of pink, which made his looks more feminine and beautiful. Here she was reminded of the youth in her dream; yet she made no remark to any one then. After tea he brought some carte de visites, and knelt beside her-as did the fair youth in her dream- showed them to her, and talked kindly to her, seeming to sympathize with her in her afflictions, which always attached her to any one. She looked at him. He appeared to be but a boy, and apparently had been brought up in high life. She wondered why he tried to make her happy. His keen apprehension soon detected sadness in her countenance, and he exerted every means to make her happy. He was exceedingly fond of music, and it seemed that music and his God were all his soul's delight. And often, when he saw that she was sad, his voice rang out in silver peals, accompanied by the mournful notes of the piano; and if he succeeded in casting a gleam of light across her gloomy heart, he seemed almost ecstatic with joy. The next morning after Annie first met him, he took the family Bible, read a chapter, and then offered up a heart-felt prayer. Now she knew why he so deeply sympathized with her. He loved God-and true religion teaches us to sympathize with the afflicted. 
               The third evening after she came there, she handed him a book, and told him to read that, and he would then see what a broken heart was. He said: "I hope there are none such to be found." 
               "What is a broken heart?" said Annie. 
                
               "It is one who has no pleasure on the earth, and has lost all hope of heaven," said he. 
               "I am such an one," said Annie. 
               He gave her such an appealing look that seemed to pierce her very soul, and said: "O, how can you speak so calmly? 
               She replied, smiling faintly: "What good would it do me to speak otherwise?" 
               This so affected him that it grieved her to see the feelings so wounded of one so young and free from trouble. She felt that she had offended God. After a while she attempted to talk to him on the subject, but became so confused as to be unable to articulate one appropriate word of explanation. He did not interrupt her, but endeavored to have her lay hold on the precious promises. It was a lovely sight to behold one so young bearing the blessed cross of Christ, and walking in the path of truth and holiness. He thought it was impossible that she had not been in the house of God for two long years. This was partly her own fault, for she had become so cast down that she did not wish to go. But Mrs. H-- and this young gentleman-whom we shall name Charley Ashnerst-finally prevailed on her, and she went frequently while there. Charley was so winning and childlike in his way that she could not refuse. 
                
               The first evening that she ventured to go, she was unusually quiet, and he remarked that she was rather a quiet companion. She replied that she was just wishing that she was in the house. He said that she need not trouble herself about that, for he would as leave carry her in as not, though as yet he knew nothing about it. She did not doubt his sincerity, but thought him so young that he would attract every eye; and, besides, we were strangers in the place. Thus she pondered until they arrived at the church door. He kindly took her up and' carried her in, and found her a seat near the pulpit. Annie felt sorry for him, as she knew it must be a cross which he willingly bore for the sake of drawing her back to the fold of Christ, and cause her to think that God had not forsaken her. Perhaps he would have preferred not to take her; but he felt an interest in her soul's salvation, and this enabled him to bear the cross for his Lord and Master. And when his associations led him among the young and gay, he was ever prompting them to the redeemer of the world. So long as he was near Annie, he always contrived some way that she would get to church, and there was nothing he could do for her that was left undone; and everything was done with so much cheerfulness that the act was made doubly dear to her. He not only had her attend church, but took special pains in having her go to other places for amusement; and, as there was a good quantity of sleighing, he saw that she would enjoy it, and have the time pass pleasantly to her. His words were so kind that she was often affected to tears, but they were tears of gratitude. She looked on this as a blessing from on High, and, if she did not profit by it, God would hold her accountable. Often, as she gazed upon him, she thought how happy the mother of such a noble-hearted boy must be, and prayed that he might be permitted to live to a good old age to do good. But, as she beheld his pale features, she sometimes thought that he would not long remain here, as he seemed too pure for this sinful world. 
               One evening, when he carried her into church, he was obliged to stop in the aisle of the church, as it was very much crowded, and stood for some time awaiting an opportunity to put her down. A lady observed him, and asked her if that sweet boy was her brother. Annie said he was not, but a painful sensation flitted over her heart as the sound of that dear word-brother-greeted her ears, for she never had known her own brothers to treat her as this dear boy had done. She now began to feel the worth of a good, kind brother. 
                
               Mr. and Mrs. H-- had always been kind to her, but now their attention seemed tenfold greater. Was it really so, or was it the kindness of this fair youth that had so softened her heart as to make her appreciate their kindness more fully? They were a lovely couple, and one of that number whose union is sanctioned in heaven. Wherever they went they strewed happiness around them. 
               From here Annie went to Mr. Melville's, who resided but a short distance from Mr. Hudson's. They were dear people, and were kind to her; but she was sad to part with people who had made time pass so pleasantly while she was with them. 
               We have omitted the name of a sweet, black-eyed, young lady who was in the family. She, too, was a follower of Christ, and, as such, failed not to do her part in making Annie happy. Yes, Annie, as a lover of youthful Christians, was loth to lose the sweet associations of Kate and Charley Ashnerst, the youth who was stopping at Mr. Hudson's. These two young Christians had broken the spell which bound her soul to darkness-and could it be that she must now leave them? 
               How lovely is the path of young followers of the holy Lamb of God! It pictures to our imagination the beauty and purity of the angels in Paradise. Oh, why do not all fall in with this delightful band! From here she went to Mr. Melville's, and was not long there until she was enjoying herself extremely well. They had a daughter who professed all the qualities of a true lady, and delighted in making her associates happy. Mrs. M-- was one of those whole souled mothers who live for the purpose of making others happy. Annie's health was still not improving, but every thing was done for her that could tend to make her happy. 
               A number of their friends came in one evening, to spend the evening, among which was a lady-or a woman rather, for a true lady will not conduct herself as she did-who seemed to think that her keeping was all in her own hand. Though God had placed that hidden mark upon her features, usually the result of small-pox, no doubt to have her think otherwise, perhaps she imagined that the gold with which she had been so bountifully blessed would conceal this mark from the eyes of the world; at least prevent the disfigured appearance of her face from disturbing others, as the sight of the poor deformed seamstress did on the evening of the social party at Mr. M--'s. She affected to be very much disgusted, but this did not prevent her eating a good quantity of the turkey which the kind lady of the house prepared for supper. She had frequently met Annie before this, but had treated her disdainfully, and now her conduct was equally. unladylike. 
               But few who were there spoke to Annie, for they must all comply with the wishes of this disdainful woman, who seemed to be the reigning queen among them. Annie felt sad, and thought of her young friend at Mrs. H--'s, and silently besought God to bless him, that he would ever maintain such pure and noble principles. The Melville family were mortified that she should receive such treatment in their house, but Annie knew this lady too well to expect any thing better of her. Perhaps if she had not possessed such quick apprehension, and had not watched the proceedings so closely, her feelings might not have been so sensibly touched. 
               Her friends saw that her health was still declining, and advised her either to have a physician brought there, or be taken to one. She thought it rather expensive to have one brought there, so one morning her young friend, Mr. Ashnerst, came over and notified her that Mr. Hudson would be there in a short time to take her to A--, where she could see a physician. They took her to a milliner shop, where she had been kindly treated, and sent for Dr. G--. He came, and after examination, went and brought her different kinds of medicine, such as he thought she needed. She wished to pay him, but he said, "I would think it wicked of any one to charge you any thing; and you can tell all who do charge you that I said it was wicked." 
               Annie smiled and said, "There are a great many wicked doctors, then, for I have paid out many a dollar for medicine." 
               God loves the liberal giver, and this kind man will in some way be rewarded for the interest he then manifested in easing her misery; for she came not to him expecting to be made perfectly well. Equal merit is due to Dr. D--, another physician in A--. He also gave her medicine free, and seemed perfectly rejoiced when he had succeeded in easing her pain. He, too, deserves a prominent place among the choicest of her friends, and they will, undoubtedly all receive a bright reward from him who watches our actions. Mrs. Hudson took her home with her, as she thought she would have more time to attend to her, but Mr. Melville did not forget her. They came frequently to see her while she was sick. 
               Her young friend, Charley Ashnerst, had also been very ill, and for a few days they feared that he was not long for this world. This grieved Annie, though she knew that their loss would be his eternal gain, yet in her selfish nature she was sorry to think of parting with him; and when she saw him change for the better, she was rejoiced to know that he would be left a little while longer to do good to those around him. 
               When she had recovered sufficiently, she concluded to go to Lily's, and Mrs. H-- and Charley proposed to take her. Charley was not, by any means, well, for the morning they started for Lily's, his face was pale and death-like, yet he seemed cheerful. 
               When the parting time came, Annie was exceedingly sorry to part with this dear family, and only then did she realize how much she loved them, and she knew that this would be the last time she would be permitted to see them for some time, if ever. Mrs. H-- and Charley took her to Lily's-and then came another trial when she bade them farewell. She was sorry to think that now her enjoyment was over with them all. She also loved her young friend as a mother loves a child, so kind and unpretending was he, though yet so young. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               FOR a few days Annie's health was better, but another scene of suffering was before her. First she observed what seemed to be a pimple on one of the fingers of her right hand, accompanied by a stinging sensation at the end of her finger, as if being pricked with a needle. This pain increased, and in a few days, to all appearances, she would be deprived of the only useful hand she had. This alarmed her, and she felt that she had done wrong in murmuring because she was obliged to sew for a living. She vowed then that if God would spare her hand, she would serve him better than ever before. At last her finger became so painful that it was necessary to call in a physician. Annie soon saw when he came that he entertained but little hope of its recovery, but he said he would do all in his power to save her hand. Lily and her husband also did all they could for her, though they, and all who saw her, thought her sufferings were nearly over in this world. But she was willing to go, for she now had a hope of a better land, and was happy. Again in the midst of her sufferings ferings, her thoughts turned to Frank Forest, who was gone she knew not where, and though gone, she ever remembered his kindness to her. 
               Her finger became better, but for months she was unable to sew, and she feared she never again would enjoy the privilege of sewing; but Lily's increasing kindness, and encouraging letters from distant loved ones, bore her desponding spirits up. As Lily's health was not good, her mother concluded to remain with her. She, too, labored to have the time pass pleasantly to Annie, for she had long since learned that her afflicted sister was of more benefit in the world than she at first imagined. Thus she endeavored to make up for everything she had ever said or done to wound Annie's feelings, by treating her kindly now when that sympathy was so much needed. Annie's friends had requested her to have a negative drawn for a photograph. She had not, as yet, been able, but now she thought she might attend to it, and she wished to give one to each of her friends. She went to A--, as it was the most convenient place, and again met Mr. Ashnerst, and again his kindness was renewed, as he ever had treated her respectfully. Tie was another angel of light, whom God had sent to cheer her lonely path for a little while. Had we more such youths, how happy this world would be, and how much better could the afflicted bear their afflictions! 
               Annie returned again to Lily's to finish some sewing, and then went to Wayne county to attend to some business. Fanny remained there until the fall work was finished. She had taken an unusual interest in the work during the entire summer and fall and was unwilling to leave until everything was nicely stowed away for winter. But she was never to enjoy the work of her hands. Annie had been but three weeks in Wayne county, when a gentleman came and told her that Fanny was dead. Oh, how that pierced: her heart! for she feared that Fanny had overworked herself, for they informed her that apoplexy was the cause of her death. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Stevens went with her, and when they got there they found Lily almost heartbroken-for her mother had ever been a good mother-but now she had passed from life without a moment's warning, that she might leave an evidence of her hopes for a better world. Yet her countenance was serene, and she lay as if asleep, and some pleasant vision of the heavenly land had intercepted her slumbers. Her Christian walk during the latter part of her life gave evidence that her soul was at rest. As Annie gazed upon that calm face, her thoughts wandered dered back to the last night she spent with her poor sister. They together sat up until three o'clock in the morning, and as they conversed on the probability of their never meeting again, she said that she was willing to die, for this life had been a constant scene of sorrow. This gave Annie a hope for her future welfare. She also said that Annie should do all she could for Lily and the children; and she would have a will drawn up authorizing her to settle her accounts, and stating what was to be done with the money. But, though she seemed to have a presentment of her speedy departure, she neglected the will; and when death came to summons her away so suddenly, her will was yet unformed on paper-and Annie did not know whether a verbal will would stand or not. She knew that, according to law, it would not; but Lily, in her kindness, said that all should be as was her mother's desire. 
               It was a melancholy sight to behold the work of her hands, as she lay cold and still in death. She had busied herself during the summer preparing delicacies of various kinds; stored away apples for the family; and, after her burial, the. table was literally covered with the works of her hands. 
               After all was over, Lily wished Annie to remain main with her a while, and Annie was sorry that it could not be so, for she saw the importance of providing something for her own support, and, having then entered upon important business, she must sacrifice her inclination for a while. 
               It is right for all to do so; for, if you are unable to maintain yourself, depend upon it, your best friends will become weary of you. So, my advice to one and all is, work whilst it is day, and lay up for the future as much as layeth in your power. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
