
    ----CITATION----
        Bridges, James.. The Collier's Tale .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5889
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
             
          
          
             
             
               THE COLLIER'S TALE: 
               A True History. 
             
            BY JAMES BRIDGES, ESQ.
             
             
                
                  
                     "The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble, and He knoweth them that trust in Him."
                   
                  -NAHUM, i. 7. 
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               ROBERT CARTER & BROTHERS,  
                     No. 285 BROADWAY. 
                  
               
             
            1853. 
          
          
             
            Preface. 
            MR. LEGH RICHMOND'S Tract of "The Collier Boy and his Candle-box," contains an account of the destruction of seventy-five persons in the Heaton Main Colliery, near Newcastle-upon-Tyne, on the 3d of May, 1815. Of these sufferers, a portion remained alive for a time after the occurrence of the accident. But of their experiences during that interval, no record remains save the Candle-box of William Thew, on which were found scratched these interesting words: "Fret not dear Mother For we were singing while we had time and praising God Mother Folow God more than ever i did." 
            "It is probable, however," adds Mr. Richmond, in speculating upon the occupations of these imprisoned souls, "that the pious men would employ their time in exhorting those who were irreligious, to repentance and faith in Christ." 
            What in that instance was considered probable, we shall find in the event here related to have actually occurred; for here the sufferers, after thirty-six hours' burial in the bowels of the earth, were delivered from that death of which they had been, during this long period, in continual expectation, and their actual experiences are accurately known and set down. Peter Hay, one of their own number, and the leader of their religious exercises, has given an account of them, which is verified by all the rest. He still lives in the village of Millerhill, where he is now an elder of the Kirk; and it is interesting to add, that, by the choice of the people, he has recently been set apart as Catechist of that village and the adjoining ones of Adams' Row and Old and New Craighall, the residences of the colliers in the employment of Sir John Hope, of Pinkie, Bart., M.P. 
            Should this record of his subterraneous teachings prove useful to any one suffering under affliction, or exposed to danger, the Collier will be recompensed for his hardships, and the Editor for his trouble. 
            
               EDINBURGH, November, 1846.
             
             
          
       
      
         
            The collier's tale 
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               The Collier's Tale. 
               ON a rising ground near the junction of the Musselburgh and Dalkeith Railways leading into Edinburgh, there stood, some years ago, a Steam-engine house attached to a Coal-pit on the farm of Whitehill Mains, called the High Pressure pit. 
               On the morning of Sunday the 9th of March 1839, a crowd of people were seen gathered round the mouth of this pit busily engaged, and all in a state of apparent anxiety and alarm. It turned out, that the night before, thirteen colliers, men, women, and children, had gone down for their ordinary work; but had not been long below, when a loud and hollow rumbling noise was heard; the sides of the pit appeared to be giving way; and in a short while, first one, and then another, fearful shoot of earth, rubbish, and stones, from about midway, came thundering down. 
               The mass fell to the bottom; the pit became choked up to within thirty fathoms of the surface; and the colliers above became aware that thirteen of their comrades, kinsfolk, and friends, were buried three hundred and sixty feet down in the bowels of the earth. 
               The alarm quickly spread over the countryside; the tidings flew from village to village; and speedily numbers came in from Millerhill and Hungrymouth, Craighall and Adam's Row, as well as from Wanton-Walls, the Muckletts, Drythrapple, the Cowpits, and, indeed, from the whole neighborhood, all animated with a desire to exert themselves to the uttermost for the deliverance of the imprisoned sufferers. It was believed that these were still alive, for the pit was old, and the workings below were extensive. There would, therefore, it was supposed, be a considerable temporary supply of air; and this possibly might be more or less renewed from a pit lying in a beautiful sequestered questered dell between Whitehill and Shaw-fair in the neighborhood, called the Back Dean, which had been for a good while abandoned, but which was known to communicate with the other by a long narrow passage or Air-gate,
                     Gate, in Scotch, signifies Way.
                   as it is called, of nearly a mile in length. One detachment of laborers forthwith descended, in order to set about clearing out the rubbish from the choked pit, and another went to the Back Dean, to establish, if possible, an under-ground communication between the two pits. These last went forward as far as they could; but the roof of the Air-gate had in various places sitten down. The water also had risen upon it, and they were forced to abandon their purpose; for so foul was the air, that no man descending from the upper air, or rather, it may be said, no man whatever, could breathe it. They called aloud, and listened carefully for the voices of their friends; but no returning sound broke the dead silence around. The others, who were clearing out the choked pit from above, were placed in unexpected difficulties, by the danger of new shoots, which now became apparent; and, therefore, measures were taken to construct a Crib, or large wooden drum-like instrument, fitting closely to the shape of the pit, to be let down, and lengthened as it descended, so as to fortify the sides of the pit, and make the descent of the workmen safe. 
               Here again, however, difficulties increased; for the enormous quantity of the rubbish, and the great depth of it, rendered its removal, in time to be beneficial to the prisoners below, almost hopeless. The closeness, also, of the Air-gate, at the Back Dean end, proved that no external supply of air could reach them at its other and distant extremity. But in such circumstances, to hope against hope, and to labor in the face of difficulties, or even supposed impossibilities, became duty. The owners of the pit, also, Messrs. Stenhouse, were indefatigable in their exertions, and abounded in kindness and encouragement to the laborers, who all combined to work with energy. 
                
                
               
                   
                      
                  
                
                
               How, meanwhile, fared it with the wives, and the husbands, and the children, and the fathers, and the mothers, and the brothers, and the sisters, and the kinsfolk, and the friends and acquaintances of the thirteen sufferers? Their houses lay in the adjoining villages of Millerhill and Adam's Row; and in these, indeed, "was there a voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great mourning." In the first house which the writer of this notice visited on that dismal forenoon, a house tidy and well swept, with a good fire within, and clear sunshine gleaming in through the little casement from without, and with an air of comfort contrasting strangely with the distress that reigned around, sat an aged man and woman, some of whose younger relatives were among the buried, quiet, steady, and collected, but with a settled expression of grief resting on their faces. Into this house had also come some of the neighbors, to discourse concerning the common calamity; particularly one or two younger lads who had relations among the buried. And when the friend that called had sat awhile comforting them out of the Bible, others, hearing of this, dropped in; and all seemed earnest to betake themselves to God, who alone, it was felt, could help in this hour of their extremity. Whether it arose from the familiar hazards of a collier's life, known and experienced in that company, or from any other cause better or worse, there was no violence in the grief that abounded; but what their grief wanted in animation and words, it probably possessed in depth and intensity; and, accordingly, there was a disposition to listen with earnestness to the dealings of God in his people's extremities, as these were expounded to them in the cases of Daniel in the lions' den, and Jonah in the belly of the whale, and as they were exhibited in the 130th and 69th Psalms; portions of Scripture which, it will be seen, were at the very same instant being used for the like ends at the bottom of the pit. 
               The other houses of the sufferers and their friends in the villages all more or less resembled that which has been described, and it is needless to describe them. One only shall be mentioned. It was a remarkably neat and well-conditioned cottage, consisting of a single apartment, with its nice new bed, chest of drawers and eight-day clock, and its homely glazed prints of Thomson's Seasons, and the Prodigal Son, hung around. Here on that nice bed, lay stretched at full length, in a state of utter insensibility, a young woman recently married to one of the unhappy men below, from whom she had parted but the night before, in his usual health. To her neither the words of Divine truth nor of worldly comfort obtained any access. She was stupefied by the blow, and insensible, and time alone, under Divine Providence, could restore her. 
               By this time, the day being far advanced, the hope of the sufferers' safety had greatly diminished among the parties engaged at the pit mouth, and, in some cases, had given place to despair, because it was believed that the air below must now be too foul to sustain either light or life. But among the people of the coal villages there was more hope; and all agreed that, at any rate, it was the business of those on the surface of the earth to pray to God, and to wrestle with him for the preservation of those below. Accordingly, it is believed, that in very many houses there, Bible reading, praise, and prayer, were much resorted to throughout the whole of that eventful day. 
               The day rolled on, night came, and no appearance of deliverance came with it. Many speculations were afloat as to the condition of those below. Some pictured them dead in each other's arms, or gasping for breath amidst the coal wastes to which they had crept in their vain search for air. Some saw them sunk in the depths of passive despondency, or cursing their lot in the paroxysms of their violent despair. All yielded more or less to fears for the issue of the dreadful adventure. Not a few, however, mingled or overcame their fears with the hope, that, through the mercy of God, more or less of their number might yet, after all, be spared. But more indulged in this expectation from a desire, than from a belief, that it might be so. All felt, that every hour, as it passed along, shut up the door of hope more firmly against the buried. 
               What, then, was the state of these prisoners themselves during this long period of alternate fear and hope, and exertion and suspense above? The question shall be answered in the words of one of their own number, Peter Hay of Millerhill, a man whose character shall be left to be inferred from what he is now to be brought forward to relate of the adventures of these two awful nights and awful day. His account was taken down in short-hand from his own lips soon after the date of the occurrence, by the Editor of this tract, who desires to adhere to Peter's own words, rather than garnish his tale with finer expressions; believing that the simplicity of nature, and the raciness of the primitive vernacular, will prove more effective than the arts of rhetoric, or decorations of a purer dialect. He would only call attention, before relating Peter's words, to that worthy person's modesty, who, avoiding the vain-glorious "I," in the account he gives of his addresses to his fellow-sufferers, prefaces them with the more humble "It was observed," instead. 
               "Our pit," says Peter Hay, "was called the High Pressure pit; and according to the regulations, we went down about eight o'clock at night, on that awful Friday, to engage in our lawful employment, which was that of preparing roads for carrying the coals to the pit bottom. There were of Adam's Row men, John Nicolson, the gatesman, whose business was to see that the work was done to his mind, and he makes every one do as he thinks proper; George Campbell; Thomas Reid; Jamieson Bennett; James Reid; George Pride; and Betsy Campbell, George's wife. And of Millerhill there were myself; John Reid; Ellen Reid, his daughter, aged 15; Janet Shaw, 30; James Reid, of the old engine at Hungrymouth; and Margaret Adam, his daughter, aged about 12." 
               It may not be inappropriate here so far to interrupt the narrative as to say, that had the accident happened the preceding day, there would have been twenty-three sufferers instead of thirteen. Two, also, it may be mentioned of the thirteen (Bennett and James Reid), had been sent down out of their regular course to perform a particular work that night, and so seemed specially appointed to what ensued. But it was well they were there; for they both, Bennett in particular, materially helped in the rescue. 
               "The four women," Peter went on to say, "were carrying the rubbish. I was taking it from them, and putting it in the waste; that is, filling up the vacancies where coals have been taken away before. The men were building biggings for holding back the road, saving two, who were cutting down stone to make the road higher. George Pride was filling water, of which there were about two feet at the foot of the pit. Now, while we were all thus engaged in our lawful employment, as I said, between nine and ten at night, George Pride arrived among us from the pit bottom in great agony, with the fearful tidings that our pit was giving way!" 
                
               A slight dropping, it may be mentioned, of loose earth and stones, had taken place, which was repeated increasingly at intervals, and caused the alarm. 
               "John Nicolson would not at first believe that the thing was so disastrous, and continued at his work for a little; but at length he went to see, and took with him George Pride, Jamieson Bennett, and James Reid. To our awful dismay, the pit at that time gave way with three fearful claps, which exactly closed up every avenue whatever at the pit bottom; threw John Reid against the wall, cutting his face much, and knocked down one or two more against the wall and into the water. I ran to them, and keppit John [caught him in my arms], his face streaming with blood. Says he, 'Peter, Peter, what is to become of us now! We'll never see our wives and bairns mair!' Says I, 'John, there is no fear, I hope we shall see them yet.' But truly, I must say, we all felt consternation on coming to think that we were just buried three hundred and sixty feet down in the earth, and seemed as if shut up to a certain death. 
               "We resolved, however, to go away to the Back Dean Air-gate, thinking to ourselves that if we could not make our escape there, we were indeed completely gone!" 
               This Air-gate was a long crooked drain-like passage, about three quarters of a mile in length, cut through the rock and coal from the High Pressure pit to the Back Dean. It was in most places only two or three feet high, though in some as high as five or six; and it was generally between two and four feet wide. It was merely for the passage of air, and was closed in by a strong door near the place where the colliers were sitting at the bottom of the High Pressure pit. The Back Dean pit had, for a considerable time, been abandoned, and at the period in question, it was in contemplation to abandon also the High Pressure pit workings, the coal being very much exhausted; a circumstance that explains the state of disrepair in which the Air-gate was found to be. 
               "The door of the Air-gate," said Peter, "was soon broken open, and we travelled into that old Air-gate. But we had not advanced far, when a mass of rubbish stopped our progress. We commenced to get it cleared; and this occupied may-be four or five of our men for three or four hours. Some of us got wedges, and a punch and mell; but we had to cut a foot off the mell shaft, the working place was so small. 
               "I had remained behind; but after a time going to see how they were getting on, John Nicolson said to me, 'Go away and tell the men to yoke to the pit bottom, and see and get it cleared, for this place is completely choked up. It will never do. There's no air here.' 'Oh!' said I, 'is there no appearance of any opening?' 'No, Peter,' said he, 'it is as close as the wall face!' We therefore commenced on the pit bottom, and continued till word was brought that they had got an opening in the Air-gate. 
               "This was glad news, and by this opening (a little one it was), we proceeded, creeping and groping our way, till we came to water. John Reid went in, but soon went to the chin in it; and the air became exceeding bad. It put out four or five of our lamps; and we could scarcely breathe in it. It was necessary, therefore, to leave it. Those behind were told to move back, taking good care of their lights. So we all returned to the High Pressure pit bottom, and began again to work at the stuff there; and here we continued till the bad air extinguished every light we had at the pit bottom. Still, however, we had light out o'er at the place we originally were working at, and that was some comfort to us. We called this our head-quarters, for we always returned to it." 
               And here let the reader pause and reflect for a moment on the situation of these thirteen persons buried alive. The world, in thinking of a coal-pit, is apt to liken it in imagination to the great mines of story, deep down in the earth it may be, but roomy, and with their vaulted roofs rising high over head. But different is the coal-pit of the period now in question. Imagine yourself four hundred feet down in the depths of the earth, in a low, close, irregular driftway, the roof supported by fir staves, called pit stobs, which alone seem to prevent the impending mass from precipitating itself on you. Imagine a set of men, and poor unhappy women, dirtily clad, if clad they can be called, their little oil lamps fixed on their foreheads, yielding the only light which the place affords; all generally in a stooping posture, because rarely overhead is there space to stand upright; some laid at full length on their sides, wielding the pickaxe against the coal, is the only attitude practicable; and others, the women not excepted, chained with harness to their wagons, dragging these on all-fours; while here and there is a man cutting a passage for the trickling water that bedews them on every side; all oppressed with the close heat of the place, which is perpetual, and pursuing their daily and nightly task in a dull silence congenial to the scene. Here is matter enough for anxious feeling to any inhabitant of the upper world, whom business or curiosity may have brought down to this lower region. But let any such person figure to himself his own state, if, while there, he should hear a roar like thunder, and a mighty rush of mixed stones, rubbish, and coal pouring down like a cataract, and blocking up his only way of escape! Such was the state of these poor colliers on the night of the accident; differing, to be sure, in so far, from that of the stranger, that they were inured from infancy to hardship and danger, but similar to his, inasmuch as they were, like him, accessible to fear for themselves, and to sorrow for dear relatives whom a few hours before they had left in health and prosperity, in their cottages at home. 
               Let us follow them, then, throughout the varying circumstances of the night, and resume our fellowship with them seated in silence in their dismal "head-quarters." 
               "Well," said Peter, "the women were sitting here, for they did not engage in the clearing of the rubbish; the men only did that. Here we all gathered together, and this place became a kind of Bethel 
                     This Bethel was about eight feet by fourteen in size, and only three feet and a half high; so that standing erect was out of the question in it.
                   to us; for after we had sat down and become composed, John Nicolson proposed that prayer should be offered up, for they saw nothing but evidently death before them; and he fixed on me to pray. We placed ourselves all down in a composed manner, for I asked them all to be sedate; and so they were, you may believe. There were some among them, indeed, who knew the Scriptures. Jamieson Bennett, in particular, showed great faith, and was full of the promises. Poor Betsy Campbell was very composed too, but whiles broke out into raptures, saying, 'she would never see her twa bairns mair.' 
               "All then being quiet and composed, we sung the first four verses of the 20th Psalm, and I prayed: 
                      
                        'Jehovah hear thee in the day 
                        When trouble he doth send. 
                        And let the name of Jacob's God 
                        Thee from all ill defend. 
                     
                     
                      
                        O let him help send from above, 
                        Out of his sanctuary; 
                        From Sion, his own holy hill, 
                        Let him give help to thee. 
                     
                      
                        Let him remember all thy gifts, 
                        Accept thy sacrifice: 
                        Grant thee thy heart's wish, and fulfil 
                        Thy thoughts and counsel wise. 
                     
                      
                        In thy salvation we will joy; 
                        In our God's name we will 
                        Display our banners: and the Lord 
                        Thy prayers all fulfil.' 
                     
                  
                
               "We then sat and crackit [conversed freely together] awhile, and afterwards sent a deputation to the Back Dean pit, to see if there was any relief coming from that quarter, for we thought they might get down from above there and work their way towards us by the auld Air-gate. But they returned and said they had gone as far as they could for the air, and hallooed and shouted to see if there was anybody coming, but they heard no sound; and it was concluded that we certainly must die, for we thought the High Pressure pit was filled to the daylight, and the Air-gate close, and hence that there was no hope for us. 
                
               "A great deal of us were in highly low spirits at this time, because we saw nothing but death evidently before us. We fell a-cracking, however; and it was observed, 'That while there was life there was hope. Let us rejoice that we have a God that can hear and answer prayer wherever his people are; for though we are shut up in the bowels of the earth, yet he is able to hear us, and he can both hear us and deliver us. He is the same God yesterday, to-day, and forever, without variableness or shadow of turning. Let us remember the wonderful deliverance he wrought for the Israelites, when, for their escape from the land of Egypt to Canaan, he opened a way for them in the Red Sea; and when there was nothing but insurmountable mountains on both hands, the roaring ocean before, and the enemy pursuing behind-when all refuge seemed to have failed, and they thought, many of them, that nothing could deliver them, then it was that the very next thing they heard was the Lord speaking to Moses, and saying "Speak unto the people that they go forward." Man's extremity is God's opportunity. Let us not despair. Let us resign ourselves entirely to his will and pleasure. Let us be putting ourselves in a posture fit for death, and, with the highest resignation, submit ourselves to whatever seems to him best for us.' 
               "Now, you must know, that by this time our lights were altogether gone out. The air was too bad to support them. So we were left quite in the dark; and I must tell you that this turned out, as you will see, a happy thing for us, though we liked it not at the time. 
               "It was then observed, and it is interesting to mark how the observation flows out of the loss of their lights, evidently leading to the thought, 'That though we should never behold each other in the face on this side of time, we hoped the next time we met would be in the light of the New Jerusalem, where the sun should never go down, nor the moon withdraw her shining.' It was observed of this glorious place, 
                  
                      
                        'No darkness now, no dismal night, 
                        No vapor intercepts the light; 
                        We see forever face to face 
                        The highest Prince in highest place. 
                     
                      
                        This, this does heaven enough afford, 
                        We are forever with the Lord; 
                        We want no more, for all is given- 
                        His presence is the heart of  heaven.'
                              Erskine's Gospel Sonnets.
                           
                         
                     
                  
                
               "We then crackit in respect of our families. It was observed, 'That desperate as our case was, though they were above, they were much to be pitied; for no doubt they were bewailing us, and thinking of the loss of friends
                     In Scotland, "friends" includes, if it do not specially mean, "relations;" a curious enough philological indication, by-the-bye, of the national clanish characteristic.
                   they were about to suffer. And this made us think that there should be more prayer and praise. So the 121st Psalm was sung, because that was good for all, whether on the earth or under the earth. 
                      
                        'I to the hills will lift mine eyes, 
                        From whence doth come mine aid; 
                        My safety cometh from the Lord 
                        Who heaven and earth hath made. 
                     
                     
                      
                        Thy foot he'll not let slide, nor will 
                        He slumber that thee keeps, 
                        Behold he that keeps Israel 
                        He slumbers not, nor sleeps. 
                     
                      
                        The Lord thee keeps, the Lord thy shade 
                        On thy right hand doth stay; 
                        The moon by night thee shall not smite, 
                        Nor yet the sun by day. 
                     
                      
                        The Lord shall keep thy soul, he shall 
                        Preserve thee from all ill; 
                        Henceforth thy going out and in 
                        God keep for ever will.' 
                     
                  
                
               "Prayer was then offered a second time; after which the next topic conversed on was the three Children in the fiery furnace. The might of that God was observed upon, who changed the element of fire, that it had no power on these three children when they believed and called on his name; and it was concluded, that if he was able to qualify the element of fire, so that the smell of fire did not pass on them, and not so much as an hair of their heads was singed, he was surely able to make a way of escape for us, dark as our case was. 
               "Let me here tell you that the girls at first cried for hunger; but the hunger wore off. Hunger never touched any of the older ones. We had plenty of water; and it was observed, 'That the Lord had once made water into wine, and if it was so ordered, he could make that water support us, the same as if it was flesh.'" 
               Before proceeding with the narrative, it may be useful to call attention to one circumstance, that whereas hitherto, and in the earlier stages, while hope may have been more buoyant, 
                     the the
                     the
                   addresses refer leadingly to the miraculous agency of God in the deliverances of his people; now when death came into more close contact with them, there is more of Christ by degrees, and of his saving grace-an unintentional evidence of the power and value of the Cross whensoever death, judgment, and eternity become, not vague generalities, but practical realities in the mind. 
               "Some of the company then," said Peter, "began to think, indeed all of us did, that we had not lived lives corresponding to the light that we had enjoyed, the light of the precious Gospel shining in its brightness amongst us. One of them, James Reid of the Old Engine, said, 'Surely if I escape, it will become me to turn over a new leaf!' and every one seemed to feel his own deficiency, and his need of a Saviour." 
               Such were the feelings and resolutions of these people while under the pressure of distress; and it will be seen in the sequel that, as they were incited to serious thoughts by impending danger, so they were afterwards called on, by gratitude for a very marvellous deliverance, to fulfil every vow they had made; for not one of them suffered any hurt, but all were restored to their friends in health, and they are all yet alive. The whole thirteen lately paid a visit to the present recorder of their adventure, at his house at Belfield; the older parties bent down with advancing years, and the younger risen into manhood and womanhood, but all in good health and spirits. Have their vows then been remembered? Have the serious impressions and the deep convictions of the hour of trouble retained their power? Let them, and let all who have experienced the softening power of affliction while it lasts, put these questions to their hearts and consciences with earnestness and with anxiety; for nothing is more certain than that mere external influences, however fearful, or at the moment influential, will never of themselves produce a saving change on any man: though when real at the time, and cherished afterwards, they may be the means employed by the Spirit for effecting that saving change. 
               "During the night, when we were getting low, 'My friends,' said I, 'to divert you and strengthen you as much as possible, I will repeat a hymn to you: 
                      
                        'Happy the company that's gone 
                        From cross to crown, from thrall to throne. 
                        How loud they sing upon the shore 
                        To which they sailed in heart before! 
                     
                      
                        "Bless'd are the dead," yea, saith the Word, 
                        "That die in Christ," the living God, 
                        And on the other side of death 
                        Thus joyful spend their parting breath: 
                     
                      
                        "Death from all death hath set us free, 
                        And will our gain forever be; 
                         
                        Death loosed the massy chains of woe, 
                        To let the mournful captives go. 
                     
                      
                        Death is to us a sweet repose; 
                        The bud was ope'd to show the rose, 
                        The cage was broke to let us fly, 
                        And build our happy nest on high. 
                     
                      
                        Faith once stole down a distant kiss, 
                        Now Love cleaves to the cheek of Bliss; 
                        Beyond the fear of more mishap, 
                        We gladly rest in Glory's lap. 
                     
                      
                        Earth was to us a seat of war- 
                        On thrones of triumph now we are; 
                        We longed to see our Jesus dear, 
                        And sought him there, but find him here. 
                     
                      
                        We see him at the table head 
                        With living water, living bread, 
                        His cheerful guests incessant load, 
                        With all the plenitude of God. 
                     
                      
                        We see the holy flaming fires, 
                        Cherubic and seraphic choirs, 
                        And gladly join with those on high 
                        To warble praise eternally. 
                     
                      
                        Glory to God that here we came, 
                        And glory to the glorious Lamb; 
                        Our light, our life, our joy, our all 
                        Is in our arms, and ever shall. 
                     
                      
                        Our Lord is ours, and we are his, 
                        Yea, now we see him as he is; 
                        And hence we like unto him are, 
                        And full his glorious image share." 
                     
                     
                      
                        While thus I laid my listening ear 
                        Close to the door of heaven to hear, 
                        And then the sacred page did view 
                        Which told me all I heard was true; 
                     
                      
                        Yet show'd me that the heavenly song 
                        Surpasses every mortal tongue, 
                        With such unutterable strains 
                        As none in fett'ring flesh attains; 
                     
                      
                        Then said I, "O to mount away, 
                        And leave this log of heavy clay; 
                        Let wings of time more hasty fly, 
                        That I may join the songs on high!"'
                              Erskine's Gospel Sonnets, part v., sect. 6, p. 191.
                           
                         
                     
                  
                
               "This hymn was a great consolation, both to myself, and to them who heard it. Indeed, I must just say to you at once, that this, after all, was one of the sweetest and shortest Saturday nights I ever passed, and I daresay there never was a more solemn church on the earth, than was that night at the pit-bottom in the heart of the earth. 
               "After the hymn, the wives and families were the next subject resumed, every one lamenting and mourning for his own. I repeated several times, that it seemed to be a dear High Pressure pit to me, for only nine months before, I had lost a beautiful daughter there,
                     This young girl was working at the foot of the pit, when a lump of coal fell from the ascending bucket, then at a great height, on her head, and felled her to the ground. Thanks to Lord Ashley, no collier's daughter can now so die!
                   and now to all appearance, I was to fall a sacrifice in the same place myself! 
               "About this time, another detachment was sent to see if there was any relief coming from the Back Dean pit. But they returned with the former sad tidings, that they heard nobody coming, and that the air was closer than ever. 
               "It was then agreed that prayer and praise should be offered once more, and we sung the 130th Psalm, and I prayed: 
                      
                        'Lord, from the depths to thee I cried, 
                        My voice, Lord, do thou hear; 
                        Unto my supplication's voice 
                        Give an attentive ear. 
                     
                      
                        Lord, who shall stand, if thou, O Lord, 
                        Shouldst mark iniquity? 
                        But yet with thee forgiveness is, 
                        That feared thou mayest be. 
                     
                      
                        I wait for God, my soul doth wait, 
                        My hope is in his word; 
                         
                        More than they that for morning watch 
                        My soul waits for the Lord. 
                     
                      
                        I say more than they that do watch 
                        The morning light to see; 
                        Let Israel hope in the Lord, 
                        For with him mercies be: 
                     
                      
                        And plenteous redemption 
                        Is ever found with him, 
                        And from all his iniquities 
                        He Israel shall redeem.' 
                     
                  
                
               "The subject of Jonah in the whale's belly came then under our view. It was observed, 'That Jonah from the bottom of the mountains had prayed and cried to God, and that, awful as his case was, this God, who filled the immensity of space with his presence, heard that prayer and spoke to that fish, so that it threw him out on the dry ground;' and from this it was observed that we should encourage ourselves, because that same God, who is wonderful in counsel and excellent in working, could open up a way of recovery for us, desperate as our case seemed to be. We remembered Daniel also in the lions' den. For all the enemies he had, none could find any fault 
                   
                      
                  
                  
                   in Daniel, except his worshipping his God. Yet, like God's people in all ages, he was persecuted. But he placed his confidence in God. As Joshua had done before him, he determined, whatsoever others did, to serve the Lord; and so in his extremity the Lord heard his cry and answered his prayer, and sent his angel and delivered him from all his powerful enemies. And why not us also? said we. While there was life there was hope; and we ought to evince energy in such a case, and console and strengthen each other." 
               This effort of faith with the hope springing out of it may, not unnaturally, have led the mind of Peter, by contrast, back to the subject of death; and then of course came the Gospel, the one resource in real extremities. For, said he, 
               "It was then observed, 'That it was a grand thing to be preparing for death, whatever might be the event of the providence that had befallen us; for that we never could be losers by preparing to appear before the judgment-seat of Christ. And with respect to the efficacy cacy and sufficiency of Christ's atonement for sinners, it was certain that "He was able to save unto the very uttermost all that come unto God by him; for he is exalted at the right hand of the Majesty on high, a Prince and a Saviour for to give repentance unto Israel and the remission of sins." And it was observed, 'That with respect to prayer, none need to be at a loss; for do you not remember the Pharisee and the Publican? The one had a long prayer; the other a short one. The Publican smote on his breast, and just said, "God be merciful to me a sinner;" and that prayer, which was heard and answered, any one can use.' 
               "Much was also spoken out of the 1st chapter of Isaiah, and chiefly from this passage, 'Come, now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.' This they are to be through the blood and the righteousness of Christ, freely offered to the worst of sinners. 
                
               "About this time a part of the 51st Psalm was sung. 
                      
                        'Of gladness and of joyfulness, 
                        Make me to hear the voice, 
                        That so these very bones which thou 
                        Hast broken may rejoice. 
                     
                      
                        All mine iniquities blot out, 
                        Thy face hide from my sin; 
                        Create a clean heart, Lord, renew 
                        A right sp'rit me within. 
                     
                      
                        Cast me not from thy sight, nor take 
                        Thy Holy Sp'rit away. 
                        Restore me thy salvation's joy; 
                        With thy free Sp'rit me stay.'" 
                     
                  
                
               It is singular to observe the care about the disposal of the body, which will creep in even where that might seem the least part of a present and deep suffering. These men were not unawake to this point, and they began to think of the sort of burial that awaited their bodies. "Prayer," said Peter, "was now offered again; and it was observed, 'That if we died there, it would be long before they came to our bodies, if ever they did. But with respect to our bodies, we need not be careful; for if we were mindful of our precious souls, and were putting them into the hands of our merciful Creator, he was able to save both soul and body, no matter where the bodies were mouldering, or whether they had burial or not.' 
               "I should have mentioned, that about six o'clock at night, as we thought, it was resolved to write our names on a stone, and say on it that we were alive at that hour, so that friends might know something about us when they come to find our bodies, if ever they found them. And I began to write accordingly; but just at this time, after I had written one or two names, the lights went out, we were left in utter darkness, and I could write no more! Our comfort on this head was that God would know where our bodies were. 
               "After this, the passage from 1st Thessalonians, iv. 14, was observed on, 'For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.' Verses 17 and 18 of Revelation chapter i., were also repeated, 'And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead, and he laid his hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not, I am the first and the last; I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold I am alive for evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death.' Revelation, xiv. 13, was likewise very precious to us, 'And I heard a voice from heaven, saying, Write, Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord; yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them.' 
               "Various hymns were repeated, as also the 58th Paraphrase, beginning, 
                      
                        'Where high the heav'nly temple stands, 
                        The house of God not made with hands, 
                        A great High Priest our nature wears, 
                        The guardian of mankind appears. 
                     
                      
                        He who for men their Surety stood, 
                        And pour'd on earth his precious blood, 
                        Pursues in heav'n his mighty plan, 
                        The Saviour and the Friend of man. 
                     
                      
                        Though now ascended up on high, 
                        He bends on earth a Brother's eye; 
                        Partaker of the human name, 
                        He knows the frailty of our frame. 
                     
                      
                        Our fellow-suff'rer yet retains 
                        A fellow-feeling of our pains; 
                         
                        And still remembers in the skies 
                        His tears, his agonies, and cries. 
                     
                      
                        In ev'ry pang that rends the heart, 
                        The Man of Sorrows had a part; 
                        He sympathizes with our grief, 
                        And to the suff'rer sends relief. 
                     
                      
                        With boldness, therefore, at the throne, 
                        Let us make all our sorrows known; 
                        And ask the aids of heav'nly pow'r 
                        To help us in the evil hour.' 
                     
                  
                
               "We also sung a part of the 30th Paraphrase. 
                      
                        'Come let us to the Lord our God 
                        With contrite hearts return; 
                        Our God is gracious, nor will leave 
                        The desolate to mourn. 
                     
                      
                        Long hath the night of sorrow reign'd, 
                        The dawn shall bring us light; 
                        God shall appear, and we shall rise 
                        With gladness in his sight. 
                     
                      
                        Our hearts, if God we seek to know, 
                        Shall know him and rejoice; 
                        His coming like the morn shall be, 
                        Like morning songs his voice.' 
                     
                  
                
               "A conversation then ensued, and Thomas Reid requested me if I would pray the Lord's Prayer. His request was granted. Then the first four verses of the 103d Psalm were repeated, and likewise Psalm 137th: on which it was observed, that the Jew's captivity might be spoken of as resembling our own. Surely we all at this time preferred Jerusalem above our chiefest joy! 
               "At one time when we were sitting close together-it was a long time to converse, and we were all in the dark-our company became very melancholy. Some thought that every avenue for our escape was shut up; others thought something might yet be done. At length it was agreed that another deputation should be sent to see if any relief was coming from the Back Dean pit. They returned with the same melancholy news that none appeared, and the place was as close as before. This no doubt increased the alarm among us; on which it was observed: 'Let us not fear, but put our implicit confidence in that God who rides on the whirlwind and directs the storm, whose way is in the sea and his path in the mighty waters, and whose footsteps are not known. Trust in the all-powerful Jehovah, who weighs the mountains in scales, and taketh up the isles as a very little thing, who measureth the waters in the hollow of his hand, who is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in working. His ways are not as our ways, for he could even yet make a way of escape for us, dark, dreary, and dismal as our case seemed to be.' 
               "With respect to death, our words turned on the topic of our families, and we thought that we should never more see our dwellings. But we then remembered the sufficiency of the Redeemer to answer every one of our cases, how diversified soever they might; and it was nothing beyond his power to make us meet our families again, if not in the present world, certainly in another world, by making us all meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. But nothing could redeem a soul but Christ; and it was evidently pointed out to the company, that they must put their whole dependence on Him, for there was 'none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. For no sinner could find acceptance with God, saving in and through the Lord Jesus Christ; for out of Christ he is a consuming fire, but in and through Jesus Christ, a reconciled Father. No other sacrifice could satisfy the Divine law, no, not even the cattle on a thousand hills; nor could the brightest intelligence that circles the throne above, pay a ransom for man's transgressions: but Christ has done this. Let us then, as it is said in the Epistle to the Hebrews, 'draw near with a true heart, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help us in the time of need.' 
               "And truly this was a time of need with us! 
               "This made them think of hearing another hymn; and this was repeated:
                     Erskine's Gospel Sonnets, chap. v., sect. 1, p. 251.
                   
                  
                      
                        'In heavenly choirs a question rose 
                        That stirred up strife will never close- 
                        What rank of all the ransomed race 
                        Owes highest praise to sov'reign Grace? 
                     
                      
                        Babes thither caught from womb and breast 
                        Claim'd right to sing above the rest, 
                        Because they found the happy shore 
                        They never saw nor sought before. 
                     
                     
                      
                        Those that arrived at riper age 
                        Before they left the dusky stage 
                        Thought Grace deserved yet higher praise 
                        That wash'd the blood of num'rous days. 
                     
                      
                        Anon the war more close began 
                        What praising harp should lead the van? 
                        And which of Grace's heavenly peers 
                        Was deepest run in her arrears? 
                     
                      
                        "'Tis I," (said one) "'bove all my race 
                        Am debtor chief to glorious Grace;" 
                        "Nay," (said another) "hark, I trow 
                        I'm more obliged to Grace than you." 
                     
                      
                        "Stay," (said a third) "I deepest share 
                        In owing praise beyond compare; 
                        The chief of sinners, you'll allow, 
                        Must be the chief of singers now." 
                     
                      
                        "Hold," (said a fourth) "I here protest 
                        My praises must outvie the best, 
                        For I'm, of all the human race, 
                        The highest miracle of Grace." 
                     
                      
                        "Stop," (said a fifth) "these notes forbear, 
                        Lo! I 'm the greatest wonder here, 
                        For I of all the race that fell 
                        Deserved the lowest place in hell." 
                     
                      
                        A soul that higher yet aspired, 
                        With equal love to Jesus fired, 
                        "'Tis mine to sing the highest notes 
                        To love that washed the foulest blots." 
                     
                      
                        "Ho," (cried a mate) "'tis mine, I'll prove, 
                        Who sinned in spite of light and love. 
                         
                        To sound his praise with loudest bell 
                        That saved me from the lowest hell." 
                     
                      
                        "Come, come," (said one) "I'll hold the plea, 
                        That highest praise is due by me, 
                        For mine, of all the saved by Grace, 
                        Was the most dreadful, desperate case." 
                     
                      
                        Another, rising at his side, 
                        As fond to praise and free of pride, 
                        Cried, "Pray give place, for I defy 
                        That you should owe more praise than I. 
                     
                      
                        I'll yield to none in this debate 
                        I'm run so deep in Grace's debt, 
                        That sure I am, I boldly can 
                        Compare with all the heavenly clan." 
                     
                      
                        Thus in sweet, holy, humble strife, 
                        Along their endless, joyful life, 
                        Of Jesus all the harpers rove, 
                        And sing the wonders of his love.' 
                     
                  
                
               "From the view of these different characters it was observed, 'That none need despair, since Christ had made atonement for the vilest of the vile. Accordingly, that in the regions of glory there would be found divers characters, from all nations, people, kindreds, and tongues upon earth; and it was good for us to put ourselves under his care and protection, and to resign all to his holy will and pleasure, dreadful as it was to dwell on a certain death and day of judgment.' For, no doubt, thought we, we must all appear shortly before the God that made us, to answer for the deeds done in the body, whether they were good or evil." 
               Let it be observed here how these people mixed the use of means with their prayers. There was equally the life and the sobriety of faith among men. Said Peter, "By this time we were beginning again to consider about making another trial, and seeing whether any relief was coming to us from above by the Back Dean pit. Three, accordingly, were sent out, myself, Jamieson Bennett, and James Reid. I went first, till we came to the water's edge, and there we sat down and consulted; when it was agreed among us all that we thought the air was better, and indeed that it was tolerably good. We had no lights to prove it, but judged only from our breathing, and we were all of this opinion." 
               This is an interesting circumstance. These men were habituated to nice observation, particularly in regard to air, in their subterraneous neous occupations: and on the present occasion, their perception was as correct as it was nice. Previously they had found the air very bad, and judged it insupportable. They were right. On these occasions, the water rose nearly to the rubbish overhead, very much excluding all communication of air from without. But in the interval, a change, though unknown to them, had taken place. The Back Dean Air-gate had, in fact, during their confinement, become more freely ventilated than at first. This was effected through the prompt and considerate measures taken in the course of the day by Messrs. Stenhouse and Sir John Hope of Pinkie, who had set on their engines at the different water-pits in the neighborhood with redoubled power, and by the general draught thereby caused, had lowered the water in the Air-gate the necessary number of inches to admit of a flux of air, and of the narrow and precarious passage through it, to be now described. 
               "Feeling the improvement," says Peter, "we all agreed to return with the tidings, that there was no relief appearing from the Back Dean pit; but that the air was better in the Air-gate, and that we proposed to make a trial of it, if they all were agreeable. 
               "So we returned and told them. But they were refractory and unbelieving. One indeed said, he had made up his mind to die where he was, and if any of us escaped with life, we might give intimation to his friends where they would find his body. It was replied, 'That, to be sure, if we sat there, it was inevitable death; but here the story of the four lepers occurred to be spoken to. If they stood where they were, it was death; if they entered into the city, it was still death; if they entered into the camp of the Assyrians, it was but death. Therefore they entered. We were bound to use every energy while we had breath, for rescuing our lives from destruction, and then to leave the event with God. To sit still there, was little else than suicide. If we wished to die, it was our part to buy death at the dearest rate; and we had some prospect of life at the end of the proposed trial.' 
                
               "It was no wonder, after all, that there was some difficulty about trying; for since then I have seen the place again, and I can truly say, that if we had had light at the time, to see the holes into which we had to creep, I scarcely think we would have ventured to go. But see how good God was! We grieved when our lights went out; but God put them out in mercy, that we might not fear to enter into the narrow places for our life. The loss of our light was just the means of our life. 
               "So it was agreed that three should make a trial, and the rest follow half an hour afterwards. The three appointed to go were, Jamieson Bennett, John Reid, and George Pride. But they would not go without me; so of course four were sent away. Half an hour was allowed for removing the obstacles in the way, and making a clear passage. So we four went on till we came to the water's edge. Then we sat down, and prayer was offered to the prayer-hearing God. 
               "After this, we went into the water. At our very first entrance, we crept on our bellies for perhaps four or five yards; so low was the roof, and all in the dark. The roof had sitten down where we crept, and the water was floating round our mouths; so that we had to turn the backs of our heads round, to keep our mouths out of the water. We pressed on and on, however, and with a little more comfort, occasionally being able, with tolerable ease, to keep our feet. But soon we came to a broad flag-stone. On this, Bennett and Reid called back, that if they did not get picks, they could proceed no farther, for they had got a stone here which lay across the whole way." 
               And now, let the reader pause an instant for reflection. Here were thirteen human beings buried deep down in the earth, preparing to work their way in the dark, burrowing, like moles, through nearly a mile of a close, narrow, winding, and old deserted passage, known to be in disrepair throughout, who were met on their very entrance, and by way of earnest of what might be to follow, by a fallen rock blocking up their way in front. What ground for apprehension and fear was there not here! How many similar obstructions, might they not think, lay before them, after it should be removed! What falls of rubbish were not to take place by the way, caused by the very rustling of their onward advance! How might not the roof have somewhere or other so sitten down as to meet with the water, instead of being near it, and so effectually stop their progress! Or, might not the air become so vitiated by their own breathing, as to fail for the support of life! How many other undefinable alarms might not the closeness and darkness of the place, and their six-and-thirty hours' exhaustion have conjured up, to make them despond or despair, and, with their reckless comrade, abandon effort and lie down and die! But, in the season of their extremity, they were sustained by an Invisible Power. Their prayers were heard. As their day, so their strength was. Let others, then, taking example from them, and seeking refuge in the midst of difficulties, where succor is alone and is ever to be found, wait on the Lord; be of good courage, and he will strengthen their heart. The journey of life, in many respects, bears resemblance to the Colliers' Air-gate. There are dark passages before, and obstructing rocks around: there are impending cliffs above, and swelling waters beneath. Life, as well as collieries, has its tortuous and torturing ways; and none of us knows, at any time, what crosses lie in his path, what breakers are ahead, and shoals below. But there is a good Guide ever at hand-a Leader and Commander of his people-who will neither suffer us irrecoverably to stray, nor permit to be laid upon us more than we are able to bear, but will, with the temptation, also make a way to escape, that we may be able to bear it. There is, then, in all situations of life, and in all its varying circumstances, that prudent preparation for coming troubles, which strengthens for the trial and qualifies for successful conflict with it. There is also that nervous apprehension of the evil, which only weakens and unfits for the struggle. Let every one dismiss the nervous fear; and nerved by faith, let him send back, like our colliers, for his pick-axe, or grasp in his hand his staff, when met by his obstructing rock or his swelling stream, and, vigorously assaulting the one, or firmly stemming the other, press on towards the mark, assured of final victory, whether it be in life, or whether it be in death. Through Christ which strengtheneth him, the Christian can do all things. 
               But to return to our Collier:-"Well," said he, "we had the good presence of mind the day before to leave two picks on the dry ground, a little distant from the water. So George Pride and I returned and found them, and carried them to Bennett and Reid, and they were enabled to remove the flag in a very short time. Just as they got the flag removed, the back parties were making an advance; but they had to stop a little 'till we were ready. So, all things being clear for the march, we proceeded onward, every one following the other, and aye [always] naming each other aloud as we marched on in our journey, to see if all were on the move. We continued thus on our march, till we met with another disagreeable bit; but it was soon overcome. The rubbish had fallen down, and was raised above the level of the water; and the passage was very laigh. We soon surmounted it, however, creeping on our hands and feet. There was no water here, and we got through the rubbish, and marched on. After this we came to a place where we walked on our feet; but the water was very high-in some places higher, in some lower. It was sometimes up to our waists, at other times to our shoulders, touching even our chins; and the women had to hing to [hang by] our necks, and just float and swim as they best might, for it would have drowned them, the young ones at least, to walk. We carried on, however, the best way we could, getting through the water: 'till we observed that we had left some of the party behind, and I waited till the last came forward. 
               "By this time I thought that George Pride had found the dry ground, and had escaped away with great joy to the pit mouth; for I cried several times to him, but received no answer swer. So when the rest came up, and were following me, as I thought, I moved up a road or avenue. But I soon found, to my dismay, that I was alone, and that I had gone wrong! I went over a mass of rubbish just twofold; the road became impassible with rubbish, and the air so extremely bad, that one of my ears gave a loud crack and a ring, and the streamers flew from my eyes, and there was excessive heat. Then, thought I, I am certainly wrong here! However, I must be as cool as possible, for I know there are two ways back-a right and a wrong; and I have heard of people's brains turning in such situations! So if my brain were to turn, and I took the one road instead of the other, I might just go back the way I had come, and be lost! With as much coolness of mind, then, as possible, I returned backward, and, turning to the right hand, I again went to the shoulder in water; but at last I reached the dry ground. Then I began to feel the smell of sulphur and reek [smoke]; and as I knew that a lamp hung constantly burning in the Back Dean pit to help the purity of the air, I thought it must be this that was causing the reek and smell, and that I now was indeed in the right way. This was the case: and so I immediately found myself just where we had so long desired to be-hard by the bottom of the Back Dean pit! And that you may believe, was no small comfort unto me! 
               "To my great joy, the rest were all safe arrived before myself, nor had they missed me at the time; every one was so excited with his own case. For my own part, before I went up the Air-gate, I was like a lion for strength; but after I came out, I was weak enough. We found the air extremely bad; our sides blew the same as if we had been running a race, for want of breath; and that made us weak. 
               "However, we shouted up from the bottom of the pit, and to our great joy we were quickly heard and answered. A bucket was sent down; but, as we were so weakly, a man was sent down with it to help us. So the man descended about half way down the pit. To use his own words, however, he soon did not know whether he was coming down or going up, and he called on them to take him up, for he was not able to live in the air of the place. We who had come from the pit were able to stand it; but the man that had come from the fresh air was not able. So the bucket was again let down, and we were drawn up in the following order: Ellen Reid, James Reid, Janet Shaw, first; then, Jamieson Bennett, John Reid, and Margaret Adam; then, George Campbell, James Reid, and John Nicolson; and Thomas Reid, George Pride, and Betsy Campbell, and myself. 
               "So we reached the Back Dean pit head, and again saw the pleasant light of day, about eight o'clock on the Sabbath morning, and my first words were, 'Glory to God in the highest, that I am once more on the earth safe alive.' And glory be to his name I now say, and shall say to the end of my life!" 
               Such was the simple narrative of Peter Hay, and such the issue of the fearful adventure which befell him. When it is borne in mind that he was a common working collier at the time, this history will be felt as a new proof of the truth of the Scripture declaration regarding spiritual things, that "A good understanding have all they that observe these things." The man who has received the truth in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, has indeed a fund of judgment and firmness of purpose, which philosophy strives in vain to impart. This was shown in the case of the colliers, by the wise and vigorous measures which, under circumstances of extraordinary difficulty, and with exemplary patience and a courageous dependence on the God of grace and of providence, they took for effecting their passage through the Back Dean Air-gate. 
               The whole case ought to be peculiarly gratifying to Lord Ashley, as showing what actually exists already among the unprotected class for whose relief he has so successfully contended, and what will still more largely prevail when the change now happily begun shall have taken full effect on its objects. Let Lord Ashley be assured that even now, among all the better classes of our colliers, the sentiment expressed to the Editor, by the humble individual who is the hero of this tract, is a very general one: "He must be a good man, that Lord Ashley, who delivered the women from going down to the pits."
                     Such as wish to realize Peter's living talk, must pronounce these words, "maun" and "Aushley."
                  
                
               A hundred years ago the colliers of Scotland were by law serfs, adstricti gleb, attached to the soil and transferred with the property; and though then emancipated, they have not even yet recovered fully the spring and bearing of free men. But their progress will doubtless be accelerated, when the females, instead of being basely harnessed to carts under ground, and habituated to the brutalities of the rudest of their comrades, shall be sent out to service in families, and there learning housewifery, will gradually become "keepers at home," devoting themselves to the proper object of their being, in the care and upbringing of their families. "In another generation," as Peter lately said, "the morals of the colliers will be much refined by the services of the women among the children." But, indeed, it is not necessary in this district to wait the lapse of a generation. Already, through the blessing of God upon the labors of the Rev. Mr. Glass, of Musselburgh, a reformation, if not a revival, has taken place among the collier population of these quarters: where, to a large extent, the Sabbath is sanctified by prayer and church-going, instead of being profaned, as before, by sloth and drunkenness; where the working days see many busily providing for their families by industry, who formerly ruined them by dissipation; and where, let the Editor add, he can boast of having four worthy brother-elders of the Church, common working colliers of Millerhill, Adam's Row, and Craighall.
                     Most needful are the services of Lord Ashley and Mr. Glass, in a quarter hard by the scene of this tract; where are to be found another set of females and families, still persisting in a vicious old custom, which ought instantly to be put an end to. The fishwomen of Fisherrow quit their homes every morning with loads on their backs for the markets of Edinburgh, and not returning till nightfall, leave their children meanwhile either to roam about neglected, or intrusted to the care of hirelings incapable of doing them real good. Thirteen sea-captains, it is said, not long ago had risen from being fisher-boys in Cellardyke, where the women are "keepers at home." We doubt if, at the present moment, there be one such from Fisherrow, where the women, though not "idle," which indeed they are not, for they are active and industrious, are, at all events, to be found, in their industry, "wandering about from house to house;" and not only so, "but tattlers also," "speaking things which they ought not."
                   Not that things are yet as they ought to be. The colliers have long been in a sort of pupilage, breaking out, like children, into play many a time when they ought to work, and particularly liable to this folly when a neighboring fair or horse-race seduces them from their propriety. It is too true yet, for example, that Dalkeith Fair witnesses a week of idleness in this quarter, where there should not be even a day. But the fearful length of the hours of underground work-twelve, thirteen, and even fourteen or more, sometimes on a stretch, a length of labor, to which no human being, even in the most airy work places, should be subjected-does afford some apology for their otherwise indefensible escapades into play. It is pleasing also to feel assured on this whole matter that, with the progress gress of heavenly wisdom, in which they are undoubtedly growing, a right worldly wisdom will likewise grow; and this, kept in its proper place, and begetting habits of patient industry, will reward them for any present self-denial which it may demand. 
               A practical remark of some value is forcibly suggested by one circumstance of this story, viz., the existence of an Air-gate between the two pits forming its scene, which became the means, and was the only means, of the escape of the colliers buried, while busied in their ordinary work. Would it not be well if, for protection against accidents, every coal district throughout the land were provided with similar openings? if-not between the pits of the same proprietor, but among the pits of the whole proprietors of a coal country-underground passages were established, that might, in every emergency, become places of refuge? if the mining regions below should everywhere be reticulated with intercommunications connecting with one another, and, at intervals, with the surface of the ground? Surely it would. But if such an arrangement would be good even for its remedial effect on occasions of comparatively rare occurrence, how infinitely greater would its value be in regard to the every day and every night concern of fresh air? Ventilation is a thing just about as important as it is little understood, in regard to our houses and public places above ground: but under ground, it is the very life of the people who there ply their unintermitting daily and nightly tasks. That it is little attended to in these regions, the statistics of collier life, with its "black spit" and its narrow span, but too fatally prove. In many collieries, the majority of the workers die of the species of consumption known as the "black spit," and the average of their life is not much above fifty. The continual inhalation of vitiated air, polluted by re-breathing, as well as by the constant gunpowder blastings, which charge it with sulphur,
                     In no quarter will the successful issue of Professor Schonbein's experiments be more welcome than in the mines. If the use of his gun cotton, exploding without residuum, should be once introduced, it will clear the pits of a great portion of the atmospheric evils under which they now labor. "Shot reek" rests like a gross murky cloud in the workings, and often is not dispelled when the second shot follows.
                   is the leading cause of this melancholy fact. By means of an extensive system of under-ground communications, spread like a net-work over the buried country below, there might be such an infusion of fresh air as would greatly relieve the evil, if it did not radically cure it. With the progress of science and the growth of a benevolent spirit, it is possible that a systematic regard may yet come to be paid to this. But the colliers are free men: their lives are in jeopardy: they ought to look to their interests. They have done well in recently substituting tallow oil in their lamps, because, though it costs more, it smokes less. But they cannot do everything. They cannot establish a sanatory cordon of air-passages over a coal country. Parliament, however, can, and the doors of Parliament are as open to them as to the wealthiest in the land. Let them use their privilege then, and petition, let them appeal to their tried friend, LORD ASHLEY, who will not reject their addresses, and may yet accomplish for them this territorial reform, in addition to the moral one of which he has been the honored author. 
               But we must return from this digression to the more immediate object of our tale, and take leave of the reader with one word more, which shall be this: Surely it was a great blessing, on the occasion forming the subject of this tract, to the people below, that there was a man among them who could lead them to God, and preserve them from that recklessness or despondency, either of which would have been their destruction! Surely to himself and to his comrades it was a blessing indeed, that this man's memory had been stored with Scriptures, becoming to them, in the hour of trial, a light shining in a dark place-a lamp to their feet, and a light to their paths! Let others, then, be induced, and especially the young, to follow his example; and while sight and light are given, "while the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars be not darkened," to store their minds richly with the Word of God. It may not be the lot of many, like these poor people, to be buried alive in the depths of the earth. But it may be the lot of all, and it will be the lot of most, to be stretched on beds of sickness, and to meet "the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened;" and there are none, save the Lord's people at His coming, whose lot it shall not be to "stumble upon the dark mountains," and to "walk through the valley of the shadow of death." Then will the preciousness be felt of a plentiful provision of Scripture promises; enabling the sufferer, under the guidance of the Spirit of God, "to lift up the hands which hand down, and the feeble knees, and make straight paths for the feet;" bringing "the blind by a way that they know not," "and in paths that they have not known;" making "darkness light before them, and crooked things straight;" and causing them, though blind and in darkness, to "to look for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God," which hath "no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it; for the glory of God doth lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof;" and where "they shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more, neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat," but they shall ceaselessly say, with 
                     a a
                     a
                   loud voice, "Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and glory, and blessing." "Blessing, and honor, and glory, and power unto Him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb forever and ever." 
               How truly, to all such, shall the Scriptures, in these trying hours, prove themselves indeed to be a 
                     Light in Darkness.
                  
                
               THE END. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
             
            BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Robert Carter & Brothers, 
            285 BROADWAY, NEW YORK. 
             
               ABEEL'S (Rev. David) Life. By his Nephew. mo $ 50 
               ABERCROMBIE'S Contest and The Armour. 32mo, gilt 25 
               ADAM'S Three Divine Sisters-Faith, Hope and Charity 60 
               ADVICE TO A YOUNG CHRISTIAN. 18mo 30 
               ALLEINE'S Gospel Promises. 18mo 30 
               -- Life and Letters. 12mo 60 
               ALEXANDER'S Counsels to the Young. 32mo, gilt 25 
               ANCIENT HISTORY of the Egyptians, Syrians, &c., 4 vols 2 00 
               ANDERSON'S Annals of the English Bible. 8vo 1 75 
               -- Family Book. 12mo 75 
               AUSTRALIA, the Loss of the Brig, by Fire. 18mo 25 
               BAGSTER-The Authenticity and Inspiration of the Bible 60 
               BAXTER'S Saint's Rest. Large type. 12mo 60 
               -- Call to the Unconverted. 18mo 30 
               -- Choice Works. 12mo 60 
               BIBLE EXPOSITOR. Illustrated. 18mo 50 
               BICKERSTETH'S Treatise on Prayer. 18mo 40 
               -- Treatise on the Lord's Supper. 18mo 30 
               BLOSSOMS OF CHILDHOOD. By the author of the "Broken Bud." 16mo 75 
               BLUNT'S Undesigned Coincidences, and Paley's Hor Paulin. In one volume, 8vo 2 00 
               BOGATZKY'S Golden Treasury. 24mo, gilt 50 
                
               BONAR'S (Rev. Horatius) Night of Weeping 20 
               --Morning of Joy, a sequel to the above 40 
               --Story of Grace 30 
               --Truth and Error. 18mo 40 
               --Man, his Religion and his World 40 
               BONAR'S (Rev. Andrew) Commentary on Leviticus. 8vo 1 50 
               BONNET'S Family of Bethany. 18mo 40 
               --Meditations on the Lord's Prayer. 18mo 40 
               BOOTH'S Reign of Grace. 12mo 75 
               BORROW'S Bible and Gipsies of Spain. 8vo, cloth 1 00 
               BOSTON'S Four-fold State. 18mo 50 
               --Crook in the Lot. 18mo 30 
               BRETT (Rev. W. H.)-The Indian Tribes of Guiana. Illustrated. 16mo 
               BROKEN BUD; or, the Reminiscences of a Bereaved Mother. With steel Frontispiece. 16mo 73 
               BROWN'S (Rev. John, D.D.) Exposition of First Peter. 8vo 2 50 
               --On the Sayings and Discourses of Christ. 3 vols. 8vo 
               BROWN'S Explication of the Assembly's Catechism. 12mo 60 
               BROWN (Rev. David) on the Second Advent. 12mo 1 25 
               BRIDGES on the Christian Ministry. 8vo 1 50 
               --On the Proverbs. 8vo 2 00 
               --On the CXIX. Psalm. New edition. 8vo 1 00 
               --Memoir of Mary Jane Graham. 8vo 1 00 
               --Works. 3 vols. 8vo, containing the above 5 00 
               BROWN'S Concordance. New and neat edition. 24mo 20 
               BROWN'S Concordance. Gilt edge 30 
               BUCHANAN'S Comfort in Affliction. 18mo 40 
               --On the Holy Spirit. 18mo. Second edition 50 
               BUNBURY'S Glory, Glory, Glory, and other Narratives 25 
               BUTLER'S (Bishop) Complete Works. 8vo 1 50 
               --Sermons, alone. 8vo 1 00 
               --Analogy, alone. 8vo 75 
               --and Wilson's Analogy. 8vo 1 25 
               BUNYAN'S Pilgrim's Progress, fine edition, large type. 12mo 1 00 
               BUNYAN'S Pilgrim's Progress, Gilt 1 50 
               BUNYAN'S Pilgrim's Progress, 18mo, close type 50 
               --Jerusalem Sinner Saved. 18mo 50 
               --Greatness of the Soul. 18mo 50 
               BURN'S (John) Christian Fragments. 18mo 40 
               BURNS' (Rev. Jabez) Parables and Miracles of Christ. 12mo 75 
               CALVIN-The Life and Times of John Calvin, the Great Reformer. By Paul Henry, D.D. 2 vols. 8vo, Portrait 3 00 
               CAMERON'S (Mrs) Farmer's Daughter. Illustrated 30 
             
          
       
   
