
    ----CITATION----
        Byrn, M. Lafayette (1826-1903). The Adventures of Fudge Fumble, or, The Love Scrapes of His Whole Life .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5968 wright2-0441
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               LIBRARY OF HUMOROUS AMERICAN WORKS.
               WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY DARLEY.
               THE ADVENTURES OF FUDGE FUMBLE
               with the LOVE SCRAPES OF HIS LIFE TIME
               BY
               "AUTHOR OF ARKANSAW DOCTOR."
               PHILADELPHIA,
               T. B. PETERSON & BROS.
            
         
         
         
            
            
               
                  "I went to a looking-glass to see if I could tell what was the matter, and if my face wasn't in black streaks all over you may shoot me; and my hand was in the same fix, or a little worse," etc.—Page 202.
               
            
         
         
            THE ADVENTURES OF FUDGE FUMBLE;
            OR, THE LOVE SCRAPES OF HIS WHOLE LIFE.
            
               
                  Fudge firing off his "Christmas guns," or a new mode of splitting hickory stumps.—Page 15.
               
            
            PHILADELPHIA: T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS.
         
         
         
            
            
               THE ADVENTURES OF FUDGE FUMBLE;
               OR, THE LOVE SCRAPES OF HIS WHOLE LIFE.
            
            BY DAVID RATTLEHEAD, M.D. AUTHOR OF "THE ARKANSAW DOCTOR," "RATTLEHEAD'S TRAVELS," "THE MAN OF MANY SCRAPES," ETC., ETC.
            FULL OF ILLUSTRATIVE ENGRAVINGS.
            
               Philadelphia:
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, 
                     306 CHESTNUT STREET.
                  
               
            
            
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
         
      
      
         
            The adventures of Fudge Fumble, or, The love scrapes of his whole life
            THE ADVENTURES OF FUDGE FUMBLE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               ERRORS OF EARLY LIFE, AND A FUSS IN THE FAMILY.
               IT is a little past three o'clock, and one of the days that no man, woman or child can keep dry, in doors or out-of-doors, for if not out in the rain and mud, there can be no doubt that a great big heavy feeling is over all nature, let their situation be what it may, and doubtless everybody must be in a regular "stew" and therefore they can't be dry. Such days as this reminds me of an old maid that I once knew, who was so ugly that she knocked down all the fences wherever she went by merely looking mad; and she had to purchase all of her chickens from her neighbors, her temper being so very much like thunder and lightning, that she killed all the little chickens in the shell before they were hatched. Some of her neighbors said that they have stood still and seen her twist a pig's tail off in less than two minutes, simply by getting into a fit of scolding Likewise, it is said that when the notion of "woman's rights" first struck female fancy, this lovely maiden friend of mine, screamed so loud, cut so many capers, jumped so high, and was so long in getting to earth again, that the waters of a certain spring near by became a specimen of the rawest, the rarest, the richest and the best vinegar that ever cooled down human passion, and has continued to the present day to gush forth as sour, swift and cerrtain; as the best acetic acid to be found at a drug store, and has proved a fortune to all the relatives and friends of the good maiden lady of riper years.
               This may seem to you a strange way to give one an idea of the prevailing weather, but if you had been the same rounds of trials and toils of to-day, you might also vote in favor of the comparison here made. Well, after tramping round most of the day, trying to do something, and returning home finding I had done nothing, only slipped down about a dozen times, and not having anything else in particular to think about, I got to thinking about my favorite old friend and class-mate in trouble and turnips, "Fudge Fumble," and my thoughts got the stouter of me and so I could not rest until I commenced a history of his rambles, for no one else in the shape of humanity or woman-an-ity can tell so much about that dear fellow, Fumble, as I can, for him and I have been in enough tight places together to squeeze the "milk of human kindness," and the oil of impatience out of most of those of whom it has been our misfortune to become acquainted with during life.
               It makes me feel all over like silk velvet now, when I think of some of the broad escapes and sharp hits that Fudge has made in days that neither he nor I, nor you will ever see again, for the night was so dark he could not see anything, not even the darkness.
               But as you prefer having them a little more in detail, and as you can judge for yourself, I will not longer detain you "on the premises," but will take up the line of march, hoping you will do Fumble and myself the honor of following on, for we must "go ahead" whether meat or money comes in our way. I must in the first place, though, ask you to "stand fire" while I give you a little history of Mr. Fumble's personal and spiritual appearance. Suppose then, that I hand him over to you at the age of twenty-four, when he was about as near his best as he ever got to be. He was about five feet nine inches tall, and a head of hair that would rank well with a modern and moderate-sized brush-heap; his nose rather of the Alabama cast, that is, it looked much like a crooked piece of cast iron, well shaped, except that the edges were a little rugged, but on the whole a nose as good-looking as you generally see. He had a head that jotted out before like a corpulent pocket-book, and bore evidence that within was a good supply of the needful; his ears not quite so large as an oyster shell, and though resembling one in some respects, was evidently better looking, and would rank well with those ornamental extras, seen protruding from the head of any other biped of modern or ancient date. I beg your forgiveness, gentle fellow mortals, but I must have my way of describing the "phiz" of my friend Fumble. His mouth, bounded on the north by the superior wings of the nose, hung like some neatly adjusted piece of drapery; it had an "open and shut" appearance, and a casual observer could see room for hiding a reasonable amount of the good things of earth, and ample space for the production of sound when occasion called for it.
               He had teeth that set straight in their sockets and resembled no little some article recently whitewashed, smooth and white as new paper; a chin not half as sharp as his elbow, and yet not so flat as a common smoothing-iron; whiskers that were few and far between, showing plainly that his scalp had more than its share of this desirable ornament, and left the face with a perpetual "injunction" on its hairy crop, with a "stay of proceedings" that I need not further enumerate; cheek-bones that were not ashamed or afraid to make themselves known, and neck rather long in proportion to the other parts of his body. Imagine the man pretty fairly and fully described thus far and see him slumbering before you and he makes a reasonable appearance, for his eyes speak for themselves, as they have no spongy or sleepy appearance. Eyebrows that would knock shame out of a weeping-willow in midsummer, he possessed, while his "lashers" did honor to his family, approaching in perfection the blades of green corn wafted by a gentle autumn breeze, from stalk to stalk.
               Fumble had a disposition peculiar to himself, which he well knew and therefore took no great pains to inform himself or that point, in what that peculiarity consisted. He would stand hard by a friend in the softest seasons, and no changes of temperature could make him stand still and hear one of his friends abused in his absence. Whatever he had, any one of his friends could lay hands to with impunity, but when he hated any of Adam's fallen race he hated them with all his might, strength and power, and to tell the flat truth, he could exercise the coldest indifference towards those that he did not think worth hating, of any man I have ever yet met with.
               Fumble was sometimes exceedingly superstitious, on one point or another, but always so, concerning that celebrated day of the week, Friday. No matter how small might be the undertaking, he could not be persuaded to commence any new engagement, or enterprise on that day. Any thing which he might have on hand, he would go at tooth and toe-nail, "but as for beginning a thing on Friday he would not If he thought of singing a song or dancing, on Friday he was certain to go in for a little practice on Thursday evening previous, so that he could have it to say he did not begin on Friday. He possessed the belief of course that it was "unlucky" to begin any thing on this noted day and for that reason "stuck to his rack fodder or no fodder." There are many other peculiarities which belonged to him, but as you will be very apt to discover them during our Rambles, we will not mention them here any further in detail.
               It would be unnecessary to say that our hero was born, for most of you believe that without telling, but any how we may mention that the first spot of earth that knew Fudge was a lovely spot in the eastern part of Tennessee or western part of Virginia, and as the two States join it would be hard to tell which, for the house that was honored with his "first appearance" stood smack on the state line. Leaving out of the question, points of interests connected with his boyhood, we fork him over to you smoking, at the age of twenty-four, and here you find him without much education obtained of books, but a store of knowledge handed him from nature with which most men might reasonably expect to make a living. At this interesting period of his life he manifested a disposition to "see a little of the world," and clung close to the idea of rambling, an inkling of which his parents had been put in possession of many years previous. This moving disposition had now so far displayed itself that nothing earthly could control it only a fair trial. About this time the old man, his father, concluded to remove to the middle part of the State of Tennessee, there to try his fortune. This little taste of travelling only increased his distaste for home and its social influences, and before one year more had elasped, Fudge had got into a muss with his "folks at home," because they did not entirely agree for him to become a regular southern and western rambler.
               But be things as they might, he quitted his happy home and dear relatives, and nothing would do but he must take a trip to Georgia, as a hand with a Hog-drover. The wages were comparatively light and labor very remarkably heavy, but as he would have an opportunity of "roughing it," and seeing much fun, go he would and must. Now, at this time there were persons in that part of the country buying up hogs to take to the Alabama and Georgia markets, and Fudge, thought it would be the nicest thing in the world to take a trip like that, as all hands along would be "jolly young fellows," ready for any and all kind of a life they might meet with. Fumble being of a sociable nature and longing very much for the pleasure of such society, he joined in as a hand at fifteen dollars a month, and boarded. At the rate at which hogs generally travel (ten miles a day) it took about two months and a half to make the trip; the hands being hired to drive the hogs as a necessary consequence had to "take things as they come;" wet or dry, hot or cold, they must be on hand or the drove could not be managed. The time for gathering the hogs together from the different parts of the neighborhood having arrived, Fumble was on hand like a boy on the Mississippi, boasting no little of the abilities he possessed in managing all swinish creation. Seventy-five or eighty of the bristlers being driven into a small pen, for the purpose of weighing them, our friend Fudge was politely invited by the drover to catch a hog for testing how much he would pull down in clean fat.
               The first pass that he made was at the largest "old stag" in the pen. The bristles of both were raised about the same time and our brave friend in attempting to get the hog by the hind leg so as to secure him, was not fast enough, and before he knew what was going on he was flat of his back in six inches of mud and the big tusks of the old stag trying the strength of his trowsers. He must have thought that the entire swine kingdom was let loose on him, and that the best part of his flesh was destined to meet its level in the hog's grinders, for no mortal ever scattered mud more scientifically, or bawled louder in a tight place than he did. This had the effect of frightning most of the hogs to another part of the pen, but this "old stag" seemed to think he had met a regular four-footer of his own species, and was not willing to back down short of victory. By this time Fumble had got upon his "hunkers," or rather half way on his knees, and elated with hope of conquering, and seeing no chance of an honorable retreat, he went in for a fight that would have done credit to one of maturer years or stronger muscle. Fumble was now in the worst position, though, he
                     "The fight did not progress much farther before Fudge made a slip in the mud and down he came again, flat on his back, and his assailant then come on him 'spoon fashion,'" etc.—Page 7.
                  
                   possibly could be for himself, and the most favorable for his antagonist; the tusks of the old stag now became available, and he could bring them to bear equal to a mustard plaster or a fly blister. Rip! Rip! went the tusks, of the stag, demolishing at each and every edition, quarter sections of Fumble's new suit of clothes, and performing semi-circular incisions in his superficial muscles, that made one's hair stand on end to behold.
               Fudge was not altogether idle neither, for he pounded his enemy in the short ribs amazingly at least ten times a minute, but owing to a good supply of fat in that region, the blows fell without much force. I can assure you on the honor of a "Didapper" that it was just enough to melt a man's liver to look at the two enraged "duelsts," fighting for life and leather in their muddy predicament. While this was going on some thirty rough looking samples of Tenneseans were sitting on the fence, laughing their stomach's out of joint, to see what a wealthy piece of fun was spreading itself out to their view, no one dreaming that Fudge would sustain any permanent injury. The fight did not progress much farther before Fudge made a slip in the mud and down he came again, flat of his back and his assailant then come on him "spoon fashion." Perhaps Fumble would have now called for help had it not been for an old fellow calling out to him to "gouge him, Fumble, gouge him?" He lost no time to fulfil the commandment of his worthy friend, and socked his fingers right slap into swiney's peepers. This was a dead hit, for the hog squealed out wofully, droped his tail, and started, thinking if he could do nothing more he could "leave," but as he went to jump over Fumble, the old stag found his hind foot had struck hard into a "vice" which resulted in his being thrown on the ground, and it then being Fumble's turn of luck he mounted hoggy plastered over his eyes with mud, and shutting off the "peep of day," while he next poured into him a flogging that felt weighty, and before ten minutes Fumble had the bristled champion at the balance rope, his weight tested, a mark put on him and tumbled into another pen, bearing a "hog gish appearance."
               The hog got the worst of it after all, and Fumble won a victory that did much for him; the drover was made to believe that Fudge would fight if it became necessary, any time during the trip, either man or beast, and he gave Fudge the preference always after.
               The preparations being all completed, the requisite number of hogs purchased, and the weather favorable we will commence to Ramble, for Fudge Fumble is now regularly broke in, and all the world is before him.
               The whole neighborhood is all life and animation, thousands of dollars are at stake and very much depends on the success attending this "hog merchant" as he may be called, for most of these hogs have been bought on credit, to be paid for when the drover returns, and should ill-luck attend him, some person or perchance many, may have to wait a whole year, and possibly all time before they get paid for their "live stock."
               Well, we have started—are making our journey—and everything is stirring by sunrise or earlier. No little trouble it is to "break in" a drove of hogs so that they will go on smoothly, for the notion of home is still in their recollection, and they prefer staying where they are best acquainted. Fumble is the champion of the day, having picked out the biggest hog in the drove the first trial, and of course he takes the lead. It is ten o'clock, and all has gone well so far, but some old hog wants to get away, and dashes out into the bushes to make his escape; John Smith or Tom Jones there to the right who is riding a mule, puts his spurs to the animal and tries to head off the hog before he is too far away; the hog is seen streaking it through the undergrowth, trying to hold himself from view, but an open place here and there tells where he may be seen, and that man on the mule tries his best to overhaul him, but the animals sympathise with each other, and muley stands still as a stump; Smith raves and kicks the harder, but unfortunately when he comes to examine more closely he finds that he has left his spurs at home, and no other power could move that mule.
               Despairing of making his mule jump that little gully, he halloes out for Jones to head the hog, but Jones is riding one horse, with twenty or thirty over coats before him belonging to those who are on foot and nearly worn out with fatigue, and leading the horse belonging to the drover, so he can't think of going; consequently the hog is lost.
               Night comes on and some one goes ahead to engage a place to stop at, and where the hogs can have plenty of corn, and the "hands" a place to cook for themselves, and a house in which to stop. By night fall all has been quietly settled; the hogs fed; the one who acts as cook is busily engaged preparing supper in a rude but substantial manner, while the others are engaged "spinning yarns" or mending their dilapidated pantaloons.
               Thus from day to day do they all spend their time, and the further from home they get the less trouble do they see, for the hogs become trained to the road, and are not much trouble, unless occasionally one should "break down," when he is killed, salted up and sold the first opportunity, or served up for food for the hands. A one-horse waggon is usually kept along for the purpose of taking care of such meat till it is sold or consumed. Let whatever weather come that may, some one of the hands must remain up as "watch," to prevent the hogs from being stolen at night, while the others are either sleeping or enjoying themselves as may best suit them.
               About two weeks from the time that the drove started in which Fumble was a hand, it happened on a certain night, when the weather was very fine, that it came to Fudge's time to "stand guard," that is, from twelve till three o'clock, he must watch the hog-pen to keep rogues away. The hands all being very tired had gone to bed early, and Fudge was tired also, and although he felt the responsibility of his situation, his wearied powers got the upper hand of him, and very soon he was quietly seated by the south side of an old stump, trying to rest his bones for a few moments, although against orders. While yet he rested he thought he saw the form of a man approach near him with a dagger in hand to murder him, that the watch being out of the way, he might take as many hogs as he wanted. The dagger is raised, and soon the fatal blow must fall. Fumble thinks the sharp-cutting steel will pierce his vitals; he can no longer stand it, though he holds a deadly revolver in hand, for it is paralyzed, and he thinks it policy to call loudly for help.
               The sound of "Murder! murder! help! run here!" is heard resounding through the adjacent woods, in a fierce, eager style that tells but too plain some poor mortal is in a dying situation, and but few moments left in which to give his history. Who knows but that it may be that deadly foe to all white people, the Cherokee Indian; for we are now on the borders of the "Cherokee nation." Poor Fumble is to learn his first lesson in life very dearly; will it not cost him his life? Why does he not speak or shoot, one of the two? for danger hovers close around him; he is at the mercy of one who is a stranger to any feeling of sympathy. His cries rise higher and louder for succor, and the doleful sound becomes more pitiful, as if the least and the last energies of dissolving nature were brought into play. Dark midnight and death in all its horrors comes rushing on! Alas! Fumble, you have met your destiny in "roughing it," for it is indeed rough.
               These cries which rend the air do not fly away in the emptiness of oblivion, never again to be remembered. The hogs are roused from their slumbers in a state of excitement which no one can soon quiet; everything is confusion and dread; the hogs running from one side of the lot to another, trying to burst the very fence itself, and thus avoid the butchering knife of the robber, making a noise as they ran like distant thunder. The drover himself, though reposing on a good bed, does not, from some cause, sleep well, and he is the first who hears the cry of murder. Concluding that it can be no one but Fumble, and hearing the noise with the hogs, he must know that a time ef excitement has at last arrived. He jumps out of bed, and in a few moments, though poorly fixed up for company, he rushes out with his long sharp steel in one hand, and his pistol in the other. In a few moments all the hands are on foot, waiting orders, not knowing what can be the matter, although orders, not knowing what can be the matter, although Black, the drover, is calling loudly for them to come out; the voice of poor Fumble, in his dying agonies is now heard also, appealing to his comrades for help, while the noise now darting through the air tells to an experienced ear that fences are falling, and hogs are scattering to the wild woods round about. Mr. Black tells all hands to follow him, and on he goes, frantic with rage and fear, to be avenged on the midnight robber and assassin. Before the hands can all get out of the house, Black is within a few steps of Fumble, and as he nears the spot he sees a man making tracks hastily from the spot where the unfortunate man lies in his horrid situation; Black calls to him to stop or he will shoot him down, but it is in vain, the murderer only makes the more speed to avoid approaching danger, for he knows it is but death anyhow should he be overtaken; his only safety is in flight, and he uses well his time, being well aware of the fact that hog-drovers dash like blood-hounds through the thickest woods or an almost impenetrable cane-brake.
               Black sees it is useless to wait longer, and fearing he may lose a chance to save his game, he raises his pistol to what he thinks about the right place, pulls the trigger, and the old lady, as he called her, belched forth a deafning sound, and at the same time sending the ball to the right place. The smoke has not began to clear away before he knows he has made a "center shot," for the robber falls prostrate, bleeding, to the earth, uttering a dying groan as he falls, which is heard in the far distance, echoing back again and again, till all surrounding living creation hears the sound and is content therewith.
               By this time the hands have all come up, and they think it best first see that the robber cannot get away, and watch if there are not others running away, for there may be half a dozen in the same crowd. They approach the spot rather cautiously, but what is the surprise of all, but more particularly Mr. Black, to behold lying on the ground kicking and struggling, a colored man in the form of, and being nothing less than a two year old calf, that had certainly been mortally wounded.
               Speculation is unnecessary; every one can form some idea of how all felt who were interested on that occasion. The next point to be looked to was our friend Fumble, and here we would take occasion to show a piece of as cool and collected a business as it has ever been our lot to witness in any man; Fumble well knew he had done wrong in sitting himself down by that stump while on watch, and to keep himself out of trouble he humored things remarkably well. He had discovered how matters stood, and when all the hands had returned to where he was, he told them that two men had been trying to "gag" him, while two others intended helping themselves to a lot of hogs, and seeing his situation, he did not know what else to do but call for help, which he had done "to the best of his knowledge and abilities," which had proved eminently successful, in saving him from disgrace and the hogs from being taken, though the noise had so alarmed them that they had broken down the fence and made their escape.
               This was swallowed down without further greas ing, but the real truth of the matter was, as Fumble told it to me on his return home, that as he sat by the old stump he went to sleep, and dreamed of being attacked by a man who was trying to put his long knife into him in the most scientific manner; he called for help in his dream and help came wide awake, who shot down a calf the first fire, and it was the report of the pistol that first brought Fudge to a sense of his innocent situation, at least in no danger from robbers.
               This dream and consequent realities caused a delay of some forty-eight hours, for the purpose of hunting up the hogs, and after all the trouble, more than one hundred were lost that Mr. Black never found. The loss of so many not only knocked off the profit, but drove into the capital stock with a coming appetite, so much so, that the drover was flat broke, and found he had better take what he got for his hogs after getting them in market and slope for Texas, which he did, leaving most of his hands without a dollar with which to get back home on, and they had to write to their friends for the amount requisite; their mode of travelling was on foot, making about thirty or thirty-five miles a day. This little matter caused much trouble in the section of country where the hogs had been purchased, but this we cannot now stop to comment on, or else Fumble in his rambles will be lost sight of, and might not be so easily found again so we will "keep an eye on him."
               Fumble though left without money, felt that he deserved none from Mr. B. for his unlucky nap that night was what had created all the trouble. He was not in a situation to write to his friends for money, for he had left them without their consent, and in truth for little or no cause, which now created feelings which he was by no means fond of, and as his inward heart was moved with emotion he sometimes wished he had not taken such a rash step, not knowing what the consequences might be, for their is no counting the future wills or ills of human life, only in the imagination.
               Finding himself thus situated he did like many a poor man has since done and many will yet do—he run his hands deep, deep into his pockets to find them full of emptiness, nothing. Light pockets make heavy hearts and Fumble was now sorely troubled to tell what he should do. The bright sun was shining as it only shines of a lovely winter's day in the south, and Fudge was sitting on an old log with his favorite old pocket-knife whittling a piece of pine, basking in the rays of the bright luminary, thinking what the future could tell in his history, and ready and willing to commence at anything by which he could make a little money, thereby relieving present miseries if not brightening future hopes. While he was quietly resting himself in this place an old man came along, and suspecting what was the matter he commenced a conversation with Fumble, and in the course of his remarks he found out Fumble was really "as poor as Job's turkey," and seeing he was willing to work he offered him a bit of an undertaking to go into if he saw proper. Fumble went with him, took dinner, and then they walked out to see if they could strike a bargain.
               In a little skirt of woods near by, lay as fine a lot of "scrubby black jacks" and "knotty hickorys" as ever you peeled your eye over, and the old man told Fumble if he would split them up he would give him five dollars; this our friend thought was the luckiest hit he had made in a "coon's age," so hauling off his extra linen he pitched into it.
               After working his "level best" for about half the day, he found that, 
                     
                        "There's more pleasure in pursuit,
                        Than in the possession."
                     
                   for he had as well undertaken to split a "horn of the moon" before it was full grown as to try splitting "scrubby black jacks," and "knotty hickorys."
                     Fudge firing off his "Christmas guns," or a new mode of splittlng hickory stumps. Page 15.
                  
                   However, Fumble was a man of no ordinary determination—he was the "pure grit," and determined in his own mind that what the mawl and wedge had failed to do, old gunpowder should make up for, and sat about to find the article wanted.
               Before two hours had passed he had bored holes in the hogs, filled them with powder and was soon rousting the whole section of country with his "big Christmas guns," as he took a pleasure in calling them. So much force was not spent entirely in vain, for the logs were torn asunder without a doubt, and before sunset he had complied with his contract.
               It need not appear strange to you that the old fellow who had engaged Fumble to do the work, was greatly surprised to find his logs split per agreement, in fact, he thought the young chap would give it up for a bad job before half an hour. This determination on the part of Fudge secured for him a true and lasting friend, one who was willing and able to help him, and before long he had plenty of work to do, for which he obtained the highest wages.
               However, when he had got a little "pile" in his pockets he thought of his "own dear native home" in Tennessee, and nothing could induce him to stay. All the other hands had long since gone back home, and now he would follow on in their footsteps, and footsteps it was in reality, for he had to walk every step of the way on the principle of "flat-footed exercise."
               At that day many a red man walked the wilds of the "Chickasaw" and "Cherokee" country, through which Fumble had to pass. The Indians were anything but desirable to come in contact with, but there were white men, who were more dangerous enemies to the traveller than the poor savage, for they presented themselves as a friend to the wayworn home-seeker, who, confiding in one of their own blood and color, were but too often murdered and their money taken charge of. It was a well-known fact that persons who had acted in the capacity of a "Hand" not unfrequently returned home on foot, in fact that was the usual custom, but the "drover," or the one who owned the hogs returned on horseback. The "Hands" were scarcely ever molested, as it was thought they had but little money, while many a drover met here an untimely death. This being the order of things, drovers got into the habit of returning in the garb of a "Hand" to avoid those who might seek their money and life. This game the way-robbers soon found out, and about the time Fumble was returning home it was a rule to rob every one whom they could find unprotected, and certainly Fumble showed as few signs of being protected as any man seen on the road.
               He had passed through what was known as the "Indian nation," and had stopped some ten miles from the Indian line at what he thought was a "respectable house," to stay all night that he might rest his wearied limbs. The accommodations were poor while the charges were corpulent. Soon after supper, being tired he proposed going to bed, and was shown by a negro boy to a little outhouse a few steps from the main building, in which was one bed and a small fire-place.
               While Fumble is preparing to retire, let us look into the room from which he has gone and see if anything unusual is going on. The landlord makes a noise well-known to many an ear and soon the form of three men came in from the woods near by, and a harder looking lot have never gone unpunished on the face of all the earth. They look like some fiends whom the devil himself had refused admittance into the infernal regions, the blackness of crime stamped on their very countenance. "Men, there be work for your hands to-night for which we will all be well paid, no doubt but this 'footman' is one of them 'cute drovers' who ape poverty, while loaded down with money. His appearance anyhow, justifies an inquiry into his finances, which must be done at two o'clock in the morning while he yet sleeps the soundest."
               Thus spoke the landlord to the black imps who did all the murder which could be done without notice, for which they received "half the profits." They all then separated with the understanding that the traveller was to be numbered among the dead before the light of another sun should break away the darkness. This traveller was Fudge Fumble! We will again go into his room and see if he has any intimation of approaching danger, if not can not we warn him? I think we may perhaps.
               When Fumble went into the room to go to bed he felt very sleepy and soon made ready for rest. He pulled off his boots and, as usual, he thought to sit them under the bed, but he found that they struck against something sounding like a box, and on raising the frill of the bed, he discovered a rough looking box on which were many stains of blood! Such a horrid sight. Sleep quickly banished from his eyes, he had heard too often of the "Cherokee nation," and the many good men who have lost their lives and fortunes there. He stands like a wild man not knowing what to do, but list you, he must come soon to some conclusion.
               He quieted his nerves as much as any man could have done in the same situation, and went to the side of the bed again to look at the blood-stained box underneath where he had intended sleeping. His search now went further, and he discovered the box to be more than six feet in length and its appearance in every respect peculiar. He thought himself justified in looking inside of it; he did so, and what was his feelings to find a man there with his throat cut from ear to ear and more than twenty wounds in various parts of his body, showing that before yielding up his life he had struggled as only dying men struggle!
               Fumble in a moment discovered the game the bloody assassins were playing with travellers; they made it a rule to keep the box under the bed, so if anything happened that they could not take the man whom they had murdered away from the house without running a risk of being seen, they could put his body in the box and let it remain till next night, when they could take it away in the dark and dispose of it. The night before Fumble called to stay all night they had killed a man and had put him in this box, and as Fumble had chosen to retire early no chance had been given for the body to be taken out of the way, but they had no thought of Fumble examining anything, he was so sleepy.
               Fumble knew their plan would be to come in by a hole which he discovered made into the wall in a very nice way, calculated to deceive almost any one except him who now felt the truly horrible situation in which he was placed. If he attempted to escape he did not know but they might be watching and would shoot him down as soon as he emerged from the door. If he went to sleep he would wake up to find himself in eternity; if he lay awake he could not contend against such overwhelming odds in numbers, and would as certainly die in a struggle, as the cold and lifeless form that then lay before him! What, then, could be done? and what must he do? for he did not then know how soon they might be upon him. 'Tis such times as these that tries a man's soul, his courage, and his common sense; Fumble put them all into action.
               He now blew out the light, made the door fast where he had come in at, and acted in every way so as to make the robbers think he was sleeping soundly; he took the dead man that lay in the box, and by a master effort got him into the bed, and covered him up in such a way that they could not tell in the dark one from the other—the dead from the living—for their plan was to come in at the hole in the wall in as easy a way as possible, so as not to wake their victim lest he might make light with some deadly weapon, and send some of them to that "bourne from which no traveller returns."
               Fumble then got his pistol and knife, which he almost always carried with him, laid them in the box, and then got in himself. He then fixed the lid over the box in such a way as he could breathe with freedom until he might hear the approach of those who sought his life, when he intended adjusting it so as they would not have any suspicion. This was a trying situation, but it was his only chance.
               Here he lay with his pistol and knife ready for action for several hours in the most agonising suspense. At last two o'clock came, and with it came the bloody robbers; they stole in, three of them, as easy as practised hands usually do, and soon were at the bedside of what they thought a living mortal. A faint whisper is heard, and next comes the sound of a heavy blow with an axe driving itself into the man's brain. Not a struggle ensued, of course, and next we hear the head one cry out,
               "Never mind him, boys, any longer, he is dead; now we must help this other fellow underneath here to a resting-place out in the pine woods, for he will begin to smell by to-morrow; come, hurry up, it is getting late and we must work lively or we won't be back before daybreak overtakes us. Get hold, get hold, there of the box, tie that rope around it first, Bill, and there will not be any danger of dropping him out on the way like we did that big fat chap night before last; Dick has got that hole dug before this time, so when we get there we will only have to chuck him in and be off in no time."
               Before this conversation had ended they had tied a rope fast around the box, and then calling for another man, making four in all, they swung it on ropes, and were soon making for the "hole in the pine woods" where they expected to deposit their surplus burthen. Only think of poor Fumble in that box, nearly suffocated for want of air, and his nerves on a stretch, as tremulous as a dying culprit!
               Those black-hearted villains made quick work of their trip, and soon they had laid down the box beside side the grave of what they thought their victim of the previous night, and as they did so uttered some horrid oaths on account of being tired. They had untied and taken off the rope which bound the lid on the coffin or box, leaving Fumble some eight or ten paces from them. "Now or never" was his time, and as one of them spoke up and said, "I reckon we had as well throw him in and go back home," Fumble spoke in a low, deathlike, tremulous voice, but loud enough for all to hear him, "Thus far hast thou gone, but no further shalt thou carry me; death no longer holds me, and I will be avenged on my murderers," and as he thus spoke he rose up out of the box and let them know that their ears did not deceive them.
               As might be expected, the very thought of the man coming to life and speaking thus, whom they had murdered twenty-four hours before, ran like the chill of death through their inmost souls, and they made good their escape as speedily as possible. Fumble did not lose any time in making himself scarce, and before daylight he had found a habitation where human beings lived, and he then told his shocking experience. In less than two hours enough neighbors had been collected together to take the villains captive, and before twelve o'clock they had all "pulled hemp," and swung dead in the air.
               This one circumstanee did more to break up the gang of robbers along that road than any other ever did before or since, and we think that Fudge Fumble deserves credit for the original plan which he called successfully into action, for there are thousands whose hearts would have sunk under the influence of such harrowing thoughts, and many who boast of boldness would now have been lying low in the silent woods of Georgia, with none but the robbers and God himself to know where their remains were returning to their mother dust.
               After waiting two or three days and being handsomely rewarded by the citizens for his conduct, Fumble again took up the line of march for his native home. And now while he is relating his rambles to his friends, we will take a little repose, that we may be better prepared to follow him on his next travelling expedition. I very much hope we may not meet with so many serious accidents in our next rambles, or else you may become discouraged; but do not despair, Fumble has many traits of character which you cannot fail to admire, though he will "Ramble" a little too far from home sometimes. But now, good-night.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               THE SCHOOL-GIRL OF THE "HAUNTED OAK."
               FUMBLE returned to the bosom of his friends, but very soon his rambling notions were again predominant, and he could not be content to remain among those who were bound to him by the ties of nature. Without a doubt a man cannot be possessed of any disposition so likely to lead him into trouble as what is ordinarily termed a roving or rambling disposition.
               One thus possessed cannot be content with the brightest scenes of life, and no consideration can cause them long at a time to quietly sit down and view passing events of time, as reason would dictate to any other mind was the proper way to get along in the world. This was always the great trouble with our friend Fumble; he thought there must be something just ahead of more interest and importance to him than he had ever seen, and that he must go and seek the great fortune or the untold happiness.
               As we go along we must remind our readers that Fudge Fumble has done his share of courting in this world, and doubtless there cannot be found another man on the face and eyes of the whole world who loved the "fair sex" more dearly than he has done. He has had almost as many fancies for the "young and beautiful" as he has had for the various localities that have been honored by his visits, and as a matter of common sense, any half-witted genius must know, or believe very firmly, that no one whose fancy is so varied can escape the many ills that hath been given to all of Adam's race as a never failing legacy.
               This was one great trouble that Fudge had to contend with, he was always in love with some "fair lady" or another, and though his intentions were firm and well-placed, his realities were made up of various colors from a light "blue" to the "darkest clouded."
               One would be disposed to think, who knew him, that he understood female frailties and feminine characters remarkably well, but from some cause he would get into one trouble or another with the object of his tenderest affections.
               But as we propose giving them in detail and in Fumble's own language, his peculiar mode of description, we need not here do more than to say that these love scrapes will come in as we progress in our "Rambles," giving here and there Fudge's experience so as you may better appreciate his troubles with the female world as well as with "the rest of the world" in general.
               To give his experience with those he "loved like life," the ladies, and leave out his reminiscence of rambles would be doing him injustice. We will now give you his first courtship in his own language:
               "My son, you must now quit your nonsense, and go to school regularly; you are past fourteen, and in a few years you will be old enough to shift for yourself; I am anxious that you should try to learn; I know you can learn very fast if you will try, so in the morning get up soon, fix all your little things, and go to school; the crop is all laid by now, I will not interrupt you any more until fodder-pulling time, when you know we have to lay up something for the horses that we use on the farm.'"
               Thus spoke my dear father one Sunday evening, after I had disobeyed his orders, and had gone out fishing on Sunday. He did not wish to correct me in anything like a severe manner for my misconduct, but he was greatly displeased to think me guilty of anything so wicked as breaking the Sabbath. My mother, also, often lectured me on the great importance of respecting that day, which has been set apart for rest, but regardless of all these considerations, I sometimes stole off and went with a favorite negro boy belonging to my father, to engage in sports which I did not think was much wicked, but which were, in every sense of the word very much so.
               I had previously gone to school in that peculiar way, that I had not learned much; that is, I had gone for a few weeks at a time, only, and then I had been taken away to work on the farm, and before another opportunity offered, I had forgotten what I learned before, and thus kept at nearly the same mark all the time.
               Well, when Monday morning came, I was as ready to go to school as I ever had been before; got up early, and made preparation for going. The school house to which I was going, was one that is familiar to every man raised in the backwoods—a plain, simple, low, little, easy log cabin, with a dirty chimney at one end of it. The one where I intended to go that morning had been built by the neighbors, and some one gave it the name of "Buckeye Academy," from the fact that it was built principally of buckeye logs. It was on the top of a little rocky hill, and in the middle of a beautiful grove of trees, near where there was a tree that had long borne the name of the "haunted oak," from the fact of several persons seeing "sights" near it.
               It was on this little hill that I learned some of the best lessons of morality, and did many other things which you shall hear of in the course of time, if I should live, and have leisure to tell you about them.
               
               This "haunted oak," that I speak of, was, a rare tree any way you could take it; in size it far surpassed the most of trees in that section of country, A man was once running a horse, on a dark night, along the road, and when he got near this tree the horse took fright, threw him off and killed him.—Ever after that, sights the most horrible to relate, could be seen close to that tree. On a certain night a young man, scarcely out of his teens, was passing there, and all at once he said a great horse of fire raised up, got on his shoulders and rode him home. There were others that saw balls of fire, angels, white things, black things, and all other sorts of creatures, and run from them like a "hog in harness," but a man happened to pass there after dark one night, who had taken a horn or two and was braver than common. When he came near he saw the white thing standing there, looking, as he imagined, like a beautiful woman. He could not stand it to pass without speaking to her, but she made no reply.
               He then got off his horse, walked up and said to her, "I will put my hand on you to tell you what you are," as he said it he thrust his hand forward with considerable force, but instead of coming in contact with "dermoid tissue," he rushed into the midst of a thorn bush, and the way he got his hand lanced in a doxed places was better than a surgeon could do it. The blood run "free as water" amid the volley of oaths he showered on everything around him, and the thorn bush too. He cut down the thorn bush and the ghost disappeared. The reason that I have said so much about this tree, the thorn bush, &c., is, that under its branches commenced my career as one who could sum up courage sufficient to "pop the question." On the Monday morning of which I have been speaking, I took up a small tin bucket filled with eatables, a small lot of books, pen, ink, and paper, and marched off to school.
               The teacher was a good clever man from Virginia, who was on the sour side of sixty, and just ready to enter his "second childhood." To please him was my first object; then I thought I could do pretty much as I pleased. I flattered his Halifax and Blue Ridge notions, spoke highly of George Washington and the Rappahannock, and him and I were soon on as good terms as two "sheep killing dogs." All right, I'll look around and see some of these pretty girls. I believe I am most grown any how,—I will have a beard in a year, I know, and then if I don't make these shamed faced boys stand off, I'm a hoss; I don't know what that gal meant, though, by saying, "Has your ma'rm weaned you yet?" I will find out, though.
               I reasoned at some length concerning how I should make a start; I felt a little of the most like saying something you ever saw a little chap, but still I did not know exactly how to commence. There was a young girl going to school by the name of Miss Sally Ball, that I concluded was "good looking," and I felt like I should be happy to talk to her occasionally. She was about thirteen, and the fifteenth year was just entering on me, so you see we were of a very nice age to begin courting. Some people might say it was rather young, but every one to their taste. I had a tasting that led me to want to taste how her lips tasted, but I would not dare attempt such a thing without becoming acquainted with her.
               I had been going to school for three or four days, but could not learn anything, for wanting to speak to Miss Sally. She went out every day to this large oak that I have described, and sat on a log near to the root of the tree, while she worked her sums, or got a lesson in Geography. I would go to the spring more than twenty times a day for the sake of passing where she was, and as I passed I smiled as sweet as stewed onions and looked as romantic as ripe strawberries.
               She seemed to have a half-way hankering notion that I thought she was pretty, and sometimes when I looked at her with such smiles, and run my hands away down into the pockets of my tow trowsers, she would look up and get as red in the face! ugh!
               I could'nt see anything for her to get so mad about, but still I kept my distance. At last, Saturday morning intended to come, that is, it was Friday afternoon, close on to the evening, and there was to be no more school till Monday; and rather than run the risk of being miserable two days and nights on uncertainties, I thought the best plan would be to break the goard so as to have an excuse to ask her if she could not bring one for next week.
               I went to the spring made a mis-step on purpose fell down and broke the goard all to little bits of pieces; I took up the remains, came on by where she was, and made an open confession that I had broke the goard, at the same time asking her if she would not bring another on Monday. She said "for the sake of saving me from a drubbing, which the school-master would give me unless there was a goard at the spring on Monday, she would bring one."
               I wish you may mash the small end o'my smeller with a sledge hammer if. I did'nt jump right straight into the atmosphere near four feet, clean shod, and said "go it boots, your Daddy's rich." She throwed her round little face into the most delicious wrinkles, running back from her chin to her ears that ever stole over my recollection since I have been living. I felt as big as every body put together and two over, all at once, when she looked at me and laughed so deliciously.
               I squatted down, commenced talking to that gal by baskets full, and now did'nt I keep at it till she gnawed off all the corners of her books, and finger nails, and then commenced on the bark of the tree! While I was doing my level best, and felt like I was half-way to the good world, the old school master looked out through a crack and said, "what are you at there Fudge?" "Nothing sir," and away I run to the school-house, leaving Sally frightened three parts to death; and says I "yes sir, I was showing Sally how to do a sum."
               "Ah! you rascal you, I'll go a quarter on it, your mother was from old Rockingham, terrible place there for folks to marry young; did you never hear your mother say so?"
               "Many a time, sir, and she says I take after the family mightily."
               "Come children, throw up, and have a spelling, then we will go home," said he, and thus things ended for the first week.
               I went home feeling as happy as a bear eating hazel nuts, and wished every hour that Monday morning would come again. The school-master gave me a lesson to have ready for Monday, but he had as well told me to swallow mill-stones, for I could think of nothing but Sally.
               Well, Monday with all its beauties, and its mocking birds did come, and I was off to school before breakfast was fairly over to see if Sally had brought the goard. She was there to the mark, and had brought it, to save me a licking.
               I could go on at some length about many little things that happened at school, with Miss Sally and me, but I have so many "love-scrapes" to describe that I must be as short as I can, or this sort of business would be wearing out your patience before I wish it.
               I found out that the old school-master's hobby was Halifax and Virginia in general, so I tried to make use of harping on to themes of that kind to keep in with the old man. It all took very well as my mother was known to be a Virginian of the "first family," but I made too much use of a good thing, like every body else, and came near wearing the old man's goodness out.
               Sally and I managed to get a glance at each other occasionally, and the teacher began to notice it. This made Virginia stock sell low and it was finally bid off at a discount.
               Sally moved her place of study from the "haunted oak," to a fine looking old beech tree, which was so situated that the school-master could not see her from the "same old crack;" I went out every day to steal round and talk to her, which I kept up for a week or two, without its being found out.
               One day I was with her, as usual, talking the sweetest, the longest, the best, the most powerful, and most of it, of anything past, gone-by, present, afterwards or future, thinking old Halifax was safe at the school-house; I had made such narcotic influences on Sally that I was laying with my head in her lap, while she looked down in my face, stroked over my hair, and said she wished we were some four years older. At this moment when I was as composed and comfortable as a dead dog in the sunshine with plenty of meat around him, who should step up but the school-master with a long limb of a hickory, and grabbed me before I had time to get up.
               As he laid hands on me, he told Sally to go to the school-house, and then the way the "premature wife hunter" felt the influence of a well seasoned limb, was alarming to dry bones. "I'll Halifax you, my lad, you are learning those hard lessons in a difficult manner, and now you—whack, whack, whack—will take the hint, not to disobey orders again."
               He distributed the love streaks over my back in the most charming manner, and I could have showed them to my father that night when I went home, but I did not want to.
               He laid it on to me until he got tired, and then he quit, raised me up, and told me to go and stay in the house. As might be expected by the young, and hoped for by the old, Sally and I did not have an opportunity of seeing each other out in the grove again soon. The affair leaked out among the scholars, and they run me to death three times about it, but I came to again.
               It was very nearly as bad on Sally, poor innocent creature, and the consequence was that she and I did not continue at school very long—at least we quit going to "Buckeye Academy." This threw us out of each other's society, and of all the oblong, diagonally, digastrical wretches that ever stood in shoe leather, I was undoubtedly the greatest, what there was of me; I was young, but mighty willing. The evening that I quit school, I went home, swallowed the Life of General Jackson, killed a turkey gobbler, wrote a love-letter, and hung myself to a bed-post.
               Saturday night came and then Sunday morning was not far off, and when it did come along I thought I would go to church, instead of going a fishing as I had been accustomed to do; the fish were not worth catching any way though, for it was nearly the middle of "dog days." I thought if there was a dog that felt any worse than me he ought to run mad, for I felt like it myself.
               There was a little sorrel pony that I was accustomed to riding, which my father had given me, and on Sunday morning, before breakfast, I got him up and fed him. I was a little over four-thirds mad any way, and to have things made easy, or have a final break up, I determined to go to Sally's father's get down, walk in, and ask if she was at home. It was a desperate undertaking for a boy of fifteen, but thought I could stand it. What else could I do, when the lumps of love kept striking me in the side, thump, thump, thump, and had already knocked out two of my "eve's," or they call them ribs, I believe, now-a-days; the sole of my shoes were all warped and twisted, and my teeth were fairly getting black.
               I went and stole one of my brother's saddles, took my sister's big red bandanner handkercher, rubbed some caster oil on my head, jumped on my pony, and away I went. The distance was some two miles, and I was not long in going it. I rode up to the gate, hitched my pony, went in and asked if Sally was going to meeting. Her father stepped out, asked how all my father's folks were, and said Sally was going in about an hour, asked me to sit down, went off about his own affairs, and looked like he thought my love affair would turn out a premature effort.
               I left my pony standing at the gate, and never once thought of him, until I had been there nearly half an hour, when I heard him neigh a time or two, just like he intended to break loose and go home. I bounced up, ran to the door to see what was the matter, and as I flashed my eye out, I saw my brother, who had missed his saddle, and had followed me to get it; he had come up to the gate, took off the saddle that was on my pony, put it on his own horse, mounted, and was streaking it for home.
               My pony did not like to be left alone, so he rared up a few times, took a set on the bridle reins, broke them all into square smashes, hoisted his tail, and as I got to the door, I saw him raising the dust along the road at the rate of a mile a minute, following my brother, who was going home as fast as the old grey mare would take him, to fix up, as he was going to the Methodist camp-meeting that day with Peggy Ripdoodle.
               When I saw the pony going off, I knew the cake was all dough with me, and not knowing what else to do (I was awful mad) I gathered a meat axe and took after Mr. Ball's brindle cow that was in the yard, and I suppose I run her round there fifteen times in fifteen minutes, and would have kept at it till now, perhaps, but the old negro woman, Cherry, saw me and threw the grubbing hoe at me, which made me stop. I was completely deranged, and looked like the biggest fool in the country, and they said that I did not deceive my looks.
               Considering everything, this was a pretty rough adventure for a youth of my age. I went and gathered the fragments of my bridle, and struck off through the woods for a near cut to catch my pony, leaving my hat at the house of Mr. Ball. It was so hot in the sunshine, that you could have roasted a ham of meat almost, but still I was for overtaking my pony, and rushed ahead.
               In the course of an hour or two, I had got my pony again, and went on back to go to church with Sally. I had no saddle, so I borrowed a bed quilt of one of the negroes, folded it up, fastened it on with a hemp rope, and made the best-looking thing of it I could, When I got back, Mr. Ball, Sally, and all the rest of the family, including old Cherry, the negro woman, had gone to meeting, and left me. My hat was locked up in the house, or else I would have followed on, but I knew it would not have looked well to go to meeting bareheaded, for if I had, and my father had heard of it, the way he would have lashed me with willow limbs would have been far from what people call desirable.
               I then toddled off home with prospects not any too flattering, hoping things would be better next time. I was compelled to have my hat, or get a licking next morning, and went back that afternoon, about four or five o'clock, to get it. There was a whole chance of folks who had come home with Mr. Ball to dinner, and now didn't I feel some of the shamedest? going up after my hat, with nothing on my head but the red bandanner handkercher tied around it to keep out the hot sun.
               As soon as I rode up, Mr. Ball and all the crowd commenced laughing like a windmill, and Miss Sally seemed ashamed of me, for she ran off and hid herself, and I did not get to say the first word to her. I made out to get my hat and left the diggins.
               This spree completely cooled me off, for three or four days, but when Sunday came again I felt like trying the game over. I went late in the afternoon, about five o'clock, hoping to find the folks at home, and that they would not have any company. My expectations were fully realised in that respect, but now for the rest of the story.
               Mr. Ball saw what I was up to, and concluded, very rationally, to put a stop to the way children were doing. Says he to me: "Fudge, does your father allow you to go about by yourself?" I could not say a word, and he then went on: "Well, my boy, you are very clever, but I think you and Sally a little too young to be courting, so you had better go home and tell your father that I do not wish you to come and see Sally any more."
               I was as completely shot as if he had thrown the whole of South America at me, and walked out to my pony, fastened on the bed quilt, and went on home in a snail trot. Soon after that, he sent his daughter Sally to a school some fifteen miles from there, and that was the end of my first love scrape. It was not very remarkable for anything only the audacity of a youth of fifteen becoming suddenly so old as to make love to a young girl of the age of Miss Sally, in open daylight, riding a small pony and a stolen saddle. But now, dear good folks, look forward, this has been a mere introductory sketch, and if you don't say, before you hear all, that I have had some hard times with the female part of animal creation, then tell me there is no such a thing as "popping the question."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               A COMING APPETITE AND COLD BISCUITS.
               WE find Fumble still at home, having learned some serious lessons, and is resolved to stay with his relatives. We trust you may find that he enjoyed the "sweets of home," more than his past wanderings among strangers, but you must be your own judge while he relates his second adventure with the girls, as he then called them:
               After making such a splendid failure with my "first love affair," I did not feel much like diving into the mysteries of love again for some time. My parents heard of my singular experiment, and were glad that it had turned out as it did, for they thought I was commencing rather early to make it profitable.
               They started me to school again, giving instructions to the teacher to watch me, and not permit me to go among the girls. This was all very well, but there were other times and many ways of making love to the girls, besides doing so at school, if I had been disposed to do so. I did not, however, make any attempt to go with a girl for several months after meeting with the misfortunes related in my first attempt. It is said that time and peculiar circumstances will cause us to forget many of the ills and hills of life, which I think is a reasonable saying, for after the lapse of a few months I forget I ever had met with misfortunes of any kind, and began to look around to see who was the prettiest girl in the country, and it does not take long to find some one that is pretty, if we are trying to do so; every one we meet will be good-looking, and one in particular is certain to possess some trait of character, a pretty nose, a sweet mouth, a dear little chin, beautiful curly hair, nice plump little arms, a round face, or something else that will attract the eye and victimize the heart of man.
               In the neighborhood of my father's, there lived, at that time, a man by the name of Olwin, who had a daughter named Mary, a beautiful little creature; she was about fourteen years old—nice age to marry, with black hair, round face, rather chunkey-built, and a peculiar nose, reminding me now of an inverted peach pecling, but which, at that time, I thought was strikingly lovely and delitescent. Well, I met with her at a camp-meeting, and the first sight I got of her, my gizzard and stomach became convulsed and tore away part of the rigging of my left shoulder. I sucked in fresh air, rubbed my hands together, took out my pocket knife, and tried to swallow her likeness, taken on a piece of my imagination.
               She looked at me, raised her upper lip, smelt of her pocket handkerchief, threw off one of her shoes, dropped her parasol, raised her bonnet, run her hand across where her heart staid, tried to whistle, and said: "Oh, how do you do, sir?"
               We sat down on a bench near one of the tents to have a little talk. I believe candidly that she was as willing as I was, and says she: "How old are you?"
               "I will be sixteen when I get a little older than I am now; I think I am nearly grown, don't you?"
               "Oh, yes! and ma says she never saw any girl grow like I do in her life." "You will be old enough to marry after awhile, I think; what does your ma say about that—anything?"
               "Oh! how you do talk, just like we had been acquainted two or three years. Ma says I have to stay with her till I am twenty, for girls never pay for their raising no how."
               "Ah! that's what dad says to me, only he says the boys never pay for their raising; I tell you, the truth is the old folks talk a heap of their children never paying for their raising, that they must not marry too young, and all such things as that, and at the same time, if the children meet with a good chance, they are always willing for them to marry."
               "La, me, why yes, ma told me she was only fifteen when she was married. I wonder why it is, they don't want the children that is growing up now to marry young? I think young folks ought to marry when they can find one they love."
               The conversation would have continued much longer, no doubt, but at this moment a song was heard at the altar, under the shelter, announcing to the good people in attendance that they must assemble. I felt very sorry that we had to break up so soon, but knew it would not do to stay there talking while services were going on.
               We both got up at the same time to go out to the shed where service was held; she looked at me and I looked at her; she seemed to think "will he gowith me," and I was thinking, "must I go with her," and off we started together, and not the bit did I ask her if I might go with her.
               As we passed along I heard Dick Smith say, "go it, Fudge, you'll be a man when you get grown; if ole Johnny sees you with his daughter Mary, you'll catch it though with that big wagon whip of his, if you don't I'm mistaken. I knew Dick was a great gump, as a general thing, but I feared there was too much truth in his remarks about ole Johnny using the wagon whip. I had heard that Dick went to ole Johnny's for a short time, and that was the remedy Johnny administered to him, saying at the same time, that "he would not have boys running to see his daughter before they were half grown."
               In counting up the matter, I found I was included in the class of "half-grown up-starts," and if I got to visiting ole Johnny's house too often, he would get after me.
               I concluded that he would not trouble me during the meeting, and intended to become better acquainted with his daughter before that good time in camp broke up. Night came on, and I availed myself of the first opportunity of talking to her again.
               We met at the same old bench, and took a seat in the dark, while the good people were carrying on the good work of religion at the altar. It would be useless for me to attempt giving even an extract of that night's talk, but matrimony was the principal topic of conversation. I did not think that I would dare to "pop the question" on so short an acquaintance, but I thought very hard what should be the plan of proceeding in the event of such a thing being the case. I could not have time to think long at once before being interrupted by the conversation that she kept up.
               She could out talk me all to pieces, even when I did my best, and I can tell you I was not considered slow in the way of flat mouth locomotion, by any means. We sat there and talked for more than two hours before I ventured to take hold of her hand, though when we struck upon something a little laughable, I would slap her on the shoulder—accidentally. At last, I ventured to take hold of her dainty little hand, and as she did not object in any way, I s-qu-ee-z-ed it, softly.
               It made my heart jump and beat very hard, but I s-qu-ee-z-ed it once more, and then I heard her draw a l-o-ng breath. She did not say anything, and so I laid my arm around the upper part of the spinal column, in the region of the cervical vertebræ, generally called the neck.
               "Oh, aint you ashamed!" says she, and at the same time leaned over towards me like she had fell. "What for!" says I "nothing like being friendly, and you know very well the old folks can't see us." We were as well situated then, and better, if any difference, to talk, than we were before, for we did not have to talk so loud. It is an extremely unpleasant position to be placed in with a great fat, chubby gal leaning on a fellow, and he compelled to bear it, and no chance of resting; but still, as it was the first time, I thought I would try and put up with it.
               I asked her if "ole Johnny" would have any objections to boys coming to see his daughter. She said she expected he would not like it much, and if I come to see her, she wanted me to make it a rule never to have my horse put up and fed, and that I must not eat dinner at their house any time; if I pursued that plan, she thought Johnny and I might get along without any trouble. That was the reason he gave Dick Smith such a chase. Dick would have his horse put up and fed, and Johnny did not like that way of squandering horse feed.
               The services were very near closed, and the old cook was coming into the tent to fix a little coffee for the friends before they went to bed, and she had to pass close to where we were sitting. She came puffing and blowing along till she came near us, and,
               "Get out o'here, you dogs you, why warn't you out yonder doing some good for yourselves? you niggers, your master ought to keep you home."
               "Hold on, Aunt Sooky, you are mistaken, its not the niggers, and"—
               "Oh, God help me, massa, I thought it wer ole George and Dinah, courtin,' don't say"—
               Never mind, Aunt Sooky, go on and fix the coffee."
               I had no notion of having her stopping there talking, some one might hear her; she talked very loud always, Sooky did. We had to do the rest of our talking in a hurry, and to make short work of it.
               I told Miss Mary what time I would come to see her at her father's. I did not know how to get away, hardly; I felt like staying there all night; but I stooped my head a little—it came in contact with something which turned out to be the face of Mary.
               "What made you do that, says she?"
               "Oh! I could'n t help it: you won't get mad about it, will you? If you are, I will give it back to you," and as I said so, I put the kiss where I took it from, and then she was in good humor again. We then said good night, and each of us took different directions, taking particular pains to avoid coming in contact with Aunt Sookey, for she did not know who we were when she attacked us in the dark, and we desired that she should remain as ignorant as ever on the subject.
               It so happened that I did not have a chance of talking with Mary any more during the meeting, but I felt very comfortable, hoping to see her at the time appointed, at her father's.
               It was only a week after the close of the camp-meeting that I was to give her a call, but candidly it seemed almost as far off as judgment day. I went over at the appointed time, and found her as glad to see me as ever. Ole Johnny was at home, and so was his wife; they treated me with all the respect that I could have counted on, but still they eyed me in rather that slunchendikular manner that went to say, "my little rooster, you are trying to crow before you are feathered; I think your mammy ought to send some one with you when you go from home; it's dangerous for you to be out so."
               I went to see her again in a few days, and found the old folks at home, as on the first occasion. Johnny saw my visits were likely to become frequent, and began to frown and make ugly faces, worse than if "old Celim," his favorite leader in the wagon, had been "hip-shod."
               Seeing the cloud gathering in the distance, I talked a little fast to Mary, took a drink of water, looked over into the corn fields, picked my teeth as if I had been to dinner, (but I had'nt,) stepped across the floor a few times, knocked over the piggin of water, skinned my shins, got on my horse, and left them all to think what they pleased.
               I concluded to act differently in this case from what I had in my first courtship. I went home and told one of my sisters about how ole Johnny did, and asked her advice on the subject. She was a little "spunky," as well as the rest of the family, and did not want to see her brother beat off the track. She asked me if I ever got anything to eat when I went to see Mary. I told her that I did not, and that I sometimes got so hungry, I felt like I could eat a mule, hair and all.
               To get me out of this scrape, she told me the next time I started to let her know and she would give me a "few directions," to enable me to get along.
               Accordingly, a few days after I went to her and told her I was "going over." She gave me one or two good nice biscuits, and told me when I got hungry I must make an excuse to go out, and then I could eat one of them. I told her I did not know whether I could make an excuse or not. "Oh, brother, you can just step across the floor a time or two, and say, 'this is a pretty moon-shiny night,' or that it is going to 'cloud up,' its very warm—something in that way."
               I thought I could follow instructions, and went on to see Mary. "Is the old folks ever from home?" says I to her, as I went in and saw Johnny and his wife walking round, looking at the pigs, chickens, turkeys, bees, and other fine stock. It was now between five and six o'clock in the afternoon, a short time before night, between midnight and midday; as I was supplied with something for supper, I intended to tire Johnny out, if possible, and drive him to bed that night, so that I could talk to Mary as much as I wanted to.
               Dark came on, and though I could hear the dishes rattling around, the old cook scolding, and though I could smell the "fried ham," (it makes my mouth water thinking of it,) there was no such thing as calling us to supper that night.
               I could hear Johnny thinking, "Never mind, my lad, I'll starve you out, and them perhaps, you will stay at home after this." Then I thought, "never you mind, Johnny, I've got a couple of the fattest looking biscuits in these regions, made of good flour; I took the wheat to mill myself, and after awhile I'll be diving into them. I think you had better fix and go to bed, if you are going to drive that big wagon to-morrow."
               His thoughts and mine did not keep me from getting hungry, though, and after dark a short time, I thought I would make my "excuse" to step out for a few minutes, so that I could eat my biscuit. I studied for some time how to "get at it," but a keen appetite has no conscience, and I blazed away. Says I, "ha—ya—he—oh, (yawning), it is a very nice time; I think it will cloud up and frost, to-night. Now I'll step out and eat my biscuit."
               This was spoken in quite an audible tone, which shocked Mary's nerves to the very centre, for she had not taken any supper either. But I stepped out, and soon made way with the biscuits anyhow, and returned like nothing had happened. Mary took advantage of my temporary absence, and put off into the house; when I got back I saw her coming out of the house, and if that gal didn't have a great shank of meat in one hand and a piece of corn bread in the other, then say that Fumble never told you the truth in all his life. She was a gal of the right grit, and when she heard of me going out to eat my biscuit; she could not stand it any longer, but went to get something for me to eat, and—herself too. She was sensible, she was.
               
               After eating we commenced talking again. Mary told me that her parents were bitterly opposed to my coming to see her, and that if I came again, it must be when they were absent; telling me at the same time that they were both going to be from home on the next Thursday night. I told her that I would come at that time. Johnny and his wife got to talking very loud about nine o'clock, and during the course of their conversation, I heard them say something of "that boy coming to see Mary," so concluding my self the subject of conversation, I told Mary good-bye, and was off from there.
               Thursday night arrived, but such a night! It was quite an inauspicious time for a meeting of lovers. A little before sunset, there arose a great black cloud in the west, which threatened a storm; I expected I would not be able to go, and if not, when or how should I see Mary again? I almost complained of the dispensations of Providence itself, but about dark the clouds broke away, and after a gentle shower, a beautiful crimson sky was seen once more.
               After making an excuse to my parents that I was going to see an uncle living a short distance off, I mounted my horse, and rode swiftly away. Believing that Mary would prefer me to leave my horse a short distance from the house, I took the precaution to hitch him out in the woods, which was a good notion, as his tracks could have been seen at the rack, owing to the rain which had recently fallen and made everything very wet.
               The place where I hitched my horse was on the slant of a hill, in a thick grove of beech trees, some four or five hundred yards from the house. I walked up cautiously and listened to see if Johnny and the old woman had gone from home. I could hear nothing of their limber jaws, and as I could see Mary come out every once in two whiles into the piazza, and look all around as if she was wishing to see me, I went in.
               I found things all to my liking and I intended to make use of the time now that her parents were away. Mary had been looking for me, as I could see by the way things were fixed; she had put two chairs out in the piazza, closed the window shutters, and left a candle burning inside of the room. I wished to show her what an interest I took in her welfare, and told her that as it had just been raining and everything was so damp, I thought it would be the best for us to go into the house. The proposition was acceeded to, and she considered it wise in me to think of such things.
               I told her that if I had a wife I would take great care of her, be kind, good-natured, and would never go from home without taking her with me; if she got unwell any time I would milk the cows, make up the bed, wash the dishes, sweep out the house, and do all them sort o' little things. She laughed with a rip and said "she thought I would be the best husband in the world; if she ever married and her husband got sick she would feed the horses, hogs, sheep and cattle; do the best she could every way; and wouldn't I kiss him, if that would do any good?"
               I went to the door for a drink of water, and as I come back I got to fooling with the candle—"puh," and out it went, leaving us in the dark. "What made you do that?" ses she. "Oh, its no use wasting candles for us to talk by," ses I, and that was all I heard about it.
               We hunted up some chairs, sat down, commenced talking, and get out of the way old Dan Simpson, but didn't we have a nice time of it! I told Mary how much I loved her, puffed, blowed, got red and hot about the face, tried to spit but couldn't, my mouth was so dry, and there I sat close to her. She said she "loved me to kill," trembled like she had an ague, swallowed a work box and two pair of gloves, and there she sat close to me.
               Time goes away with a rush when lovers are in each others arms, and that was just our fix that night, so we did not notice what time it was until "whop" went ole Johnny's foot on the piazza floor outside, and—"what made Mary go to bed and leave the doors open this way, I wonder?" says he. I felt like I had taken supper off of lightning rods and aqua-fortis, and up bounced Mary and I. The first thing I thought of was to run out the back door, but it was fastened and in the dark I knew I could not find the latch, so there I was in a "small scrape."
               Thinks I, "now for Johnny's wagon whip and Fumble coming together, and, my stars, but won't he warp me, good fashion!" Mary was an immense smart gal, or she could have never been so quick-thoughted—"Run here and I will put you into the closet; and then I will lay down on ma's bed and make them think I was asleep," ses she. It was all the chance, and in she put me; then she went to her mother's bed, jumped in, and began to snore like she was fast asleep.
               Johnny and his wife came in and heard Mary snoring; they went to the bed, waked her up, and asked her what made her lie down that way and leave the doors open, when she knew there were so many rogues in the neighborhood? She told them that she lay down, fell asleep, and forgot the doors.
               Mary then took the candle and went to light it.—When the light came, the old folks looked around and did not seem to notice anything wrong, but I was wishing my carcass away from there in right flat down good hard earnest, I can tell you. They had not been sitting there long until they heard something—"whe, whe—mew, mew!" "What's that?" says ole Johnny. No one could tell; but the simple and lamentable truth was, that I had taken cold some few days previous, and was troubled with a cough. I tried my hardest to keep from coughing, but it was impossible. I kept my hand over my mouth, and held on the best I could; when I had to cough, I followed it up with a "mew," so as to make them think it was a cat.
               My cough got worse, fastened up in that small place as I was, and the cat kept "mewing," and it made a very peculiar noise. The old woman, who was wiser than the rest, spoke up and said:
               "Yes, I know, there is 'old Tom' down in the cellar, choked on a bone again. I believe that cat will kill himself; come Johnny, bring the light, and help me to get him out; he must be nearly dead."
               Thus saying, she and Johnny started out through the piazza to relieve the "poor cat;" as they passed out the door, Mary ran to the closet to let me out.—She had just opened the closet door, and said to me, "Now's your time, Fudge;" when I heard ole Johnny bawl out, like a small clap of thunder, and say, "Who's hat is this out here, Mary?" There was no time to be lost, for I then recollected that I had left my hat out in the piazza; I rolled out of the closet and made for the opposite door, knocking down two or three chairs, a bureau, and one or two tables, as I went. The noise brought Johnny to my relief, and as the light came in, I was within a step or two of the door; I bounced out as quick as I could, but like poor "Lot," I could not avoid "looking behind me," thus giving Johnny a good view of my features, which, I suppose, were a little more drawn up than common.
               "Here's the cat, here's the cat," said Johnny to his wife, at the same time jerking down the "big whip," and making for me as fast as his legs could bring him."
               
               "Now for it," thought I, and left a black streak and Johnny a short distance behind me. It was, as near as I could guess, between nine and ten o'clock, and it was mighty dark; I looked behind me every few jumps to see what progress Johnny was making; he was gaining on me, I could see that, for the old woman brought the candle to the door to "light our path" and he had the advantage, as the light shone on my back all the time.
               I was going a little more than twice as fast as a run-away negro through a cotton field, but Johnny was just "humping himself," making the whip go "che-row," "che-row," a few steps behind me, every jump, saying "stop, sir! stop, sir! or I'll give you the longest chase you've ever had yet." Things run a little in my favor at this moment—a gust of wind blew out the candle, or Mary did it, I don't know which; it was well it did, too, for the yard fence was yet to climb, and there I thought Johnny would have me.
               As I run along, I caught a glimpse of something as black, from all appearance, as the night itself, which I barely missed running over, and what I concluded, by the smell, was the negro woman, returning from the orchard with a basket of peaches on her head. As I passed I heard her say "who dat?" but she hardly had time to take the second breath after it before ole Johnny took her "co-bim" in the face, knocking the peaches to the twenty points of the compass, and upsetting himself and the old negro, both.
               While Johnny and the negro woman were recovering the erect posture, and their senses, and while the old negro in particular, was clearing out her throat in the way of squealing equal to a steam engine, I run to the fence, knocked down a few pannels, and over I went. I struck my course for the woods where I had hitched my horse, and that is the last I saw of ole Johnny that night.
               I went on to the place where I had hitched my horse, but the horse wasn't there; here I was in a fix again, four miles from home and scared almost out of my senses; my horse gone, and of course I had to foot it. I sat down on a log for a short time to rest, and while there I discovered what had caused my horse to break loose. Something came buzzing round my ears, and before I had time to get out of the way, "sting" he popped me. I found I was in a foul crowd—amongst a nest of "bumble bees," so I left there in a hurry. I had accidentally hitched my horse near their nest, and when he got to kicking and stamping, he roused them.
               After resting a short time, I started from there, and made out to get home. The horse had gone back with the saddle on; the family had become alarmed for my safety, and more than twenty persons were on the hunt of me, expecting I had been killed. The whole neighborhood was in a ferment; horns were blowing, bugles were sounding, guns were firing, cows lowing, chickens crowing, sheep bleating, and the negroes thought judgment was coming. My sudden and unexpected appearance put an end to the whole affair, however, and my father asked me where I had been. I made the best excuse I could think of at the time, the crowd broke up, and all hands went to bed. I never saw Johnny or Mary any more, for a few days after that I went on a trip some three or four hundred miles off, which entirely changed my course in life, of which you shall hear more should you favor me with your attention.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               ABSENT-MINDED MEDITATIONS.
               WHEN we parted in the last chapter you must have observed that Fumble was feeling considerably "used up," owing to the chasing he got by his hoped-for father-in-law, and you might be disposed posed to think this was all of importance, connected with that love affair, but I afterwards heard Fudge giving a slight history of Mary Olwin's second cousin, and as I took down some notes of the case at the time, and everything in connection with the matter being very fresh in my mind, I am tempted to give it to you in this place. This young and interesting chap of whom Fumble will tell you in a few moments, being a relative of Mary's, of course Fumble had a good chance to hear all about him.
               As it may require some stretch of your imagination and an elongation of your credulity to fully appreciate the new character to be introduced to your notice, allow me to say you must attribute everything to Fudge Fumble, he is responsible for the authenticity of the subject and will doubtless feel pleased at any time to satisfy you that what he says can be substantiated.
               In regard to the scenery which he describes, I can join with him, and say he has not exaggerated by any means, for it is almost impossible to convey an idea of its beauty and grandeur. But Fumble is coming, and we must give way:
               Fortunately for mankind, the world has never produced many such beings as the one who is to be spoken of on the present occasion; undoubtedly, he will be hailed as the first wonder of the age, and though he may never hear of it I beg that you will not laugh at the misfortunes and accidents that have beset him in this life, for even "if fun for you, it was almost death for him." But casting him on your tender sympathies, I must ask your indulgence if I do not directly introduce to you the character in question in his most interesting features.
               In the year 1810, there lived near the city of Nashville, in the State of Tennessee, a farmer by the name of Morrison; he had emigrated at an early day to the wilderness, taking with him the partner of his bosom and four children; two girls and two boys; he had purchased land and built thereon comfortable fortable dwellings, which were in full view of that most beautiful stream, the Cumberland river, on whose banks the city then stood, and yet stands, above spoken of, which is now the capital of the State. The Cumberland river, though spoken of but little, is certainly one of the most beautiful rivers in America; the scenery along its banks is picturesque, sublime and romantic; the traveller who first views the river border and surrounding country is made to exclaim that "it is the Italy of America," and a more appropriate name, I think myself could not be given.
               It was here that Mr. Morrison reared his family, and at the time alluded to all of his children were grown, and all married except the youngest, a son about twenty years of age; he had ever been an object of the tenderest care and affection of his parents, from the fact that he was the youngest, and evinced much greater mental abilities than the others; he was very obedient to his parents, ever being ready and willing to deprive himself of pleasure, and even comfort, for the sake of making them happy and contented; this had been his character from childhood, which was not forgotten by those who had the care of him, and he never had to regret his conduct in after years.
               Mr. Morrison was now in comfortable circumstances and decided on expending a little money on his son in giving him as good an education as he could obtain in a country so recently settled. For this purpose he sent him to the best school he could find in Nashville, where he had been going for more than twelve months, and made such progress that the father and mother had every reason to be proud of such a son.
               James (the young man) had been in the habit of leaving the school every Saturday, and spending his time with his parents until the following Monday, knowing they would be happy to see and converse with him, which afforded him pleasure unspeak able, as he told them the gradual improvements he was making, thereby causing them to feel satisfied that they were spending their money in a judicious and profitable manner. He had not failed a single time in twelve months to pay his accustomed visit, and was always lively, talkative, cheerful and happy; his parents were rendered equally so by his conduct, and thus everything went on well.
               One Saturday night at length came, and James's seat was vacant; he was not one of those that formed the family circle; his voice was not heard in their midst, and consequently sadness and silence reigned, for there were many fears that the young man was sick, or some accident had happened which could make him remain in the city, knowing his parents would be quite distressed. The miseries of that night were at length ended, and bright Sunday morning broke upon the cliffs of the Cumberland, beaming with all the effulgence of an autumn sun, but still this did not bring happiness to the hearts of Mr. and Mrs. Morrison, for the object of their affections was absent.
               Before the sun had made its appearance a messenger was despatched to town to learn something of James Morrison. His parents waited anxiously the return of the messenger; scarce a moment could they keep within doors, but would cast a wishful eye towards the place where they thought he was, hoping to see some one approach who could give them any information of their son. The hour of ten, eleven, and twelve o'clock was past, and still no tidings came; they were growing almost frantic with excitement; the mother had become exhausted and laid down, while the father still walked across the yard, to and from the gate, up and down the road, and in every direction, in the greatest agony.
               A few minutes before one o'clock two persons were seen coming up the road on horseback, and, amid the confusion, excitement, and fears of the parents, who should ride up but their son James, in company with the messenger; and now for the cause of all this: No sooner had the young man alighted from his horse than a score of questions were asked him before he had time to answer a single one. After finding out that he had not been hurt in any way, or been in any particular danger, they became more quiet, but yet they were anxious to know what had made him stay away without apprizing them of his intention of doing so.
               He seemed desirous of telling them, but was too much confused to do so; after a little time had elapsed he told them that he did not know himself that he would stay away until late in the day of Saturday, when he received an invitation to attend a party at a friend's house, and not knowing that they would be so uneasy, he staid for the purpose of attending the party. This party was composed of himself and one more. Thus everything passed off without any more trouble that day. Next morning he returned to school as usual, and the parents were again happy. It was not long, however, until James failed to come out on Saturday again, but it did not trouble his parents as it had done on the first occasion. Before many weeks had passed, he had failed three times to pay his usual visits, and now it was that some uneasiness took hold of the hearts of his parents again, for they feared their son was being led off into habits of dissipation; they resolved to talk to him on the subject, and if he did not give a satisfactory explanation, they intended to take him from school.
               The next visit he paid them they commenced a conversation with him, and gave him to understand that they were apprehensive of bad conduct on his part, and desired him to give his reasons for absenting himself from those who had such a tender affection for him, and were doing all in their power to make him happy. The merest allusion to such a thing was sufficient for young James, than whom a more dutiful son was never seen, and was ready to serve his parents when they wished it. As soon as the allusion was made by the father, the young man's frame was seen to commence trembling, his countenance became dejected, and every feature was cold and pale, as the tear was seen to steal down his cheek, but not a word did he speak, for he was choked with the rising emotions to which he could not give utterance.
               His parents saw innocence marked in his every action, and could no longer think of wounding their child's feelings, but fell upon his neck and asked his forgiveness, if they had done him wrong.
               "No, my dear father and mother," he replied, "it is I that have to ask forgiveness, for I have done wrong; I should have asked your advice before proceeding so far with that which is to either make me happy or miserable for life."
               "Oh, James! do tell us what you have done, that we may yet rescue you from danger, if possible."
               "Well, I will: The cause of my absenting myself from you, is not owing to an indulgence in habits of dissipation, but something in which I know you will be deeply interested as well as myself. During my journ in town I have become acquainted with a young lady of the highest respectability, with whom I have associated occasionally; the result is a mutual feeling of affection has sprung up between us, and we are engaged to be married, if our parents are willing; I beg you not to render us unhappy by objecting to the match, unless you have some good cause."
               He was informed that the case would be inquired into, and if she was found worthy, there would be no objections; and after a short time everything had been ascertained to be right, and they gave their consent. In the course of a few months, young James Morrison was married to the lady of his choice, and they were settled on a farm, a few miles from his father's, where they enjoyed all the happiness that mortals could wish for.
               At the end of twelve months after their union they were blessed with an heir, a bright and promising child indeed he was, too, and, as might be expected, the young couple felt quite proud of him. It will be borne in mind that this was about the time the great American hero, "Old Hickory," was giving the British gunpowder-tea in real "Yankee style," and as a compliment to the old general, the little boy was named "Andrew Jackson," which, added to his other name inherited from his parents, made him "Andrew Jackson Morrison," who is to be the principal character spoken of; but instead of making such a lengthy name, I will do as the neighbors did, as the child grew up, I will call him, for convenience, "Jack Morrison," who gained for himself in his day, a reputation that will live when you and I are long since forgotten. Whether this reputation is such a one as you or I might fancy, does not matter for our present purpose.
               Well, as I said before, this young Mr. Jack Morrison, son of James Morrison and his wife, was a boy, and for that reason it will be admitted that he was not a daughter. He was as fine a child, I suppose, as you ever laid eyes on, and it was generally predicted that if he lived he would be a great man some day in the history of this nation; as there was no good reason for disputing on the subject, it was set down for a fact. He had an exceedingly large head, dark hazel eyes, prominent forehead, Roman nose, and a countenance worthy of beholding on any occasion. There was one thing remarkable about the child, and I wish you to bear it in mind, for it is not probable you ever heard the like before, and I think you never will again. What I allude to is, that he never was known to cry a moment! no, not a whimper during the whole course of his infantile life.
               Something else equally remarkable, nearly, was, that he never had a moment's sickness; or if he had he did not make it known to any one; another thing might be alluded to here also, he never was known to sleep a wink in day-time, but would lie quiet, calm, and composed as a man in deep study. Your attention is called to these points at the out-set that you may form your own conclusion at the end, and account, if you can, for this most wonderful phenomena. Although these peculiarities cannot be set down as instances of absence of mind, yet they furnish a starting point, both for me and those who may hereafter think fit to examine into the case more minutely and philosophically, than perhaps they may think I have done.
               With these few introductory remarks then, I commence a short history, and an account of the extraordinary adventures of one of the greatest curiosities known in any age of the world, which might long since have been given, but for reasons which will hereafter be made known, when they will be more interesting to those who pursue "Jack" through the many meanderings, and rugged paths which he has travelled; and we sincerely hope that you may not be subjected to as many dangers, and trials, as the one you read of.
               Nothwithstanding Jack acted rather strangely for a boy thought to be unusually promising, still no particular notice was taken of him till he was six years old. At this age he was observed very often sitting perfectly motionless in his little arm-chair, apparently thinking of something of very great importance; if he had been an old man he could not have seemed more thoughtful, and it may well be supposed that many persons thought he was destined to be one of the first men of the day. This impression might have remained in the minds of those who saw him and made remarks about him, had it not been that occasionally when he was in this thinking mood, it was almost impossible to arouse him without taking hold of him! Speaking loud to him seemed to do no good, but he roused up immediately if any person touched him.
               When this was first noticed it gave his parents no little uneasiness, but as the child became as cheerful and playful as ever, after being roused up, they did not think much more of it. The first time this absent-mindedness showed itself on him to any considerable degree, the mother became greatly alarmed. One day he was standing near a bucket of water, and, as usual, helped himself to a drink; there was nothing particularly strange in this, but then he did something more, he did not stop when he had taken a glass full or two, but there he stood looking in a different direction from that of the bucket of water, perfectly unconcerned, and kept drinking away, glass after glass, entirely unconscious of having taken the first drop, until his mother saw him and called to him to quit playing in the water. He never noticed that she was calling him, and as she was called off to attend something else at the time, she left him alone, but on returning a few minutes after, she saw him still at the water bucket trying to drink, but he was scarcely able to raise his hand to his head, owing to the condition his system was in.
               She called him again, louder than before, but he heeded not; she then ran to him, and what was her astonishment to find nearly half of the bucket of water gone, the boy looking carelessly another way, his eyes set on some distant object, in a profuse perspiration, not able to walk a step, and his little stomach swelled out larger than a forty year old English beer-drinker. As soon as his mind was brought to bear on things normal, he became sick and was relieved by copious vomiting, but he did not entirely recover for two or three days, and when he did, he had reason enough about him to keep away from the water bucket, as young as he was, lest he might stop to think too long again.
               The concern and anxiety which Jack's parents had for him after this occurrence, was almost amounting to real distress, when the boy became more lively, acted like a nice little fellow, and once more made his "seniors" feel happy. For more than six months after this he seemed to be like any other boy would be when he was in his proper situation; the overdose of cold water and its consequences had nearly been forgotten, and Jack was boasted of as being the smartest chap in all the surrounding country.
               He was now past his seventh year, "fat and saucy," rosy cheeked, bright eyed, and able to take care of himself in any crowd. His mother left him at the dinner table on one occasion, went out, and did not return for an hour or more; she was no little astonished to find Jack still seated at the table eating as vigorously as if he had not tasted victuals for two days. She told him to get down from the table, that he had eat enough; then going to attend to some other household duties, she left Jack again, not thinking but he would do as she had bid him; but on her return she saw him sitting in the same position consuming food as rapidly as ever. The cold water affair then presented itself to her mind as vividly as ever, and thinking her son might not stop eating without some friendly advice, she gently laid hold of him and told him to desist for a moment, or he might overload his appetite.
               It is scarcely necessary to say that little Jack felt obescent, and give vent to groans of no ordinary dimensions, owing to the crowded condition of his provision room. Fortunately for him, he was relieved in about the same manner as when he drank the water some months previous; in the mean-time the mother was exceedingly grieved, fearing Jack had eat more than he could well digest in one day, and might be troubled a little with "acid stomach!" Be that as it may, it is worthy of remark, that he did not feel much like eating for some days afterwards.
               Whether the interruption of his digestive movements, succeeding his large healthy dinner, had anything to do with relieving his absent mindedness or not, I am not fully prepared to say, but any how he did not meet with any similar misfortunes for many months after. It was decided, after a culinary de bate, that Jack should be sent to school, as he was nearly ten years old. He was very proud of the opportunity, and thought, doubtless, he might have been started at an earlier age, with great propriety. Any how, he started to school, and was put under the care of the schoolmaster, of course, while he was at school; when at home he was considered subject to the will of his "illustrious predecessors," and respected their several commands, when apprised of it in a proper manner.
               He had not been going to school long, before the symptoms of his old failings made their approach once more. During the short time he was there, though, he made rapid strides up the ladder of knowledge, and could excel any boy in school of his age and opportunities. One morning he went into the school-house, hung up his book on a nail, then taking a seat by the teacher, with his hat in his hand, he dipped out the words constituting his lesson, from his hat, and spelt them as correctly as if the book had been before him. The teacher did not understand him and asked what he meant? Jack went to make a bow, but forgot what was going on, and stuck his hand in the masters coat pocket, tried to push his hat down his own throat, and at last sat down on the old fellow's gouty-toe instead of the bench.
               He was in the habit of taking his dinner with him to school in a small tin basket; and among other things he took with him some raw potatoes to roast, it being winter; once when he went to roast them he made a slight mistake, he put his foot into the hot embers, where he gave it a good roasting before he observed the difference; then putting some ashes into the tin basket, he eat the potatoes without cooking them. Shortly after this he lost his presence of mind in quite a signal manner; when he went to eat his dinner he swallowed the schoolmaster's day book and afterwards said his lesson to a piece of cornbread, without knowing which from t'other.
               
               Which of the two was the most digestible or which proved the toughtest master does not appear to be known. It must not be thought strange that the parents of this extremely interesting youth, felt some little concerned when they ascertained what a start he was making. Ah! yes, such is a parent's love for these dear little ones that they cannot avoid showing it when any interesting circumstance favors a well-timed display of it. Such was the case with the parents of Jack Morrison; as soon as they heard the liability of the school master to depart at any moment, down some unknown track of human failings, they took Jack home and provided him with closer quarters for his own safety, and that of the neighbors.
               Mr. Morrison was not a man to whip and beat children for every little offense, but rather chose a sound and thorough course of reasoning, believing it to be the best, so his son Jack, was only subjected to this rule of improving the mind by lecturing. Of course Jack acknowledged his faults, and promised to do better in future, but this did not entirely satisfy his father, so he had to abandon the idea of school for a while. Sunday coming on in three or four days, his father thought a good ride on horseback might be good for him, and about eight o'clock in the morning he said to Jack, "come my boy, you can go to Church to-day if you will behave yourself; go and wash your face, comb your hair, black up your boots, bring out your pony, and saddle him by the time we are all ready."
               Quick as thought, Jack was dashing from one place to another in a great hurry, and no one took much more notice of him, he seemed to do every thing so well. Now you must bear in mind that Jack had several things told him at once, all of which were alike necessary to be performed, that he might have the pleasure of riding his pony to Church, and that was his grand object—riding the pony, a very natural thing for boys of his age, ah! but Jack was
                     Absented minded Jack going to Church. Page 57.
                  
                   so fond of riding that pony, indeed he was, and I have often thought if the boy had only been let alone a few years, not sent to school but allowed to ride that pony as much as his own inclinations would dictate, he never would have turned out to be what he eventually did, "an absent minded man." Still, I may be mistaken, honestly so though, and I must confess there are strong grounds for believing he had a very considerable tendency that way, naturally.
               Well, Jack had much to think of, and much to do in a short time; combing his hair, blacking his boots, washing his face &c. &c.; mercy, it was quite sufficient to addle a boy who had always been "the most steady and most sensible of his kind," let alone this poor absent minded boy, whose father and mother had great confidence in him, notwithstanding some slight vain-actions in the even "tenor of his ways." However, suffice it to say, that the boy went to work in earnest, hoping to be ready for a ride when ten o'clock came.
               The first thing that he did was to black his face, in as genteel a manner as brush and blacking could lay it on; he then combed his boots till he came near wearing the leather out, give his saddle a good washing with soap and water, threw the saddle on his own back, stuck the bridle-bit into his own mouth, and finally soaking his pocket handkerchief in some cologne water poked it into one of his pony's ears instead of his pocket, he mounted his little horse and was off to meeting faster than a steamboat.
               This broke up the pleasant time anticipated by his parents, so they put out a negro after him and abandoned the notion of Church that day. After being brought back, and quieted, he was told to wash the blacking off his face. He went and poured his hat half full of water, washed himself nicely, and then after wiping his face dry with a brick-bat, he put the wash-board on his head and went off about his business like nothing had happened.
               
               He was thus at various times troubled with his peculiar failing of memory, until he was nearly twenty. Sometimes the symptoms would entirely leave him for months at a time, then he was a perfect dread and perplexity to his parents for several days or perhaps weeks together. I remember many other mishaps of his during his boyhood but have not time to tell them to you here, perhaps I may sometime allude to them again, but I will tell you a little more of him now that he is a "man," perhaps he has improved? When about nineteen years of age he took a great notion into his head of attending a debating society which was holding its meetings every week in the neighborhood. Being admitted a member of that honorable body, he was to make a master speech on a certain occasion, which many thought would beat every thing previously known. He started from home in a rational state of mind, but his old failing overtook him before he reached the place of meeting, and he stopped on the way. Many were disappointed in not hearing him on the important topic under consideration, but thought he must be unavoidably detained and had the matter postponed till next meeting for his special benefit.
               Some half dozen of the members of the society were returning home together, and hearing a strange noise near the road they went out and found Jack making his speech to a herd of cattle that he had met on his way but which in his absent minded mood he thought a large audience of ladies and gents!
               Jack once went to a party; when he went to get a partner for a dance he laid hold of an old arm-chair, went the whole set through, and then kissing what he thought his "sweet heart," he set the chair in a young lady's lap in one corner of the room.
               He has often been known to pour out his coffee into his plate and to cut it in the regular "knife and fork" fashion, while he drank his meat and bread, only to discover his error when the clogging materials lodged in his throat and required one or two big negro's to thump him on the back to relieve him! you may ask the question, could a man like this ever take a fancy to the fair sex? and if so could any lady fancy him, knowing his failings? Yes all this must be admitted as a fact, he took a liking to a lady of no mean appearance, and as it would be, she thought he was the nicest fellow in the world, no danger of scolding and fretting about the things of this life, she knew he never seemed to care how things went so himself and friends were happy.
               This love affair is what proved too much for his constitution. Besides the many attempts which he made to put a bridle bit into his lady love's mouth, thinking it was his pony, he was often seen on his knees before his little pony, making love to the horse in the most endearing manner, and frequently he never knew the difference till he got "kicked." One cold winter's night, believing himself to be a married man, he laid down by the side of a log in the open woods, where he was found next morning so near dead that he never recovered, only so far as to think and say to his friends "he was going to take a sleep," and in this absent minded condition he left off living!"
               Fumble, after telling me about Mary's cousin, said he was not sorry on one account of the love match being booke off in that quarter, for it might "run in the family" and if he had married her, he might wake up some time and find himself "swallowed alive by mistake!"
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               A LOAD OF CHICKENS ON HORSEBACK.
               WE come again to Fumble's courtships, and will allow him to tell his own story, for he can do it better than anybody else:—
               But as I was saying in my last courtship, I left my parents and went off a few hundred miles in a different part of the country. Many, many times, did I think of dear Mary, but thoughts or thinking was all I could then do; this would never bring me back to her, so as I could not see her again, I gave up all such hopes, and endeavored to form new acquaintances, so as to "break the spell." Think of a boy of my age at the time, what must have been my situation, thrown entirely among strangers, and with but little experience to assist me in the way-ward course through life!
               Such was my situation; every face was strange to me, and no favorite old classmate or relative was near to tap me on the shoulder, and say, "go ahead, my boy, there is yet some chance for you." I spent many unhappy moments brooding over the past, but these gradually wore away as I became acquainted. I soon became known to those that were entertaining, pleasant, and agreeable associates, which made me to some extent forget those of former years. Thus it was that I soon became known and reconciled to my fate in my new home, though separated from my parents.
               Being such a dear lover of the ladies, it would reasonably be expected that I would become acquainted with some of them if possible. I was standing one morning in front of a store in the little village, talking to a gentleman (a young man with whom I had become rather intimate), and while we were standing there, a young lady passed, who seemed to be well acquainted with him; she spoke, bowed her head, and passed on.
               She was very pretty, with one or two exceptions—she was very tall and had a correspondingly long thin face—but aside from all this "she was too good to be lost;" had too many winning ways and peculiarities to pass unnoticed by me. I asked the young man if he was intimate with the young lady's family. He said he had known them for a long time, and considered them as fine people as lived in the village.
               That was sufficient for me; I felt a slight rattling under my short ribs that sounded very like unto love, and I could not think of letting such a golden moment pass without improving it. I asked the young man if he would go down some night and give me a "knock down" to the family, and Miss Kate, more especially. He said that he would go any time I might set, and remarked at the same time that he thought I would be pleased with the young lady.
               On the appointed night we went; I was introduced to Mr. and Mrs. Longwood, and also to their daughter Kate. We staid some time, passed a fine evening, and then returned home; when we were leaving, the good woman, Mrs. Longwood, invited us to call and see them again; I, of course, accepted, promising to pay them another visit soon.
               I did not wait long before I fulfilled my promise in visiting the family, and soon I was becoming quite intimate with Miss Kate. Though so very young, I had spunk sufficient to ask her if I could have the pleasure of her company to church on Sunday. It was agreed to, and off we went together. The difference in our heights and general appearance was so very great, that every one at church was looking at us, or rather at me, a boy that would dare go to church with a young woman so much my superior in size and years.
               Miss Kate blushed and looked as if she was ashamed to be seen with me, but still I stuck to her, blazing away all the time as hard as I could, in the way of talking.
               When church was over, I went on home with her; I felt very large as I went on, I can tell you, for it was the boldest step I had ever taken—to go to church with a grown young lady, in open daylight!
               I became a frequent visitor at the house of Mr. Longwood, talked a great deal to Miss Kate, and attended to my own business. She did not seem to favor my calls very much, but her mother thought I was the nicest young man in the country; I suppose things existed thus from the fact that I took more pains to please the old woman than I did the young one. I had made a failure on two occasions, and attributed it as much to want of attention to the parents as anything else; I therefore intended to try a plan I had often heard spoken of; that was to "feed the old cow if you want to catch the calf."
               While I was feeding the old cow, the calf, I suppose, became hungry, and the natural effect of hunger on the animal sytem is to create feelings of excitement; so Miss Kate did not take such a distracting fancy to me as she might otherwise have done.
               Two weeks after the first time that I went to church with her, I happened to be at her father's one night, and asked her if I could go with her to church the next week. She did not consent as readily as she had done on the first occasion, but still agreed that I might go with her.
               I did not go to see her again until the day that I was to go to church with her, hoping she would be a little glad that I had come.
               An hour before church time, I walked down to her father's as much like a grown man as you ever saw any one; I went in, took a seat, and made myself perfectly at home. I took up a book of some sort, turned the leaves over, looked very learned, and wished that the time for going to church would come.
               I sat in the chair until Miss Kate got ready, not knowing that such a misfortune was sticking to me. I had just got a new suit of clothes from the tailor's—I hadn't paid him for them though—and, as I thought, looked as well as most of men. The suit was made of beautiful white linen, such as is generally worn through the summer months.
               As Miss Kate came in, I bounced up—no, I didn't, either, but I tried—and what do you think? I had sat down in a chair that had been recently painted with blue paint, and over that was a coat of varnish! The heat of the sun kept the paint from drying, and when I went to get up, the chair and all came with me. Kate came and assisted me in disengaging myself from the "split-bottom," remarking at the same time that I had taken a wrong chair.
               I was painted ring-streaked, striped, spotted, mottled, and mixed colors all over, much worse than Jacob's cattle or the clown of a Bowery Circus, and as I got loose from the chair, I pulled my coat tail to one side to see if there had been any regular application of the stuff, but it was so jumbled up, crossways, slunchendicular, triangularly splankenic, and decomposedly vermicular, that I could not tell anything about it.
               I said good morning to the sweet miss, walked out of the house, and steered my course for home. As I was going along up the road, there was a number of cows and calves lying in the fence corners, shading themselves; when they saw me they seemed to think I had been killing a beef, raised a cry familiar to every backwoodsman, pawed the ground, shook their heads, and here they come after me. I was too well acquainted with the nature of a cow, not to know what to do; I let myself out, hoping to reach a place of safety before they overhauled me.
               The appearance of this "striped clown," and the unusual uproar of old cows, oxens, and small calves; the high flying dust, the roar of something like distant thunder, and the shaking of the earth, could not fail to attract the attention of all animal creation, both man and beast. Every hog, sheep, horse, dog, and everything else that was not running before me, to get out of the way of approaching danger, was bringing up the rear with the noise peculiar to each.
               A gang of boys who were playing in an adjoining lot, discovered the spectre, so alarmingly curious, and came rushing madly on; and, put us all together, a more tumultuous and strikingly romantic scene was never beheld by human eyes or telescopes.
               
               The noise and confusion did not lessen my danger any, I was aware of that, and kept my limbs in motion, until I jumped into a neighboring yard. The cows became convinced of the error of their smell, turned round and went back while the other brutes scattered to parts at a distance, and the humans of all ages, sexes, and colors, came around me to see what was the matter.
               When my story had been learned, the only sympathy I elicited was a roaring laugh, which lasted some half an hour without intermission.
               I concluded I had better stay at home the rest of the day, as I had taken nearly exercise and excitement enough to last me a month. The coat and pantaloons were a total wreck, but still the tailor charged me the same for them. I went and took them off, replaced them with better ones, swallowed my conscience, soaked my feet in warm water, wished I had not been so unfortunate, cropped off a lock of hair, rubbed my teeth with an inkstand, laid my watch in a bake oven, kicked over my hat and the book case, broke the looking-glass, made a pallet of chairs, gridirons and glass windows, and then went to bed.
               This spree turned out to be the best letter of introduction for me that I ever had; the people throughout the neighborhood heard of me, and I went by the name of "Striped Fumble" for three or four months after.
               I studied for some time whether I should go back to see Miss Kate or not, but eventually came to the conclusion that I would go and see the old woman anyhow; and accordingly, a week or ten days after, I went down one night; they were all glad to see me, and expressed many heartfelt regrets that I had been so unfortunate as to soil my suit of clothes, and deprive myself of the pleasure of going to church. I told them it made no manner of difference but the disappointment I felt very keenly, and the race which I had was not desirable, "but never mind what's past, I'll try to do better in future," said I.
               The old woman (ah, me! but what a kind soul she was) felt more sorry than any of the rest; she said she would be careful in future that there was no chairs of that kind in the way.
               My next adventure was out in the country, a short distance from the village. The old lady had some friends living two or three miles from the village, that she was in the habit of going to see occasionally. Well, as a matter of making things all right again, she invited me to come the next day and go with her and Miss Kate to her friends' to spend the day; she said they had plenty of water melons, apples, peaches, and all kinds of fruits, and insisted that I should go with them.
               I did not have a great deal to do, and consented to do so. Next morning I got my horse, fixed him up, and went down pretty early, before it got too warm;—they were both ready to go, and we put off in fine spirits; I found that the old lady had not deceived me by any means, for we had plenty of everything to eat and drink, and that which was good.
               We had a pleasant day of it, but like all other things mortal, the pleasures had to have a stopping place. The sun was fast declining in the west when we got ready to return. Whether it was owing to the accident that the newly painted chair subjected me to, or some other cause, I cannot say, but any way Kate seemed to like me much better than ever, and the old woman was glad of it. Kate and I had taken several walks together during the day, and enjoyed it splendidly; the old lady during the time was sitting in the house, making many arrangements for the future disposition of her daughter; what they were, I am unable to say, but still her calculations were by no means small.
               Mrs. Longwood's friend offered her half-a-dozen nice chickens to take home with her, if she was disposed to accept them; she did not say so pointedly, but I could see that they were looking to me to say that I would take them home for the old lady. I wished to be as clever as I well knew how, and told Mrs. Longwood that I would take them on my horse and carry them for her.
               Her friend sent out and had the chickens caught while we were fixing up; everything having been made ready, we made a start for the village. The chickens had been very nicely fixed; their legs had been tied together, and a strong string or rope run between them to make them fast, so I could carry them. Half of them were on one end of the string, and the other half on the other end, arranged on purpose for me to throw them across my horse's shoulders before me.
               The old lady and Kate got up and started out the gate; then they waited until a darkey put the chickens up before me. We started off, and all things went well for the first two or three hundred yards, but all at once, chicken-like—"Quaw, quaw, quaw, splutter, flutter, pull, flop, flip-flup, quaw, flutter, flop, flip—they all went, and if my horse didn't just think thunder clouds and lightning were raising up under him, I don't know what he did think, for he snorted, reared, kicked, jumped, covorted, and sailed into the air, like a feather in a whirl wind.
               As he struck land once more, he felt that his feet were under him, for express mails, telegraphs, and steamers were nothing to him. While the chickens were flopping their wings and squalling, the horse forgot everything else but the way home, and away he run; he doubled up his neck, humped his back, switched his tail and started. In about two seconds and a half we passed the old woman and Miss Kate; and as we shot by them, the old lady hollowed out to me, "hold on to the chickens, Mr. Fumble," but I was going so fast I did not have time to make her an answer.
               The faster the horse went, and the more he kicked and humped his back, the worse the chickens squalled
                     The Love Chase. Page 66.
                  
                   ed and flopped their wings. I suppose we had gone nearly a mile, in double quick time too, before the horse left the road; as he was going on, with his ears thrown back and his tail tucked down, a parcel of hogs heard him and ran out into the road. He was going so fast he could not hold up, and before the hogs could get out of the way, he ran across one and over we all went, falling in one confused, squally and squealing crowd together.
               There we all lay struggling and kicking together, until the old lady and Miss Kate came up, which was not long, for the old lady wanted to see what had become of her chickens.
               It would be difficult to say what might have been the doom of poor Fumble on that occasion had the old lady and Miss Kate not come up in time; I had got so tangled up with the horse, the hogs, the chickens, and myself, that I could not move a peg, and the dumb brutes and feathered floppers, were in just as bad a fix.
               The old lady was none of your chicken-hearted, craw-fish lookin' women and as soon, as she came up, she gave her horse in charge of her daughter, and came to my relief; in a few minutes she had got us all straight, and the first thing she said was "Are any of the chickens hurt?" I told her I could not tell how the chickens felt, but that I was considerably used up—another suit of clothes ruined—besmeared all over with dirt, horse hairs and chicken feathers. I thought my courting affairs were going to cost me more than I was able to stand up to, unless things got better, but still I did not tell the old woman what I was thinking about.
               It was not far from the place where I got the fall, to the village; so I told the old woman I would take the chickens and carry them on my own back if she would lead my horse.
               It was agreed to, and away we all went on home as happy as fat toads.
               Next day the old lady cooked up three of the chickens ens, and asked a few friends to dine with her; among the crowd was myself.
               At two o'clock we all met, and sat down to dinner in a few minutes afterwards. The old woman raised a laugh, after Mr. Longwood had said grace, and this she did by relating my misfortunes of the preceding day. After this was through she asked me to cut up the fowls and help the ladies and gentlemen.—I could not well refuse, so I pitched at them, determined to do the best I could.
               I got up out of my chair, shoved it back a little out of my way, took hold of the carving utensils, and soused the fork into one of the chickens; the effort that I made threw me a little off my balance, and I had to move my foot to get a better hold; in doing this, I stepped on to the tail of a roaring great big cat, that was under the table; he only squalled once his loudest squatted to it like an old wagon horse pulling through mud, and down he jerked me more than one-third of my length under the table.
               In falling, my head struck against the chair, and came near doing a complete job for me, but not quite; and besides this, I lifted the chicken out of the dish with my fork, and sent it with the power of a mad elephant, throwing it with a slight handed motion into the air: it struck against the top of the house—that is, the stair floor—bounced back, and "bim" it went on the bald pate of old Squire Drinkard.—The way the grease and stuffin' and parsley scattered over that room would have ruined the appetite of a Camel.
               I got up as soon as I could, had my head dressed, told the folks farewell, and started home.
               I saw that it was useless trying my luck in that crowd any longer; I had met with too many accidents, had too much to contend with, and resolved never to be found in it again. This resolution I kept and never did go again under any pretence whatever' I believe the old lady and Miss Kate both felt bad on account of it, but I thought their feelings could be no worse than mine had been on three different occasions—the painted chair and cow race, the load of chickens and sprained ancle, and lastly to be tripped up by a cat and thrown flat on my back in company, were all things I could not forget.
               I was again left at ease for a short time, having no love scrapes on hand; but now let me say to you, if you wish to hear anything more, you must wait until some other time. I have told you about as much at present as I can stand up to.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               A SHORT TRIP UNDER WATER.
               FUMBLE thus takes off an affair which he witnessed on the Ohio river, during his rambles in that region; if it is not what you would call a tight scrape, then I don't know what the word squeezing means. Why is it that in all ages of the world men are to be found who, for a larger or smaller sum of money, will risk their lives in endeavoring to accomplish a certain object which they have in view? Many reasons are assigned, but in a large majority of cases there cannot be a doubt but what honor, notoriety, a far-sounding name is the thing sought for. Once when I was on the Ohio river a few miles from Smithland, Kentucky, there was a fellow who came along and said he could walk across the river in half an hour's time. His proposition was to walk on the bed of the river, and come out on the opposite side, to prove which, it was only necessary for any person to bet with him one hundred dollars, that he conld not do it. It was looked upon as a trick of some kind and he found difficulty in meeting with any one who would bet with him. But still no one could tell how he was to get air to breathe for he could not hold his breath that long. At last he met with a man who agreed to stake the money if he would say there was no cheat or trick to be found out in the close of the scene. He pledged his forfeit if any cheat or trick was detected.
               The money was put up and competent judges chosen to witness and note the performance minutely and see that in the performance of his proposed feat there was no trick in the game, and should it be decided that he was trying to defraud any one, his money was to be forfeited.
               A day was appointed for the performance and when the time arrived, a vast crowd had collected to see the sight. At twelve o'clock the man who was to "go under," made his appearance, with a large cast iron vessel made for the purpose, and made ready to comply with his proposition. The man who had made the bet with him began to fear that his money would be lost and said it was a cheat, that any man could go across with that great apparatus on his head, and wished to have the opinion of the judges on the subject. He was saved the trouble of refering it to the judges, as the other man told him he would give him the apparatus and if he crossed over according to the proposition, he could take the money. So sanguine was he that he could go across, that he ventured to make the attempt. He was shown how to manage the vessel, which was to be worn over the head to retain atmospheric air for respiration during the perilous voyage.
               Before starting he desired that a skiff should be in readiness to come to his relief in case of his making a failure, and being compelled to come to the surface of the water. All this was agreed to by the opposite party, which seemed very fair.
               Every preparation being completed, he went down and was soon hid from view beneath the placid waters of the Ohio. All was anxiety, and suspense to see what would become of him, and none looked on more intently than did the man who had put up his money.
               Every moment seemed an hour, and still he stayed under the water for a length of time; some said that they believed he would get over safe, and win the money; others gave it as their opinion that the poor man had perished at the bottom with that great iron thing over his head, and that he was very foolish to attempt such a thing—one he knew nothing about, and that if he died he could blame no one but himself; a wag in the crowd said in a loud tone that he had found a wrecked steamboat, and was taking along such things as he could carry to his friends in Illinois, or that he had taken a notion to go down to New Orleans, for a short route.
               While these predictions were being made time passed on and still there was no appearance of the "submarine traveler." No one could tell how long the atmospheric air contained in the apparatus would support respiration, except the man concerned in the wager of money,—the man who had it made.
               Not knowing how the affair might terminate he was not disposed to give any information on the subject, but remained as mute as a mouse. At last when every thing was at the highest point of excitement the man from under the water "popped his head up," and was not more than ten feet from where he first started, and as he struck day light once more he snorted like an old fashioned sea porpoise, threw the water higher than the wheel of a steamboat, and yelled as loud for assistance as if he had been shipwrecked in the Greenland seas.
               The skiff that was in readiness, ran out to him, took him aboard and brought him to land. He was in just one of the most all smashed up fixes you could dream of; during his pleasure trip under water, he run into a "sawyer," which took him right by the rudder or in language such as people make use of on land—the nose he was seized, or hitched on to by what is called out west a "mud terrapin." It was as large a one as I have ever seen in the Ohio, and it had him right by the nose, and the blood running in a stream as big as a goose quill. The nose is rather a tender part of the body to meddle with any way, and with the feet of the terrapin digging into his face every moment it was more than any man could bear with silence, so he set up a cry of "foul holts," and asked his friends to help him out of his troubles.
               Every one was so completely "dumbfounded;" that they did not know what to do first but soon got to talking how they should get the "attachment rescinded." One would speak of this plan, another had one somewhat different, and a third was in favor of jerking the terrapin forcibly away; this was discountenanced by the wiser portion who knew the power of "hold-on-a-ble-ness," of the creature. The matter was, at last rendered ridiculously laughable by the same wag, who had been present from the beginning, making a new and entirely different proposition. He proposed to "let the tarrapin have a right of hold," for a short time and finally amended the proposition with a condoling proviso—that was—the animal will let loose when it thunders." This was horrible! for it was a very dry time, not a drop of rain had fallen for eight weeks, and thunder was almost a stranger in the land.
               After a spirited and rather lengthy debate on the case, it was decided to sever the terrapin's head from his body, and thus rid the man of a portion of the weight, which was making him see stars, a little of the worst. He candidly looked like a pig with his "rooter" under the fence, and would have fallen down, rolled over, and cut up a sight of di-do's if it had not hurt him to loud to admit of it; and besides that, he was fearful of losing a portion of his "scenter."
               A man was wanting to perform the operation, and as no one could do it safer than a doctor, they picked out one who happened to be in the crowd. He was as bold as Mister anybody, and out with his knife in a moment after telling some one to hold the terrapin by the tail to steady it, he made a swipe at neck. He had just as well been trying to cut the circle around the moon into fragments as that old thing's neck; it no doubt was the mammy and daddy of terrapin creation, and a third cousin to Adam the first.
               After many fruitless attempts the man of function gave it up with the knife operation and called for a mallet and chisel, with this he made a pass at the neck again, and off the thing come, but on a close examination it was found that it was the man's nose,—nearly three quarters of an inch was gone.—While this was being dressed the old terrapin creeped out of the way and got back into the river again, carrying with him the piece of nose for future consumption, or to "let loose when it thundered." In the rounds the iron apparatus was lost, and things being again quiet the opinion of the judges was called for. They deliberated on the case for sometime, and finally brought out a verdict, that, as the affair terminated in an unexpected manner, they believed it right to say "that as one had lost a nose, and the other his apparatus, they should quit even, and each man take back his money, treat the crowd and go home."
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               A DOG IN A GRIST MILL.
               Fudge Fumble is not alone in the world in the way of "wife-hunting," but we find that most of men have been more fortunate in love affairs than he has thus far; still, long must be the road that has no turn, so we will go on with Fumble on another excursion and see how he comes out:
               Having been in three love scrapes, in all of which I was admirably unfortunate, I made a vow not to notice another of the shemale sex for six months, let them be as pretty as they might. I counted up the expense, the uneasiness of mind, the utter impossibility or impracticability of marrying at such an early age, the loss of two suits of clothes and everything else before making such a rash vow; but a short time after making it, I felt very sorry that I had done so, for I saw a beautiful young Miss of sixteen, that fairly made the tears run out of my wrist joints to look at her.
               I choked down the inclination that I felt rising in my throat and lungs to go along with her, turned off abruptly, and went about my business.
               Every few days I would see some pretty young lady that made me feel woful sorry for making a vow to withdraw myself from the society of the dear young loving creatures, for the long space of six months in succession. Wasn't it awful?
               After adhering strictly to my promise for a few weeks, I got greatly over the effects of my boyish love, and began to feel gloriously independent. I was then extremely happy to think I had made out so well, and the longer I went without indulging in the tender passion, the better I felt.
               At the end of six months I had no inclination for going with the young ladies; at the end of twelve months I was as firm as ever; and thus I went on unharmed and happy for more than fifteen months. I had no sleepless nights, no hard breathing, no palpitation of my gizzard, no jealous feelings toward my fellow man, no red face in doses of five minutes' duration, no dreams of children, no fears of broom-sticks and women's tongues, no feeling as if a greased chair post was running through my breast, and without increasing the list of what didn't exist, allow me to say I got along as nice as possible.
               I was now nearly out of my teens, and began to think again whether or not it would be best for me to go with the young folks. I did not want to be a bachelor, for I had seen some few specimens of misery and hard heartedness resulting from such a condition of life, and therefore said to myself that I would once more try my luck with the women. It was not long until an opportunity offered, which I considered favorable, for making the acquaintance of a young lady. A young gentleman invited me one night to go with him to see some of his friends, and said that if I would, he would show me some pretty girls.
               I accepted the invitation, fixed up a little, smothered my bashfulness, got in the scales to see how heavy I was, and then he and I went over. It was a little after dusk when we got there, and we found the house nearly half full of girls that would do to hitch to in any climate; most half of them were the old man's daughters, and there was not an ugly one in the crowd.
               When we went in, the young gentleman who had gone with me, Joe Dyer, gave me an introduction first to the old folks—"Mr. Brown, my friend, Mr. Fumble; Mrs. Brown, Mr. Fumble; Misses Brown, Mr. Fumble;" and then he went on all round till I had been made acquainted with every one present.
               Joe (a fine young fellow he was) then commenced a conversation with one or two of the young ladies, as much as to say, "now, Fumble, pitch in and do your own talking, I have as much as I can do to attend to those on this side of the house, who can outtalk me at best, three out of two, and give me four the start." I branched off the best I knew how, which was far inferior to what it would have been some months previous; I had been so long out of the company of young ladies that I scarcely knew how to act. My hands were on the wrong side, and they got no better when I changed them; my legs seemed entirely unnecessary, while my feet looked as big as two sides of a barn, and felt clumsier than an ox cart.
               My arms were to one side, my hair looked like sheep's wool, my teeth were in a wrong position, my lips were parched and dry, my tongue anti-shakeative, and my mouth went off in fits and jumps, sometimes times jumping clear over the mark, and jumping on to a wrong subject.
               As usual, on such occasions, this awkward feeling gradually wore off, and I was getting along finely. I was principally engaged in making a selection of the one that I thought prettiest; this decision I come to in the course of half an hour; Miss Susan Brown I thought the prettiest in the crowd and directed my conversation mostly to her. She smiled and laughed, looked pleasing as an oven of bread before breakfast; and seemed much delighted with me; I was glad of it, and kept myself ready for putting on the best looks I could when she turned her pretty little dimpled face towards me.
               It is customary, you know, where there are a number of young people collected together, as there was on that evening, to have something for pastime; on the evening of which I am speaking, my young friend Joe was the first to speak of starting some fun. He proposed having a little amusement with an egg to begin with, which was readily agreed to by all present.
               An egg was procured, and then he took it to show the crowd what he intended them to do; he said that there was no person present who could take the egg and break it by squeezing it between the hands lengthwise. None of us had ever heard of the thing before, but concluded it would be an easy matter to break the egg in the way he had spoken of. He gave it to one of the girls and asked her to try it; she wanted some one else to undertake it first, but they all insisted that she was the one to try it first.
               After much persuasion, she took hold of it and gave it a squeeze; it was no use, she could not break it;—she tried again, and every one could see by the way she trembled and got red in the face, that she was not fooling. Another young lady tried, but with no better success; then the third, fourth and fifth tried; they all gave it up; Miss Susan Brown then tried and made a failure also.
               Joe then made a proposition that I should give it a trial. I did not like to back out of such a small affair, more especially after the girls had tried what they could do, and agreed to do it. The very first effort I made, I—failed, and then I felt about like the balance of them.
               It is generally the case that we all have an ambitious disposition, which leads us to accomplish whatever we undertake, let it be right or wrong; it is something which is as lamentable as it is true, and it often leads to the most serious results; let none, therefore, try to cultivate ambition which leads them into difficulties that are not easily got out of.
               I had some curiosity to know how it was that I could not break such a thing as an egg between my two hands! I accused Joe of tricking us all, but he said I might get another egg, or as many as I wanted, and that I could not break one of them.
               Miss Susan then went and got another egg, at my request, which I hoped I could manage; I did not like the thought of being beat in a crowd of young ladies. When she returned, I took the egg, turned it over and over again, and made a minute examination of it in every way to see if it was possible that Joe was making a fool of all the crowd, and me too. I could discover nothing in it, about it, or of it, in any shape or form that looked like a trick, and put it between my hands, and began to let out my strength. I squeezed equal to a young vice, but that did no good.
               Seeing that I was likely to be outdone, I relaxed my hold to take a rest. After waiting a few moments, I took hold of the egg again; Miss Susan seemed to admire my spunk, smiled on me as if she wanted to give some encouragement, came up right close and stood in front of me. This increased my strength at least ten or fifteen degrees, which, added to my ambition, made me a short Sampson. I took another set at the egg, and I tell you I did my best, but still it was as sound as ever; Miss Susey was looking at my every movement, and gritted her teeth two or three times to see if it would not help me; I was unwilling to give up, and gave a slight twisting, or grinding motion on the egg, (which was contrary to the proposition of Joe,) and all at once, "squash" it went; I had gratified my ambition, and the crowd was in a roar of laughter, but they were not laughing at the feat I had accomplished—they were nearly dying, looking at Miss Susan and me—as the egg burst, one-half of it went towards her and struck her all over the face and eyes, while the other half served me the same way, only a little worse; I had my mouth open, straining with all my might, and part of the raw egg went slap into it, and what made it worse, the egg was one of those kind where the hens had been sitting on long enough for it to make a young chicken, but it turned sour and staid that way, getting worse all the time.
               "Zhew! Zhew!" said all the gals, as they raised their handkerchiefs to their faces; I was seized with a vomiting as the consequence of my dose, and Susan run down to the kitchen to tell the cook not to put supper on the table quite so soon.
               By the time she had got back, my sick sick spell was getting a little better, and "drat that egg," says she, "did you get any of it down your throat?"
               "Yes, but it came back very quick," says I, "and I think I will be a little more careful next time—won't you get me some water, Miss, if you please?"
               She asked me to come down stairs with her, and she would get me the wash bowl and water. Before going, however, I turned round to the crowd and remarked that I was as sorry as possible for the accident which had happened, but could not relieve the case any then; they excused me, began to laugh again, put their handkerchiefs to their noses, looked as if they enjoyed my misery, and while they were doing that I went with Susan to find some water with which to wash my face and hands. Mr. Brown's house was a good looking log cabin, two stories high, and we were all up stairs, so Susan and I had to go down stairs to get the water; we went running down as hard as we could go, she being ahead of me. As I before observed, she had been down to the kitchen to direct the cook, a good clever old negro woman, not to hurry the supper; well in the hurry, bustle and confusion, the cook understood Susan to say, "hurry the supper," and accordingly she had placed as much of it as she could get on a large waiter, and was ascending the stairs with it all in her hands without any light.
               The old negro was quite hard of hearing, any way, and did not hear Susan and I coming, until she found her old self flat on the floor, and the supper scattered round for five yards square.
               In running down, Susan and I went against the poor negro, or that is, Susan ran against the negro, made a blunder, and I being so close could not stop, so we all went co-smash, rug, chug, changle, over to the bottom of the stairs.
               They all heard the noise up-stairs, and brought a light before Susan, myself, and the old negro, had time to get up. They assisted us in getting on our feet, and when we got up we saw a fine lot of broken dishes, cups and saucers, teapots, and many other things, including knives and forks, slices of fried ham, coffee, butter, &c., lying on the floor.
               The poor old negro was the only one who sustained much of an injury; she fell in such a way that one of the forks stuck into the back part of her head, and it went sock to the bone. The fork was removed, and washed off, no doubt, before it was put on the table again, and then the old darkey quit making such a noise.
               Susan and myself needed washing bad enough before, but this second edition of old scraps and greasy messes doubled the necessity of a thorough ablution with the aqueous element. I had stuck my nose an inch or two into the plate of butter, and Susan fell, with her white dress, right over the slices of meat and bottles of sweet oil, which rendered her an object of oil, grease, and dirty fingers, never to be disremembered.
               After we had washed off and got things straight again, Joe moved that all hands break up and go home, to meet at some future day. I seconded the motion, all voted for it, and a general distribution of the crowd followed. Before leaving, though, the old man and old woman, as well as Susan, gave me a pressing invitation to call and see them again very soon.
               Having been visited with an unusual good streak of luck on my first visit, I could not do otherwise than comply with their wishes.
               Joe and I then started off home, and I believe, he laughed all the way; he said he had never seen just such a man for luck in all his life. I told him it was the case with me when I went among the women, at which he seemed to be no little surprised.
               Notwithstanding the strikingly peculiar start I had made at Mr. Brown's, I thought I would "try it again." I went over in a few nights after, staid some time, talked over an area of two hundred square miles, admired Miss Susan—Miss Susan looked hard at me—I sighed slightly, took out my watch which had not run, or walked either, for twelve months, said it was ten o'clock, and after a few other closing remarks I left the scene of action.
               I had understood from some source or other, that the old man was pretty well off; this, very naturally, led me to look around, and see if I could discover any symptoms of it. A few days after my second visit, I had a fine opportunity of looking a little into his affairs. I had gone over to see Miss Susan, and after I had been at the house a short time, the old gentleman asked me if I would take a walk with him. I told him I had no objections. We started out from the house, and went in a northerly direction through a hilly and rocky section of country. We had not proceeded far, when he told me his object in taking such a long walk; he said that he had a mill about two miles off that he had to go and see occasionally, and as he felt rather lonesome, he thought he would like to have company.
               Besides this, he expected I would be glad to go and look at his property, including the mill and every thing else. I made the best of things that I could, and went on with him. Brown was a great man for talking, for dogs, and some other things, and always had something to amuse the crowd, the individual or himself, as the case might be.
               The day that I was taking the walk with him, he had his favorite old dog, Nimrod, with him, none of the rest of his dogs being any account. He told me many long-winded tales of what had happened him in former years, related some of his misfortunes, and many things relating to what he had done lately. His talk became rather irksome, but I tried to bear it very patiently. This I had to do for the sake of "keeping peace in the family."
               We had not proceeded far before the dog left us and struck off into the woods; Mr. Brown and myself were going along talking of the many trying scenes through which every person has to pass in this life, the losses, the crosses, afflictions and many other things, when all at once he halted and said, he thought he heard his dog barking; we remained still for a moment, and then I could hear the dog myself very plain.
               He told me that the dog had trailed a wild varmint of some kind, and that if I was willing, we would go by and see what it was; he said that it was very nearly in the direction of the mill anyhow, and would not be any out of our way. I consented and we struck off in the direction of his dog.
               We had to go across one or two very steep hills through deep hollows, and wade among bushes and briars for some distance before we could come up up with the dog; every once in a while we would stop to listen, and as we could still hear the dog barking, we went on. It seemed to me like the strangest barking I had ever heard; the dog would bark once, and then we could not hear him again for nearly a minute, but he was as regular as a clock. The old man did not seem to understand how this was himself, but said he had never known the dog to tell a lie in his life.
               We went on until we came in sight of the mill, and still we could not see anything of the dog. Mr. Brown began to feel a little strange in his conscientious region, for he thought very much of his dog. We stopped and listened again and again, still the dog appeared to be under the mill, in the mill, over the mill, or somewhere about the mill, and that was all we could make of it.
               As it was only two or three hundred yards to the mill, we decided to go on to it and see if we could find the dog; we went in and found the dog had not told a lie by any means; he had gone on before us, taking a near cut, and reached the mill which was grinding a grist of wheat; the dog was very hungry and jumped into the meal chest; as the mill turned round occasionally, it would throw out a little of the ground wheat, and the dog immediately licked it up to satisfy a growing appetite and empty stomach.
               The mill ground very slow, and the dog being hungry became impatient, and resorted to barking hoping to make the old mill hurry up and throw out another portion of ground wheat; thus they went on:
               "Rattle—chuck—ho—low—water," said the mill, and out it would throw about two table spoonsful of comminuted material. "Bow—bow," went the dog, as soon as he had licked it up, hoping to see some more of the precious material.
               The mystery was all explained in a moment. The old man gave the dog a good scolding for getting into the meal chest and taking such liberties, but the dog looked as if he had been accustomed to it. Mr. Brown did not boast as much of his mill by half, after that, as he had done when he first told me that he owned one, as he could see that my opinion of the mill was not by any means favorable. I thought if the rest of his estate was not more valuable than the mill, that I would not give much for it, all put together; I was badly disappointed.
               I then saw the fallacy of listening to reports of this man, that and the other, being rich, when they had children that were marriageable but unmarried, and resolved in my own mind to be very careful in future for I had set it down as a fact, that I had nothing else to do but to marry Miss Susan, lay right hold of the cash, and live as happy as a dead negro all the rest of my days. Fortunately for me, though, the dog had gone on before us, and gave a slight insight into the value of Mr. Brown's great mill, that he liked to talk so much of whenever I went to see Susan.
               We did not stay long until we went on back to Mr. Brown's; he was quite anxious to introduce something to make me forget the mill, and proposed taking some honey from a bee stand. I told him I was quite fond of honey indeed, and would be happy to assist him.
               A little preparation was necessary, such as getting cotton or rags to smoke the bees down from the top of the gum, a hammer to take off the head, &c., which were soon procured, and out we went to take the honey. Susan and one or two others of the old man's girls went out to look on, not daring to come nearer the bees than ten or fifteen steps. The old man was to loosen the head of the gum, I was to drive down the bees with the smoke, and he was then to take out the honey.
               We commenced; the head was taken off, bees driven to the bottom of the gum, and the old man commenced taking out the honey; as I was stooping over to blow in a little more smoke, the slab the gum was on gave way, throwing me and the bees, gum and smoky cotton, all in one pile on the ground below, while the old man was left standing above.—The bees had nothing else to do but pour themselves out, and they were all over me in heaps as big as your hat. They let in on me as none but bees are capable of doing, and I was stung in a hundred places before you could swallow a cow, grin the tail off a guinea pig, or make a pudding of brickbats. I saw no use of lying there on the ground, so I got up and made for the nearest pond of water; there happened to be one close by, and as soon as I reached it I plunged in over head and ears.
               I got every part of myself under water except my nose, and by this means made the bees relax their hold but not until I was the worst used up man you ever saw. I was in the greatest agony imaginable; I was so bad, and became so much swollen, that a doctor was sent for, and my situation was any thing but favorable for living.
               However, by judicious treatment, I was relieved in a few days so much that I went home. I was not able to attend to any business again for eight or ten days;—when I got out and began to mix among my fellow-humans once more, the first thing, the last thing, the oldest thing, the biggest thing, the roundest thing, all the thing, the only thing, and the most of it, which was to be heard, was "the scrape Fudge Fumble got into at old Brown's."
               Every old negro, the boys, the girls, old men, young men, old women, and young women, bull dogs, didappers, fools, and political speakers, were sounding it through the land, and I thought they would never quit it. Every time one of my acquaintances saw me, they would ask—" Is that swelling gone down yet? how do you feel since you got better?" and every detestable thing which was calculated to annoy me, they would ask.
               At last to make things still worse, I heard of Miss Susan, and some other members of the Brown family, talking about how I looked when the bees were on me; how I kicked, turned over in the water, grunted, and rolled from side to side of the house, &c. This completely cooked my meat for me, and I never went to Brown's again.
               Once more I made a resolve not to trouble the women for six months, locked up my feelings, what I had left, rubbed some hartshorn over me to reduce the swelling that still partially existed, went out into the woods, shot a pole-cat, licked a big negro man belonging to old Coldfeathers, made some soup of inkstands and fire shovels, hung myself out in the sunshine, and went to sleep!"
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE INDEPENDENT LAZY-MAN'S SNOOZING ASSOCIATION.
               OUR friend Fumble concluded to take a trip on the Mississippi river, to see how the natives looked, and the next place we find him, is in the state of Indiana; and, if we are to judge by appearances, in the description he has given of those parts, it will be a place where many will go for the sake of living by their wits. He thus tells of what he witnessed:
               In the year 18— and, but never mind the year now; you want to hear of the Lazy Association I promised to tell you about the first good chance.
               One who had every chance of knowing the secrets of the order, furnished me with a copy of the constitution and by-laws of this association, so I will read them off for your benefit.
               
                  PREAMBLE.
                  We, whose names are here annexed, desirous of forming a society to protect us from human or animal imposition, and to dispense with all manner of exercise, as far as in our power lies, afford mutual assistance to those who are endeavoring to be lazy, and to elevate the good feelings of our natural bodies in summer when it is hot, and winter when it is cold, to be comfortable, and to render ourselves notorious as the "laziest of all things in existence," do pledge ourselves to be governed by the following Constitution and By-Laws:
                  
                     ARTICLE I.
                     This association shall be known as the "Independent Lazy-Man's Snoozing Association."
                  
                  
                     II.
                     No member shall move more than three feet during each twenty-four hours, unless it is in going to or returning from the regular meetings.
                  
                  
                     III.
                     The officers shall consist of the White Pig, Wild Animal, Red Snail, Additional Red Snail, Flat Snail, Toad, Calf, Additional Calf, Inside Watcher, Outside Sneaker, all of whom shall be elected by ballot, every three months or oftener, if the laziness of the case demands it.
                  
                  
                     IV.
                     It shall be the duty of the White Pig to preside over the rest of the members until he gets too lazy or falls asleep; to call to account any such as he may suspect as guilty of eating, working, drinking, or any other exercise than talking in a low whisper; to guard against impositions on the order, such as admitting those who have been at any time in their lives, known guilty of working or thinking more than once a month, and to perform such other things in the association, as the laziest member may at any time think of, provided it does not require exercise.
                     It shall be the duty of the Wild Animal to render the White Pig such assistance in doing nothing, as may be thought necessary, and in the absence of the White Pig to attend to this duty alone.
                     The Red Snail shall keep an impartial record of the proceedings of the association, write notices when members are allowed a drink of water, or two thinks a month; notify all members within ten miles, of such occurrences as moving fingers, winking, and picking the teeth, that any one belonging to the association may have been guilty of. He shall make out, just before he resigns his office, a list of those known guilty of attempting to pick their teeth, or other offences of like character.
                     The Additional Red Snail shall report the Red Snail, if he is known to say a word during his term of office, or in any way violates the exercise rules.
                     The Flat Snail is to keep a just and true account of the number of grunts heard during the current term, and deliver the same over to the Toad, taking his head for the same. He shall deliver up to his successor all the nails found in the room, and the basins shall also be accounted for.
                     The Toad has a duty to perform—pay all drafts drawn on the association, out of his own pocket, and if he should be found guilty of so much exercise as to grumble or say two words, he shall be expelled, to the tune of "Died from exercise."
                     It shall be the privilege and duty of the Calf to to introduce persons of the laziest habits; he shall also introduce any slow mean looking breeze of air passing in the neighborhood, for the more effectual purpose of increasing the fidelity of the noble, lazy band. He shall furnish a place on the floor for every member to lay down, and hire a horse to breathe for him. He shall take charge of all lazy words and lock them up for a future time, and assist the members in swallowing.
                     The Additional Calf shall report the Calf, if he sees him moving about the room, or should he see him, at any time pulling off or putting on his hat, he will forthwith let it be known; or should he come into the room with his hat on or off, he is to expel him, immediately.
                     It shall be the bounden duty of the Inside Watcher, to see that no member goes in, or comes out of the room, at any time, neither is he allowed to go in himself, and if he is found outside, he shall leave the association.
                     The Outside Sneaker shall, on all occasions, stay away from the meetings, to hear what people say of the association, and hunt up members; but should he be absent at any time, he shall be compelled to eat a live dog, which has been dead, not less than three, nor more than five months.
                  
                  
                     V.
                     No person shall be admitted into this association unless he can lay two hours in a bake oven without grunting; no man can grunt without exerting himself. He shall not be more than one hundred, nor less than two years old, and must not weigh less than two hundred and forty pounds.
                     No person shall be admitted who has a prospect of doing anything during his life, or one who ever was industrious.
                  
                  
                     VI.
                     The regular dues shall be a big brindle dog every three months; and two in the same length of time, if the dog ever barks.
                     Every member well qualified, in case of his becoming so lazy that he cannot attend the meetings, shall receive monthly a pair of bellows to breathe for him, unless it can be shown that said laziness was brought on by exercise of any kind.
                     In the case of a member dying he shall be allowed to lie in the room for thirty days without any charge. Should a member's wife die, he shall be allowed to go home and see her twice, unless such death was produced by washing clothes in her husband's absence.
                  
                  
                     VII.
                     Any member who shall be known to get out of a shower of rain, or open his eyes, shall not be allowed to eat anything for the next three months, and shall only breathe as the moon changes.
                     Should a member absent himself from a meeting he shall be fined a mouthful of hot water, and in case he comes to the meeting during his membership he shall be fined the same: no member has a right to be absent or present at the stated meetings.
                     Any member known to be guilty of walking in the sunshine without an umbrella shall stand on his head between a saw and a foot-adze for three hours, and if he is seen with an umbrella over him he shall be made to drink a barrel of molasses, and eat two bed posts before dinner.
                     A member known guilty of any kind of work shall be hung by the neck for two hours, and then expelled; such member cannot again be admitted under three days.
                  
                  
                     VIII.
                     Quarterly terms shall be held every Wednesday, unless it comes on Sunday, when it shall be held on the following Tuesday.
                  
                  
                     IX.
                     No member can be elected to hold an office unless he is a drunkard; and those who are in the habit of using intoxicating liquors under any circumstances, must not offer himself as a candidate or he will be grunted out of the order.
                  
                  
                     X.
                     Any member who knows of another member to have spoken more than three words in the course of three months, or has combed his hair, or brushed his teeth, since he was a member, and fails to report him, shall be fined three screams as loud as he can give them. A member guilty of blowing his nose, scratching his head, singing a tune, or drinking water, shall be tarred and feathered, and made to climb a greasy pole.
                  
               
               
                  BY-LAWS.
                  
                     ARTICLE I.
                     The members shall meet after they get ready to go to sleep, and before they have time to pick up an appetite.
                  
                  
                     II.
                     There shall be a committee appointed, whose duty it will be to see if any of the members have been guilty of coughing; coughing is decidedly opposed to the rules and usages of the order.
                  
                  
                     III.
                     If any of the members become so lazy that they do not wish to come to the stated meetings, they can stay at home, if they consider it any lazier to do so; and if he has a crop of any kind that does not plant itself, grow itself, give itself out to the stock, and attend to its own affairs, the member shall expel it from his fields.
                  
                  
                     IV.
                     Any member receiving benefits from this association, who is found to be guilty of performing any kind of labor, shall be made to wash his face and hands three times a week in cold spring water, and chew his own food for a fortnight; this is a severe penalty, but it will be enforced, should a member violate the law: we are determined to not be imposed on.
                  
                  
                     V.
                     A member known to raise his foot more than two inches from the ground, or to carry more than one tooth in his head at one time, shall be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor and expelled from the society; if any member goes to sleep and does his own swearing he shall be fined a cow, and compelled to do his own swallowing for a month.
                  
                  
                     VI.
                     No part of these by-laws shall be repealed, annulled, altered, or amended, unless the member so proposing shall be the laziest in the society, and while in the dorsal recumbent position.
                     The above will, no doubt, appear as rather a strange document, but when the affair has been fully explained, it will be seen that it was of great practical importance at that day. There was a man living in the neighborhood that was undoubtedly one of the laziest men that ever stood on two feet, and the neighbors did not like such a man to live among them.—They were an industrious, hard working people, and always were ready to assist each other as much as possible during log rolling time, and when they were gathering in their crops; or if a neighbor happened to be sick, and his crop got into the weeds, no people were more ready to join together and help the poor fellow out than those of whom I am now speaking.
                     One instance alone, will be sufficient to convince you of the position I have taken: One of the neighbors had the misfortune to get his house burnt down, totally destroying every thing he had; he was a hard working man, and honest as the days are long, he had laid up a nice little lot of furniture, for a back-woodsman, and had many valuables, but the devouring element at once swept them all away. At the time that the fire occurred, every one of the family were absent at a Methodist meeting in the neighborhood; thus depriving them of saving any thing.
                     As soon as the circumstance was known the neighbors flocked in, and in less than two days they had made up for the unfortunate man more than twice as much as what he had lost. But now bear with me and I will endeavor to close my remarks on this subject in as few words as possible.
                     As previously stated, there was a man living in this neighborhood who was the laziest of men, or women either, to be found on the habitable globe. Sometimes he would make enough "meat and bread" to live on, and again he would not; then the neighbors had to make it up rather than see his wife and family suffer. He would frequently plant a crop and work it until lazy weather came and then leave it to run to distruction.
                     With regard to wheat, it was different, that he could sow in the fall when the weather was not so oppressive, plow it in, and it would grow with but little trouble, but then one misfortune was that it would ripen and require cutting when he least felt like working, and frequently it was lost,
                     One year the wheat crop was unusually good, and with others, Judkins'; (that was the lazy fellow's name,) was also good, but he did not show any symptoms of taking it in. Some of the neighbors got together and talked over the case; they said it seemed like a great shame to see such a good crop of wheat lost for the want of cutting, and thought some plan should be devised to save it, for unless they did, before six months they would have to feed Judkins' family.
                     It was resolved that on the next night they would all gather in and reap the wheat by moonlight. It was a novel proposition, but let us see the result.—It was firmly agreed that Judkins should not know by whom or how his wheat was reaped; perhaps he might think it was a providential thing and take warning to do better in future!
                     The night appointed turned out to be a fine, clear, moonlight night, and as there were a large number that gathered in, it did not take long to reap the wheat, tie and shock it. The neighbors then went home hoping that the experiment would have the desired effect.
                     As usual, next morning Judkins took his gun and went out to kill some squirrels, of which there was any number in that section of country. He generally went around the field where the wheat was, as the squirrels were very apt to be there after the wheat. He went along for some distance without observing that the wheat had been cut, but not seeing as many squirrels as usual, he looked over the fence to see if there was any inside of the field.
                     The first thing he noticed was the wheat all cut, tied, and shocked up, as well as he could have done it himself. He took with a trembling and let his gun fall off of his shoulder, in a moment, and would, doubtless, have went into spasms had the gun not fallen on a log, and struck the tube so hard that the gun went off, making a report sufficiently loud to wake up his faculties to fever heat. Not thinking that it was his gun that made the noise, he concluded it was a clap of thunder, which had the effect of alarming him still worse. He could make nothing else of it but a judgment sent on him for being so lazy, made a vow to his Maker to change his course, recovered a little, and went on home.
                     He told his wife of the "wonderful circumstance," who coincided entirely with him as to its being a warning. The man was completely changed; he began to work and he "prospered in all his undertakings."
                     Many years past he joined the Church, became a good christian, and no doubt is happy to this day, but he never found out who reaped his wheat."
                     This is the man that had been presented with a copy of the "Lazy man's Association." resolutions, constitution, by-laws &c., hoping to disgust him with laziness, but it was all to no purpose,—the only thing that ever did him any good was. "REAPING WHEAT BY MOONLIGHT."
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               LOVE AND LEMONS.
               IT is naturally supposed that by this time Fumble has recovered from injuries received when he last made love to the ladies—but here he comes, he will lead us into the mysteries:
               Time passed on; I was now over twenty years old, and had been in the society of young ladies for several months, the thought of a long life of uninterrupted happiness, which had braced me up in my boyhood, now began to sink deep in the bosom of nothingness; the blissful moments which I had once counted my own, were gone, and I was left to reflect seriously on what would be my course in future life.
               My parents were several hundred miles from me, and I could not then receive from them any words of advice; everything came rushing over me in a moment, and none but those who have experienced similar feelings can describe the misery of that moment.
               But some new thought presented itself to my imagination, and I seized on it with eager hope of a better future.
               These serious thoughts had no doubt been aroused more especially from the fact that I had recently moved, and again I was thrown among strangers, to encounter whatever might come in my way. But recollecting that misfortunes and afflictions of every kind were enhanced by giving way to gloomy reflections, I cast them all aside, and still endeavored to cherish a hope, that a "brighter and a better day was coming."
               My dear young friends, who are yet unmarried, I hope you will learn a lesson from what I am now going to tell you; there are many who will read these sketches, who are unaware of the dangers which surround them, previous to forming a matrimonial alliance, and to you especially would I recommend a perusal of the following which happened to me:
               Up to the age of twenty, I had as you will see by my previous history been in four love scrapes, all of which terminated fatally; this was not the case, because of ill treatment from young ladies entirely, you will recollect, but from the fact, that let me go where I might, or at what time I might, I was making some dreadful mistakes, committing myself in every instance, rendering myself almost a perfect laughing stock for the entire neighborhood! It seemed unavoidable on my part, for I am certain no one ever took more pains to be careful than I did; but, after all, you have seen the results of my experiments, and they have, thus far, been quite undesirable—to me at least.
               While I was once more quietly reposing in the shades of mind my own business, and stay at home, there was a pedlar going the rounds of the neighborhood, where I was living. He made his regular trips every two or three weeks, and called every time he passed, to stop all night. He was a young man of fine personal appearance, and as talkative as pedlars generally are. One night, when he stopped at the house, he and I were put in the same room to sleep, but in different beds; he was always anxious to become intimate with those persons who could best advance his interest; and as I was a little glabiniferacious, he took, apparently, quite a liking to me.
               When we went into the room to go to bed, he commenced a conversation on some subject I do not now remember what, and on he went, not giving me time to get in a word edgeways, more than once every five minutes.
               It was not long before he got on the subject of love and matrimony, pretty girls, happiness in abundance dance, and money—yes, piles of it—all at one dash, to be obtained by merely putting a little brass on the face and conscience. He gave a very flattering account of a young man of his acquaintance, who was very poor, but had married rich by having the spunk to ask an old farmer's daughter to have him.
               This seemed to open a new steamboat route to fortune that I had not previously thought of; "if I could put on a little brass, I might be as fortunate as him," thought I.
               We had not been talking long, until he spoke of an old gentleman of his acquaintance, that was very rich, and had only two children, both of them daughters, the youngest of them being still single, and remarked that he had no doubt but what I could get her, if I would try. He said that he was very well acquainted with the young lady, and would use his influence in my behalf; he gave me a cordial invitation to come to his father's, who lived in a little village some ten or twelve miles off.
               He told me that the young lady was really beautiful, had a good education, was affectionate, kind, and agreeable; in fact, he gave me a glowing description of her every way. By pursuing this plan, he got my feelings up to high water mark, and I told him I would go to his father's the following Sunday. He said that he would not be at home on that day, but if I would come the next Sunday after, he would go with me and introduce me to her.
               That time was agreed upon, but I did not like to wait so long, I felt like pitching in right off.
               We both then went to sleep; I dont know how he felt, but I know I had some of the biggest, the longest, the happiest, the richest, and the strongest dreams that ever crept through a poor mortal brain in America or any other country.
               Next morning, before he started, we had another talk on the subject, and he seemed to be the gladdest fellow that I ever laid eyes on, to think that Miss Lucy and me would suit so well. He said he was a great friend of hers, and wanted to see her doing well, and knew she would like me; he then went on his way, selling his goods, and I wished the appointed Sunday was come.
               It would seem almost needless to say that the days and nights were ungovernably long, but still I will say it, they were the longest that I had ever put over, I was counting up how I would make use of the money that she had, how I would talk to her, how I would fix the work for the darkies to do while I rode about, how I would talk to the old folks, and more especially how I would make my first speech. I had a dozen different ways planned out that would make a good impression, at the start, and while I was doing all this, the time rolled up for me to start, and I can assure you that I put on the best fixings I had, mounted my horse, and set out for his father's. Be it understood, before I further go, that the young man's name, the pedlar, was James Bead, a little round-faced, but as I said before, rather good-looking. Also, be it overstood, that the young lady's name was Lucy Pole, and her father, James Pole, his wife Anny Pole, and his biggest darkey was named Dick.
               When I got to young Bead's father's, I found him at home, but he said he was so situated he could not go to Mr. Pole's with me that day. He expressed considerable regret that it was the case, however, and said he had a young friend who was acquainted with Miss Lucy, also, and if I would agree to go with him, he would give me an introduction to her.
               I did not care much who gave the introduction, so as I got acquainted and brought things to a happy termination, and told him I would go with his friend He went after him, leaving me at his father's and soon returned, accompanied by a very good-looking, intelligent young man, that he called Boler. After making us known to each other and talking a short time, young Boler and I started to see Miss Lucy; we arrived at the house of her father in a very short time, got down, went in, and then I was introduced to Mr. and Mrs. Pole.
               After sitting a short time, young Boler called for Miss Lucy, and to my unmanageable astonishment and shocking disappointment, she was from home! We did not stay very long until we arose to start; the good lady, Mrs. Pole, remarked that she was sorry Lucy was out, and invited me to come again.
               I took the road for home and young Boler returned to the village. On my return I thought over the affair, very seriously: "Can it be possible that I will ever own all them good houses, lands, darkies, stock, and other things? There is an immense chance of good furniture, too, besides other nice fixings; if ever I do marry that girl and get this property, I will take good care of it for her, and oh! but won't I love her? but how is it that Bead did'nt go? I don't like that, but still he may be so much engaged, he could not leave, and why would he ask me to come here, if he did'nt intend all things as he said? I will go back next Sunday any how, and see how things go, it is worth trying for, and suppose I do get into a scrape, it is something that I am used to and it won't hurt me; but if that frog-faced little chap acts the rascal with me, if I don't give him 'goss' the next time I catch him out, then my name ain't Fumble, but a fool."
               Thus it was that I reasoned, and I can tell you that I meant just what I was saying; that fellow had no right to be trifling with my feelings, my happiness and my time, for he had always been treated kindly at my friend's house—they never charged him anything for feeding him and his horses, traded with him, and did what they could to assist him in selling his goods.
               He was considered a great convenience in the neighborhood, from the fact that he would exchange his goods for feathers, beeswax, &c., things that the farmer's wives had in great abundance.
               Well, another week passed and then came Sunday I had studied most of Saturday night whether to go or not. I had some misgivings and apprehensions. I did not know but the fellow was trying to fool me and get me into a muss of some kind; but I decided in favor of going once more, hoping I would get a chance to see Miss Lucy. Early on Sunday morning, I got ready and went to Mr. Pole's; I was so fortunate that time as to find the young lady at home; her parents gave me an introduction to her; the ice was cracked, and I considered that I had a start.
               I did not feel as brilliant as the king of big-bugs, but managed to get my mouth off in good time, and in pretty good order.
               I had expected that the young lady wanted to go to Church and that I would have the chance of going with her, but in this I was disappointed, for she did not go. I staid until after dinner, passed rather a pleasant time of it, received an invitation to call again, and then bid them good day.
               Encouraged by the kind treatment I had received, I went on Saturday night, two weeks after, and staid all night. Next morning, after breakfast, I asked Miss Lucy if she was going to Church. She said "no!" very emphatically. This was pretty flat talk but I stood it the best I could. I staid until Church time, and then went home. When I was going to leave, I bid the old lady good bye, shaking her by the hand, and then I went through the same process with Miss Lucy—as she shook hands with me, the old lady, her mother, spoke up with considerable spirit and told her that she did not want to see her "shake hands" with a young man again.
               Although I was accustomed to many of the peculiarities and odd notions of country mothers, this was once when I felt shocked in the exercise of it. I made no reply when Mrs. Pole told Lucy the "law," but bowed as politely as a hungry dog to a bowl of soup, and walked out, not knowing when I would come again.
               
               Fearing that something was wrong, I went by the village to ask the pedlar for an explanation. As soon as I named it he laughed and said it was the old lady's way, and that I must not notice it. In regard to the young lady, he said she was a little backward until she became better acquainted, but when she took a liking to a man, she was very familiar, and would "love fit to kill."
               It all looked reasonable, and I expressed myself satisfied, put on my hat, got on my horse, stuck the spurs to him, and went on my way rejoicing.
               A week or two afterwards, I took a notion that I would go "once more," to see Miss Lucy. I went on Wednesday, instead of Sunday, as I had been doing before; it was about eleven o'clock when I got there, and a fine day in May. I found her at home, and every thing looked a little brighter than when I left her before; her mother was in a fine humor, asked me many questions, told a number of old Virginia yarns, and laughed heartily. Thinking that I could venture a little further, I asked Miss Lucy if she would like to take a walk in the garden. She consented, and we walked out, leaving the mother in the house.
               We went through the garden, looked at the pretty flowers, talked very freely, and then we agreed to go into the orchard after some cherries and "May apples," a species of fruit which is to be found plentifully in most of the southern and western states.—The orchard was not in the best condition you ever knew of; there was a quantity of bushes, briars, and other undergrowth, which was interfering with the fruit trees very much.
               We had gone through most of the orchard and were returning to the house, when I heard a rattling, rustling, hustling, bustling, or something else, in the corner of the orchard, and started to turn round to see what it was, but I had hardly turned my face before I saw a dog, coming like death or gunpowder was after him, tangled in a mess of briars; he came so fast I had not time to get out of his way, and he ran between my legs, throwing me flat on my face on the ground.
               As I fell, I heard Miss Lucy scream out, "Oh, there comes old Grey," and off she went, jumped over the fence, and ran towards the house. Before I had time to get on my feet, I heard another noise behind me, and up come "old Grey," sure enough, which was nothing but an old grey mare, and as she approached, she tucked her head and took me about mid-way of the back, raised me up, and threw me more than ten feet in the air; as I fell, she took a fresh hold on me and repeated the dose, throwing me into the air again; of course, I did not stay up there long before I came down, when I struck the earth the second time, the old "grey" laid hold of my coat with her teeth and also commenced pawing me with her fore feet.
               I was thinking that it was the hardest place I had ever been in, and yelled out loud and in good fashion. "old Grey" was doing her level best on me, when Dick, the big darkey, came to my relief. I don't think I felt better in all my life, than when I saw that darkey coming, for my back was getting "goss," and no mistake.
               I went on to the house as soon as I could, and now don't you reckon I felt bad? with my coat all torn in rags, my hat mashed up as flat as a dish rag, and my face as dirty as a mud terrapin. I was furnished with a coat by the old gentleman, and after washing myself I took leave of the family and went home, feeling the worst you could think of. The cause of the accident, (as I understood afterward, for I had no feelings for staying then,) was about as follows: This "old Grey" was a favorite animal of Mr. Pole's, that had a young colt, and all the country people know how ill a mare is then; well, this dog happened to be fooling about in the briars, and the mare seeing him took after him; he made tracks for a place of shelter, and went very fast, notwithstanding he was encumbered with a quantity of the briars sticking to him in which he had become tangled.
               He came rushing along, not knowing where he was going, and thus knocked my trotters from under me; the mare being close behind, considered me as favorable an object for her teeth as the dog, and so she set in on me, and there is no telling what would have become of me, had it not been for that darkey, Dick. I gave Dick half a dollar that day before I went home, for I thought he deserved it.
               My reflections, as I went home, were quite different from what they were the first time I went to see Miss Lucy. I had to weep over the loss of a suit of clothes, a good hat, and a very sore back—almost equal to the cow and painted chair scrape.—I thought for a little while that Lucy had taken me in the orchard on purpose, to get 'old Grey' after me, but a second consideration led me to believe she had not done that, for she would be running her own self into danger, as well as subjecting me to the mishaps which did befall me.
               After my back got well and I had got some more clothes, I went to see Lucy again. Things did not look quite so favorable that time, for I found both Lucy and her mother mad about something. While I was there, I went through the house to look at some one passing the road, and stood at the front door for some time. Miss Lucy happened to be in a room close by, and I heard her soliloquizing; she said many things, but the one which attracted my attention most was.
               "I wish that little swivel would stay at home, and not be coming to see me!" and I knew she meant nobody else but a man about my weight.
               Not wishing to intrude any longer, I quietly stepped back into the house, got my hat, told the old lady "good day," left my respects for Lucy, and started home. As I was passing out the door, her guilty conscience began to hurt her, no doubt, for she expected I had heard what she said while in the room, and out she came and asked me if I was going home so soon.
               "Yes, this little swivel is going home, never more to trouble you with his society, but before I go allow me to state to you the circumstances connected with my visits to you:
               "A young man, by the name of Bead, who is a pedlar, happened one night to be thrown into my company, and in the course of our conversation, he spoke of an amiable, lovely, affectionate, beautiful and accomplished young lady of his acquaintance, that he said he knew I would like, and offered to bring about an acquaintance. I became a victim to his flattery, and his intrigue, and this sad termination of the case is my reward; he has trifled with my feelings for no cause, subjected me to ridicule when I least deserved it, and proved, a false-hearted villain, and as sure as yonder sun shines on us now, he will henceforth be the object of my greatest hatred; and rest assured, my vengeance will yet fall upon his head. I know not on what terms of friendship you and he stand, and, with all regard for your feelings, let me tell you I care not, but nothing, save death itself, shall hinder my purpose—I will be avenged—once and for ever, fair lady, adieu! you will hear of me in days to come."
               After delivering these few valedictory remarks I left the scene of—dried apples and little swivels in grand disgust. Lucy seemed to be greatly confused, so much so that she could not make me any reply, and amid her confusion I left.
               I went through the village to see young Bead, but found he was out on his pedling rounds; however, I heard sufficient to satisfy me of his villainy. A young man, who was doing business in a dry goods store, with whom I had a slight acquaintance, said to me, "Oh! Mr. Fumble, you are about to get into Mr. Bead's love matters!"
               "Why so, sir?"
               "Well, I understand you are paying attention to Miss Pole, and he has been engaged to marry her for two or three months."
               "Ah, indeed! I will not be in his way, any more then, on that score, but he shall hear of me some night when it thunders, or when the frogs are stirred up in dry weather; mind it, what I tell you."
               It was as plain as daylight, that he had merely been experimenting with me, to see how much the girl loved him. I went on home to make preparations for an attack on him in some way. On arriving at home, I learned that he was then in the neighborhood, on his regular trip.
               On making inquiry, I learned that he was to pass a certain place after night, and got some of my friends together to tell them my troubles. They were ready to assist me in anything that would be necessary to satisfy my revengeful feeling. I got them all to meet me on the road that night, where Bead was to pass, and all was right. We did not wait long before we heard his carriage rattling over the rocks, and he singing and whistling, as if he had never done any harm in his life. When he had got opposite to us, I said:
               "Now, for a rush, boys, get hold of the horses," and it was done before you could smack your lips.
               We were all so dressed, that he could not tell who we were—I had on women's clothes, and the others had something else. The fellow yelled out in a hurry, but I told him if he said another word he would be killed, so then he hushed.
               While some of the boys held the horses, the rest of us gave Bead a good coat of "Tar Grease and Feathers;" we then shot off a few guns, raised a torch-light, shook a few rattle-traps, knocked down some old tin pans, let the horses loose, and told them to go. They shot like wild bucks in a cane break, and if they didn't shatter that carriage and scatter them goods, such a thing as promiscuous distribution is not to be found in history.
               We let Bead loose, and he put on after his horses, goods and chattels; then we broke up and went home, but I forgot to remark that his head was shaved off close to the skin before we let him go.—Next day, the neighbors were busily engaged picking up the pieces of calico, domestic, and pantaloon stuff, that were strewed along the road and through the woods. There was a large lot of feathers in the carriage, which were scattered all over the country; the carriage was broken all into little smashes, and the horses had run themselves nearly to death. The pedlar managed to find his way to a neighbor's house and washed off the extra coating we had given him, but his hair was "very short still." It would be unreasonable to say that I was anywhere in the neighborhood next morning, for if I had been every one would have blamed me for getting hold of the pedlar. This is the way gentle folks, to keep clear of things. I got on my horse as soon as we all got through with Bead, and rode more than fifteen miles before stopping, and did not return to the neighborhood for a week; by that time the excitement had greatly worn off, and no questions were asked me, only:—"Did you hear of the accident the other night, that happened the pedlar, just below the old mill?"
               "No," says I, "what was it?" and then they went on to tell me.
               The pedlar's horses were greatly bruised up by running through the woods, and were so stiff they could not walk for three or four days. On his return home, Bead could hear of nothing but "how happened the accident?" "what is the matter with your head?" "where were you?" "who did it?" and a thousand other little affectionate inquiries. The loss that he sustained, including horses, his hair, loss of time, loss of reputation, dry goods, and feathers, was particularly considerable, and it took him until yet to get over it, and he ain't over it now, at least, I would call it a very poor "getting over it."
               The very eloquent address that I delivered to Miss Lucy, convinced her that Bead was acting the scoundrel, and she "sacked" him—she never would speak to him again, though they had been engaged for some time. She was a girl of good sense—don't you say so?
               A few months after that, she was married to a very clever gentleman, and they have lived happily together ever since; her father died a few years ago, leaving her a nice little fortune, and I am sure I hope she may long live to enjoy it. Dick, the big darkey that saved my life, has been set free, and is making a good living. The old lady don't tell her daughter anything more "about shaking hands with young men," but attends to her own affairs. Bead has been looked upon as a scoundrel ever since and leads a life of single wretched blessedness, with nobody to console him; while Fumble is now in the "full enjoyment of health and happiness."
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               STOCK, STILL PONIES, AND A RUN-AWAY MATCH.
               FUMBLE should have a little time to breathe, perhaps, but as he has just got into a good way, we will let him go on with his troubles:
               "Halloa, old fellow, how do you come on? Where have you been all this time? Get out, but how you have grown since I last saw you! You are a strange chap I believe, any way Fudge?" Thus was I addressed by an old and tried friend, a few months after my last love scrape; as usual, I had again moved my quarters from abroad, and was pleasantly greeted on my return to the "old stumping ground."
               I had been absent a length of time and felt happy once more to look upon scenes so dear to my heart; it brought up in my recollection, the many cherished objects of former days, and amid the mixed feelings of sorrow, hope, regret and pleasure, I had many things to cheer me up and make me think that I was welcome in the land of my boyhood. I spent some time in going to see my old friends, and enjoyed myself very much; on one Saturday, a short time after my return, I was staying with a young friend, with whom I had been very intimate in former years; while at dinner he asked me if I would not like to go to church the next day.
               I told him I had no objections, and promised to go. As this was the first time I had been to church or any other public place since my return, I expected to see many of those with whom I had associated in times gone by, which, of course would afford me a great pleasure.
               Next morning I went to his father's house, to go with him to church; I was agreeably surprised to find there a very pretty young lady, an acquaintance of his father's, who was also going to church.
               When we all got ready to start, having been introduced to her, I asked her if I could have the pleasure of her company; she consented, and we all started off together. My young friend, Lewis Junks, went with another young lady, so we were both very well suited.
               I dont know that I can say there was anything very remarkable that occurred at church, so I will not go into the particulars of that day on that subject, in particular, but proceed to tell you how the young lady and I got along aftewards; she was most uncommon talkative, and kept me busily engaged all the time; she could talk a little of the fastest, the loudest, the strongest, the longest, and the most of it, that I ever saw womankind in warm climates, but still I managed to keep up with her; she was pretty enough to eat raw, and before I knew what I was about, she had knocked a hole into my gizzard, and set me to sighing like a falling tree. After services were over we went on home, as long as we had no more business there, to get some dinner; this being attended to, we all took a walk in the green woods and during the balance of the day, had as fine a time of it as human beings are capable of bearing.
               I began to get desperately in love, the trees looked all beautiful, the words that fell from her mouth sounded like golden hopes of never ending happiness; her every action resembled an angel's; her hair was flowing as rivers of brandy; her eyes were piercing as balls of fire of a dark night, while her form and features were heavenly to think of.
               The day passed off in the most desirable style ever witnessed, and as we were about parting, I asked her if I might call on her again? she consented, which made me feel mighty good, I can tell you, and then we all broke up and went to our different places of abode. I could hardly bear to stay away a week from her, but I did, and on the arrival of the following Sunday I went over to take another peep at her. She looked more gooderish than ever, smiled, bowed, tied a handkerchief round her head, and asked me how I did. I screwed myself round in the chair, scratched my hat, knocked my left side to keep my heart still, felt in my vest pockets, to see if my boots were on, swallowed my head, poked my feet in my coat pockets, jumped over a chair, and says I, "ef I don't love you—yes, every heart, spade and diamond of you, all into mince meat, I hope you may drive my nose into the ground."
               Notwithstanding this startling declaration on my part, she took it amazingly cool, and says she, "does you?" It being the first time for a good while, that I had done any courting or love making, I had almost forgotten how the girls did act, so I thought things were all going right. However, I felt a little cooler, and did not say anything more about such warm subjects just then, but went on to talking of other things in general, nothing in particular.
               She and I went on to church together again, and things proceeded as they generally do under similar circumstances. Before getting further into affairs, allow me to tell you that her name was the same as her father's and mother's, only, she was named Fanny Droll and they were called Mr. and Mrs. Droll. She was remarkable for pretty black hair, teeth which shone in the dark like dogs eyes, a little more tallerishly-slender than common, and feet so small that it took no leather, hardly, to cover them. She was the daughter of an old farmer and his wife, could weave more cloth, spin more flax, raise more chickens, ride down more horses, lick more negroes, and do the best cooking of any gal east of the Rocky Mountains; she could milk more cows, make more butter, churn faster, find more hen's nests, keep the nicest garden, drop more corn, jump higher and out dance anybody that travels on two feet. The truth of the matter is, she was an extraordinary gal every way you could take her.
               While I think of it I had as well make it known to you also, that this same Fanny Droll had another beaux, who had been keeping company with her for several months, and would, perhaps, have been married to him, but her folks were opposed to the match and slighted him on every occasion. When I commenced keeping her company, her parents were in hopes that she would turn the other man off. His name was Dick Simple, and I did not like him, because he liked Miss Fanny Droll.
               He never ventured to go to the house of Mr. Droll after I commenced going with Miss Fanny, so I thought he was nearly out of the notion of her. Being encouraged by all parties, I thought I should certainly be a married man in a short time; I went every week regularly, sometimes twice a week, and if I got too bad off I went three times. Several times I felt like "popping the question," but when I got to thinking about it, I could not talk any, but sat there close to a beautiful girl saying nothing, in as eloquent terms as I was master of.
               "No, I thank ye," ses I, and then away went all my courage; we then would get to talking on something else, not so destructive to the feelings, keep it up awhile, and before I got into the notion to say anything more on the subject of marriage it was time for me to be off home.
               Several weeks had passed in this way, and still the question remained unpopped. Finally it was getting to be the last chance with me as you will see from the following conversation that took place between a young friend and myself:
               "I say, Fumble, where are you going? I have something to tell you."
               "Ah! no place; just riding round to see the country."
               "Yes, but I know better, though; you are going over to old Mr. Droll's to see Fanny. I've heard how things are going, so you needn't be trying to fool me."
               "Well, Bill, as long as you are a particular friend of mine I will own up: I was going over to see Miss Fanny, and if you'll promise never to tell it, I'll tell you something more."
               "You needn't be 'fraid of me telling anything, so out with it."
               "I'll tell you the plain truth:—I love that gal hard enough to take the skin off my face, and I think things are all right, but still I can't get to the point to save my life; my throat gets so dry I can hardly swallow, and I feel most uncommon strange, I can tell you."
               "Now look here, Fumble, if you don't bring matters to a close this day, you'll never get that gal, now mind what Bill tells you, for I saw her yesterday down at old Doctor Small's, with Dick Simple, and b'leve me, old fellow, she just leaned up to him like a fool to hot dumplings; now she did! Dick and her have been together a heap before you come back, and I think she loves him—perhaps would have him, only she knows that her father and mother would not give her anything; I am in a hurry now, and must go; but you recollect what this boy has told you, and don't be 'fraid to say what you please, for you know you have got as many good friends here as anybody. Good-bye; come over to our house to-morrow night and let me know how you get along."
               Here I was in a fix again! It was sufficient to give a man the dropsy to think of it. To be thus in love, and not have heart enough to ask a girl if she would marry, and besides that, I did not want her any way if she loved anybody else the least bit, even her mother. I got to thinking, and thought so loud that I heard myself, and here is what I thought:
               "Is it possible that I am again to become an object of sport for fools and old women, who have nothing else to do but run all over the neighborhood and tell tales? If so, I will not stay long in this part of the country long either. Why was it that I could not have asked her to marry me, instead of being like a negro, a fool, or a high-land terrapin, getting dry at the mouth, and panting for breath, as if I had been running a race? Oh, but how foolish I have acted! it, is now too late, I fear, to do anything; if I had asked her when I had such a good chance last Sunday night I might have got her. But let me think—if she does not love me more than that scoundrel, Simple, and more than everybody else, what use is there in me marrying her, even if I could get her? She might throw it up to me sometime and say that she never loved me, even when she married me. I will go on and see how she acts; if I don't get her, let me boar in mind that same old principle which has given me hope and courage in the darkest hours of my life—'All things are for the best,' and with the hope that all things will now terminate for my future happiness, I will go on as if nothing had crossed my path:"
               While I was thus engaged in thought, my horse had brought me in sight of Mr. Droll's house, and in a few moments I was at the side of Miss Fanny.
               She was all fixed to go to church, and after resting a short time we started to hear a celebrated Baptist preacher who had lately come into the neighborhood. I was, that day, riding a young horse, which had never been used much, and in fact you might say he was a mere colt, but a very nice little animal indeed. Before leaving home I had clubbed up his tail, plaited his mane and fore-top, curried him off nicely, and put on him a very showy saddle, and he looked in the best style. As we went on, he did as well as if he had been fifteen years old, kept right along by the side of Miss Fanny's horse, and acted as well as any horse could do.
               When we got to the meeting-house I took Miss Fanny's horse, went and hitched him and my colt together, and then walked up to the house with her; the house was very full, and we found considerable difficulty in getting a seat, but finally got one in the outskirts of the congregation. We had a fine sermon, the people became greatly excited, and the crowd did not break up until two or three o'clock in the afternoon. When we were dismissed, I offered Miss Fanny my arm, she took it, and we walked out to the blocks where the ladies were in the habit of getting on their horses.
               I left her at the block while I went for our horses; when I got out to the place where I had hitched them, how do you suppose I felt? I had to feel some time before I could tell whether I had any feelings at all or not! This young colt of mine had broke the bridle, got loose, and went to Miss Fanny's horse; he went up in all good faith, and made his dinner off of her saddle; he had gnawed it all to pieces, a bran spank new one it was, too, that cost twenty-five cool dollars, besides the riding skirt.
               If he had stopped at that, it would not have been so bad, on me at least, but after he had eat up Miss Fanny's saddle, he took a stroll around among the strangers, and after that he went to a big puddle-hole of mud and water, shook himself a few times, walked in and lay down. He had rolled over, and over, and over again in that mud till he was covered from head to tail with it; I could scarcely see where my saddle was, the mud had covered it up so completely.
               I thought two or three times of taking out my knife and cutting his throat, and then doing the same for my own gullet, but knowing that would not repair Miss Fanny's saddle, I concluded not to do it; and besides all other considerations, I did not wish to leave her there to go home alone. I was in the most horrid fix that "imagination could picture, or fancy, perhaps, conceive." What was I to do, what could I do? was the question! To think of getting on the colt with all that mud on him, even if I had been furnished with a clean saddle, would have been bad enough, but I did not have a saddle, blanket, or anything else. There I stood, doing nothing, and Miss Fanny waiting for me to come with her horse; people were getting on their horses and riding by me, while I was only standing there thinking what to do or how to do it.
               You may talk of scrapes, gentlemen, and you know I have been in scores of them in my life, but this scrape hurt my feelings worse than anything I have ever yet passed through.
               While I was standing there in the most miserable of fixes on record, an old negro came up, and ses he, "Massa, you am in a bad fix; I am sorry for you, and if you will take dis ole nigga's saddle, you are welcome to it; you can see it is a very ole wun; ole massa gave it to me long time go, but it's better than nun." If ever an ole darkey got next to the good side of my heart in this life it was then; I do not remember anything in the whole course of my mortal existence that so melted my feelings as that poor old negro's offer of his saddle.
               I thanked him, and asked him to put on the saddle for me; he did so, and also led the horses up to the blocks for me. When I reached Miss Fanny she looked like she was about three or four thirds crying about her saddle, and five or six thirds laughing to see my muddy colt with the old negro's saddle on him.
               I explained things to her as well as I could, offered many apologies, came near bellowing out like a great calf, uttered a few hoarse groans, wished I had rode the old roan mare instead of the colt, if she did look sorter slim, and then mounting our animals, we rode off.
               I had intended most solemnly to "pop the question" as we went on home that day, so that if she refused me I could whip up my colt, ride off, and leave her to go home by herself. How strange it is that a young man will have, does have, and can have, such a quadrangular-semi-coagulable-square-toed, abhorring dread of this small affair! I say "small affair," because now that I have passed through many fiery trials, and learned where the danger lies, I do not mind it any more than I would to brush my teeth with a steamboat, wear an elephant for a breast-pin, or drink a cup of tea made of dead negroes and toe nails.
               But having met with the misfortune of losing my saddle, and being surrounded by mud and sad reflections, I did not feel much like doing anything unless it was to go home, take a dose of cow's-horns and fence-rails, lock myself up in a cheese-box, and go off from the world in general, and women in particular, where I would no longer have to contend with trials, troubles, and all manner of mistakes.
               As we rode along everybody was looking and laughing at me as though I had no feelings whatever; I did not mean to let them know that I noticed their sport-making, so I rode on and said nothing to them. The road that we had to go was along a beautiful creek-bottom; on the left hand was a high fence, enclosing the fields of corn, tobacco, &c., on the right hand was a creek, on which had been built a number of mills.
               The colt that I was riding becoming tired of the load of mud which was on him, desired to take a bath, that he might clean himself; I thought he had as well go on home then, as long as we had got that far, and told him to march on. He sorter backed his ears a little, tucked his head, switched his tail, and began going backwards; I was fearing he would do something bad again, and ses I, "G'lang, you muddy dog, you;" then "kick, kick, thump, bim," I took him in the sides; "cluck, cluck, g'up here," but still he kept going right back, and in a few minutes he was right on the bank of the creek.
               I looked round to see if the bank was steep; I found it was not, for if it had been I would have jumped off the colt quick; not knowing how the animal might act if I let him go, I stuck on to him. He looked back himself to see, I suppose, whether the bank was steep, but finding it a gradual slant, he kept going, going, going back to get into the water, just like you know a colt will do before he has been rode much.
               In a very few moments he struck the water and waded in till it came over his back. It was in the mill-pond and knowing that there was a very muddy bottom to it, I was fearful the colt would get stuck fast, and perhaps drown us both himself and me. When he got in as far as he wanted to, he stopped and commenced drinking with as much composure as if he was in a clover field.
               I kicked, I clucked, I 'swaded, I coaxed, I hallooed, I whistled, I raised up in the stirrup's, I pulled the bridle reins, I got him by the ears, and I just did every thing that a poor wretch possibly could do, but still the colt stood in the same place, and every twice in a while he would try to kick up, but failing in this, "whea, whea" he would go, trying to neigh like a horse, and if you don't think I was mad under these circumstances, I don't think you are all reasonable people, for I think it would have made any man mad that lives, and even if he was dead it would be apt to rise his temper slightly, or wake him up the second time.
               
               While I was in this fix I had, of course left Miss Fanny,—I could'nt help it either, standing in the road waiting for me; she looked mighty plagued and shamed, but I was doing the best I could, and that was all I could do, so I could'nt help it. The people were passing along going from Church, and when they came to the place where I was, they stopped, to see what would be the result.
               I suppose I had been trying to get that colt out of there a half an hour,—it has been so long though and I was so mad I can't recollect exactly, when I looked down the road, saw Dick Simple coming along laughing as loud as he could bawl, I knew he was laughing at me, and did'nt I feel worse then than ever? but what could I do?
               He leant back on his horse and just roared out, when he got opposite to where I was, looked over at me with an air of contempt, asked me if I did'nt want some help bristled up by the side of Miss Fanny, said a few soft words to her, and off they rode together! This added a new supply of misery to my already-existing unhappiness, which was more than I could comfortably bear, I quit making any attempts to get away from the mill-pond, for I thought I had as well die there as any where else, and cast my eyes in the direction of the man who had gone off with my sweetheart.
               They were riding along enjoying themselves as freely as if I had been on dry land, not seeming to even recollect that I was in the pond of water on the colt's back, unable to get away. In this state of forgetfulness, having forgotten whether I was living or not, I let the bridle reins fall, and was sitting there looking as much like an old stump as anything else, and all of a sudden the colt give a sort of a "snicker," surged a few times, got his feet out of the mud, and out he went from the pond.
               As he jumped he threw me off my balance, which had the effect of precipitating me into the water, head downwards. When I got out on the land I saw the colt going as hard as he was able to, up the road, making tracks for home, while I was standing there wiping the mud out of my eyes and off of my face.
               Old Billy Blackhead, who was going on from Church, rode up and told me that if I would ride behind him he would take me on home; I was glad of the chance and went on with him, both of us riding the same horse. My thoughts were principally upon the young lady who had gone home, accompanied by that notorious rascal, Dick Simple, I saw that I was in another "love scrape" and what would be its termination I could not tell, but I could tell that I was as mad as I ever had been in life.
               After cleaning off the mud that was still sticking to me I thought of going right over to see Miss Fanny, but at last concluded to wait until morning and take it coolly. I reasoned the case in my own mind for some time, to see what I could make of it. "Can it be that she went off with that man, merely to have company home, thinking I would not get out of the water again? I know it looked bad to see her saddle all ruined by that colt gnawing of it, and the mud on the colt as well as his going in the water and standing there was enough to make her go off and leave me, there were so many people going along the road she felt very bad, but after all that she might have said something to me before leaving, and then to think of her going along with that rascal whom I hate worse than anybody living; yes, and she never so much as looked back to see whether I got out or what became of me. She knows too, that her folks don't want her to go with Dick Simple, they hate him like a rattlesnake, she knows that they like me and would be pleased for her and me to marry, why then would she do so? I never saw any man in my life that met with half the trouble I do; what can be the cause of it! I am certain I don't do any thing bad; but let things be good, bad, better, or indifferent I will go in the morning and have the matter ter settled one way or another; no use trying to live this way.
               I had rather a bad night of it, being troubled with dreams of greatest happiness and realities of perfect misery; but the night of the following day, or something else brought a return of natural feelings. At ten o'clock in the morning, a little while before dinner time in the forenoon, I started to see Miss Fanny again, hoping that all things would be put right when she and I got together once more.
               I did not ride very fast, consequently it was past eleven o'clock when I got to Mr. Droll's I went in as usual, and found the old folks at home, but nothing was to be seen of Miss Fanny; I did not want to ask where she was, but still I should have liked mighty well to have seen her.
               Mr. Droll met me at the door, in company with his wife, and a very sad, heart-broken look; not seeing Miss Fanny I did not know but that she was either dead or very sick, this made me feel like forgiving her for the way she had done on the previous day, thinking that she was dreadful sorry for treating me so very unkindly.
               I waited for some time for Mr. Droll or his wife to say something, but they kept looking down to the ground as if something made them feel very sorry. I could stand it no longer, for I felt horrible, and says I to Mr. Droll, "how is all the folks?"
               "Ah! Mr. Fumble we have had a great accident in our family, and I believe it will run me crazy, oh me! I feel so bad."
               "What on earth is the matter for mercy sake?" said I, and my heart went thump, thump, bim, bim, against my ribs you never heard the like to it.
               "Ah! it is so bad I am sorry to tell you?" "But do tell me, is any body sick, or killed, or is it Miss Fanny who is in danger, the dear young lady, I hope nothing has happened her!"
               "Yes it is Fanny; she ran away and married Dick Simple last night, and you know we did not like him, and"——
               "This is a nice day Mr. Droll," says I, changing the subject, I did not wish to hear any more about it. I got my horse, said good evening and left for home."
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               GRUB, GHOSTS AND GAMMON.
               Fumble has again been run into sadly; who would not have felt amazingly miserable under the circumstances? If it had been the first attempt, some people would think it endurable, but after so many troubles in nearly the same way, and to a like extent, previously, it was almost enough to make a man "pull hemp" and almost choke himself into another world. Fudge says that after the first shock had passed over him he thought he would go and spend the night with an old friend of his where there lived one or two young ladies that were very good looking. With your consent we will stay all night with Fumble and his friends, or at least till bedtime. Listen for a few moments, Fumble must tell what happened:
               "In spite of all my efforts to the contrary, Fanny would stick to my immagination like "death to a sick negro," or a "sick kitten to a hot-brick." To rid myself of trouble as much as possible, I decided to go that night and stay at old Billy Jones's as I had been promising for some time to spend a night with him and his girls. They are nice, clever folks too I can tell you.
               Well, night found me at old Billy's and I found Billy and family all at home, besides two or three of his neighbors, the widow Luck among the number.
               After supper—they know how to cook at that house—they had plenty of good ham and eggs, hot biscuit and all sorts of things, they didn't know I was coming neither—I say after supper all of us got over to one side of the room and commenced talking. Jones is a terrible man to ask a fellow questions, that is one reason why I didn't go over sooner and he asked me about every place I had been to in my life, and more too by half. Some body got to talking about "ghosts" and before long all the house was interested in the subject and me besides; old Mr. Dods was the first one that led off, and now won't you listen to him? he is honest in what he says, understand you that:
               "I was born in the State of Maryland, and received a tolerably good education; my father had plenty of cash, and lived in style according; he often occupied a long winter's evening in relating things he had seen when he was traveling, which caused me to have a great desire to see much more of world than I possibly could have done if I remained in my own native State, therefore I told him when I was some one-and-twenty, that I wished to take a trip to Tennessee, a state which was much talked of in those days.
               He readily consented, and after a little preparation I set out on my journey on horseback. It was my first attempt at traveling, and it may well be supposed, that I felt exceedingly lonesome as I went along, day after day without seeing any one with whom I could talk—everything was strange and lonely.
               For the first four or five days I got on remarkably well, and I was flattering myself that I should have a very agreeable time of it. On the afternoon of the seventh day after I started, I was going along as usual, thinking of the many pleasures of by-gone-days, and hoping for brightness in the future, when I observed a cloud rising in the west, that threatened a storm in a short time.
               The sun was now about one hour high as near as I could reckon, and I did not know how far it was to the nearest house; I had a good overcoat, umbrella and all other traveling accoutrements which it was customary to take on horseback, but I knew these would afford me but poor protection during a violent storm, for the timber was quite thick on each side of the road which might fall on me at any moment during a gale.
               Not knowing what else to do, I put spurs to my horse hoping to reach some human habitation before the angry cloud met me; poor animal! how he tried to get along! but he was so tired that he made but little progress. It was then that I thought of the many tales related by my father while sitting near a comfortable fire, but oh! how very different to hear them talked of, and to experience what I did at that moment! and if you ever get into such a difficulty, my friends, you will know that this old man is telling you the hard truth.
               My horse seemed to feel for my situation, but could do nothing more than his best, that is all we can expect from man or beast. In the course of half an hour, I was made to feel glad by seeing a short distance ahead of me a fine looking farm and comfortable, nice looking dwelling. I got to the house just as the rain began to fall; stopped and asked if I could have protection; they told me to get down; I did so, and after running my horse under a shelter, I took my luggage and went in.
               Although the storm was quite severe, I did not feel it much, being, as I was, well protected. By the time it had subsided it was nearly dark, and I asked if I could get to stay all night? The landlord told me he would be very glad to accommodate me if he could, but that he had as many persons who had stopped before me, as he could make room for. I inquired how far it was to the next house? he said it was five miles. It seemed as if I could not bear the thought of going five miles in the dark in a strange country, all alone as I was then, and begged him to make room for me, in some way, if possible. I told him I was willing to sleep on the floor, or sit up all night rather than run the risk of finding my way to the next house.
               He then told me that he would be honest, and if anything went wrong I must not blame him; I requested that he would proceed, not knowing what he was going to tell. He said, "there is one room in my house in which no one can sleep, owing to the fact that it is haunted; every night there is a ghost, or something else whatever it may be, that comes to the room and opens the door in spite of every attempt which may be made to keep it shut; what is the cause of this I am unable to say, but laying all things aside, I am constrained to say to you this is the only room I can furnish you lodging in; we do not pretend to use it for anything only a lumber room, but if you see fit to try and spend the night in it, you can do it, I will furnish you with a bed on the floor, and keep a light burning all night if you wish it, so that you can see any ghosts if they appear; but you may be certain of one thing; the door you cannot keep shut."
               This was as bad, or perhaps worse than going on to the next house in the dark, but I chose to stay and spend the night in the "haunted chamber; I had often heard of such things as ghosts but could not believe in them, and did not therefore, think I would be injured in any way." I told the gentleman as it was a very bad night, and being a stranger, I would prefer staying in that room to going on to the next house; and had my saddle-bags, and other things taken into the much-dreaded apartment.
               After seeing that my horse was cared for, I asked for a light, requested the landlord to wake me early in the morning, and went to my room, which was the dread, not only of the owner of the house, but his neighbors, and the traveling public.
               Now, this room was on the first floor, and was about ten by fourteen feet in size; there was a fire-place, two doors, and one window to it, and the house was simply a frame building, weather-boarded, and ceiled with plank, I went in, and the first thing I did was to examine every part of it minutely, that I might be better satisfied during the night. There was nothing about it which was in the least peculiar, and I concluded the good people were sadly mistaken, concerning the ghost. The door which I was told could not be kept closed, was the one next to the chimney; the other door, it was said, could be fastened without any trouble, and it would stay so. The landlord, who had accompanied me to the room, told me not to be afraid of any injury, for no one had ever been hurt in there, but the trouble was to keep the door from flying open.
               When he had bid me good night, I began to fear that I had got into a foul crowd, and instead of spirits opening the door, it was men who made it a business of robbing travelers, but who told this ghost tale to make the travelers go to sleep with the door open.
               I resolved to disappoint them one time if they attempted robbing me that night, and accordingly got out, my pistol and also a large knife, both of which, I had started from home with for the satisfaction of my friends. Not wishing to make any noise before the other persons in the house had gone to bed, I did not shut the door until after ten o'clock.
               Having fixed my bed on the floor before the fire, I placed my weapons of defence under my pillow, I went to the door and shut it; to my utter astonishment it remained closed just as any other door would. I stood by it for a few moments, and as it did not move I went to the bed and laid down. At the very moment that I went to lay down, what should I hear but the door-shutter, which flew open and struck against the wall with considerable force. Without saying a word, or allowing myself to become alarmed, I went again and shut it; as I reached the bed to lay down again, "slam," went the door-shutter against the wall as it had done before! The third time I shut it and again it flew open.
               
               I began to feel extremely uneasy, but recollected that the old man had said, nothing would harm me, I thought I would make another attempt. Previous to this time I had only latched the door, but not knowing whether it would be opened from without, I looked around and found the key, with which I locked it.
               I now felt confident that I should be left at ease for the remainder of the night, but had scarcely reached the bed before the door-shutter slamed against the wall again as hard as ever. I, of course, calculated that the lock was broke in pieces, or else how could the door get open? but on examining, I found the lock was not hurt in any way, but was as sound as when I left it fastened. I went outside of the door, for the purpose of looking around the premises, and I could not see any person; I then examined the lock to see if there was not a wire or something else by which it could be unfastened, but it was all to no purpose, I could find nothing of the kind.
               I locked the door to see if it would not stay shut; as I was about lying down on the bed, the same thing occurred as had been from the first. I let it remain open for some time and pretended to be asleep, to see if any one would attempt to enter the room, but I was mistaken again, for no one approached. For my life, I could not see into the matter; I did not know what to do, but at last decided that I would try another plan; I shut the door, locked it fast, and then got every chair, stool, oven, pot, saddle, pail, bucket, and in fact every heavy thing I could find, and put them against the door in a pile, thinking if the door came open, then there would be a grand "smash up" with trumpery in the room.
               I felt quite certain that the door would keep in its place with all this force against it, consoled myself by thinking how it would shame the old landlord next morning, and once more went to bed, hoping to get a little rest for I was exceedingly tired.
               Everything remained in its place until I struck the bed, when over came pots, pails, saddles, and the whole pile of lumber, some of them being thrown over my bed with great force, scarcely missing my noggin, and slam, the shutter went against the wall as usual! What seemed still more astonishing, was that every article was driven back precisely to the same spot from which it had been taken, and the door unlocked as before. I expected that some of the things which I had piled against the door would be broken, from the force with which they had been driven away, but not one of them was injured in the least; in fact one could not have told that anything had been moved, so precisely was everything done. Of all the terrified mortals you ever saw, I suppose, I was the worst; I did not know what to do, which way to turn, or where I had got to. I studied for a few moments, got pretty mad at such conduct, and resolved to try another plan; should it fail, I intended to let the door alone, lest I should arise next morning and find myself in a different lattitude.
               I got the door locked again, and started back towards the bed, for the purpose of taking it and laying it against the door, but no sooner had I laid hands on it than the door flew open. This only made me a little more angry than before, so I did not stop but took up the bed, and carried it close to the door, then I laid it down; I then shut the door and locked it, next I held the door with one hand while I pulled the bed up with the other; when I had got this much accomplished, I thought myself in a fair way to come off conqueror, for I did not suppose that the door would come open while I was minding it.
               Having fixed my bed and locked the door, I stretched myself out with the hope of keeping every thing safe; by the time I had got straightened out and the covering over me, I felt a slight trembling motion under the bed, and the first thing I knew, I found myself on the other side of the room, with my feet hard against the ceiling, and at the same moment ment I heard the door fly open, making its usual noise as it struck with great force against the wall.
               The only resentment that I offered after this, was merely to set up, scratch my head a little, and wished I was where I had started from, a few days before.
               Thus it was that every plan failed, and I found I could not get any sleep that night, unless I did so with the door open, which I felt unwilling to do, as I did not feel very comfortable by this time. I gave up trying to sleep, and thought I would sit down by the fire, to make out the best I could, I thought I had rather sit up by the fire in a chair, without sleep, than to lie down and sleep with the door open; and every time I had attempted to lie down, it had come open. I went and fastened it, thinking I would sit up the remainder of the night, which was not long, for the night was far spent.
               What was my surprise to find that just as I went to sit down in the chair, the door flew open again! Again and again I tried it, but to no purpose. As the last resort, I decided to stand with my back against it until daylight. This seemed to work very well, until I got so tired out that I fell asleep on my feet; as soon as this was the case, I was thrown more than half across the room, and again the door was open.
               I thought I would try and keep awake after that, but once in a while I would get to sleep, and then I was sent with great velocity across the room as in the first instance, and the door shutter fell back with the same rattling sound.
               I kept on in this way until daylight, and when the bright sun rose on that morning, it found me standing with my back against that door, trying to keep it shut. The landlord came at that time for the purpose of waking me, and asked how I had spent the night. I told him I had spent it a little of the hardest of any I ever had spent in my life, and hoped I might never see another such.
               Feeling considerably interested in the matter I asked the old gentleman if the thing could be accounted for in any way? He said that a few years before, a man had been killed in that room, and, as was supposed had been carried out at the door by the chimney; he was a traveler, and no one ever knew anything of his history, only that he stopped at the house on that night and was never heard of afterwards. His horse was found in the landlord's possession, and blood was seen in that room, but still he had never been prosecuted; and after that the door had never been known to stay shut any longer than when some person stood by it; consequently, he left the house and moved out of the country.
               This was all the information he could give me, and after breakfast, amid the confusion, and feeling almost worn out from fatigue, I mounted my horse and went on my "journey hoping never to be caught in another scrape."
               After the old man Dod got through giving his experience, every body in the house looked mighty serious, drawed a few long breaths, imagined they could hear strange sounds, and all hands were busy saying nothing. In a few moments the Widow Luck broke silence by relating the following, and as she is a woman of truth you must take her history for what it is worth: "I never have been a believer in ghosts in any way, but I can tell you of a little circumstance that happened, which made a great impression on my mind, so much so I fear I never shall forget it as long as I live.
               When I was about eighteen years of age, I was married to Mr. Luck, or rather I should say that he came to see me very often before that, and after he and I concluded to get married we spoke to the old folks on the subject, and they said we might do what we pleased; so we pleased to have the ceremony said. I thought a heap of my husband—he loved me first though—and after we got settled to ourselves, and after all the things had been given us to keep house with, which was not very much, and I thought we ought to have had more, why it was I could not tell, but it seemed to me as if my husband did not think half as much of me as he did before we were married.
               Instead of screwing his mouth up into all sorts of shapes, trying to talk to me, he would sit off in one corner, and not speak to me the whole evening.
               There was another thing, too, that I looked at, and I think any woman would have done the same thing or something like it, that was this—before we were married he never came to see me scarcely, but what he brought some nice little thing or other to give me; but as soon as we married he forgot all such things as that; I did not say anything, but I felt bad about it, indeed I did. When he was coming to see me he never could talk half good enough to me, but no sooner married than he talked as though I had agreed to do everything when we were standing before the minister, but I denied it; he asked me to do many things which I thought he might easily have done himself, but still I wanted to do the best I could and managed to get along.
               At last he got to asking me to do so many things, that I thought I could not stand it, so I told him I was not very stout any way, and as mother always said I would die of a "decline," I thought I ought to be a little careful of my health; all that he said was, "you ought to have told me that before!" I did not like it still I did not say anything more, but I felt worse than usual, certain.
               Well, I am going a long ways off to tell a short story, but never mind, we have time enough, and you all have nothing to do, so I will go on. You see things went along this way for a good while, gradually growing more and more like you generally see married folks—that is, him and I talked louder and louder, longer and longer, until both of us would get tired, and then we said nothing more until we began next time, and not then unless we felt like it.
               Several years passed, and still we lived together on the same farm; we got along quite well, for I got so as I could talk as fast as he could, and then he said much less to me than he did when we first began our quarrels, for he said he did hate to have me commence, I made such a noise; he told me several times, that if he had known I could talk so much, he never would have married me, but it was too late then; this made one feel powerful bad, and I could not help crying; then I would rally and talk particularly loud and angry as a black cloud, but it all did no good, for he was getting used to it, and oh me! how he did fret me!
               There were many other things that caused him and I to get mad and quarrel, but we got along very well after all—nobody can say but what we did I am sure. I thought a great deal of my folks, and he was certain that there was no one like his people, so there we had it again. At last he said we had better move away out of the neighborhood, and then there would be no grumbling on either side; I was much opposed to moving, for I had often heard it said, that if people got to moving about from place to place, they do no good.
               However nothing else would do, so he sold all the things which could not conveniently be moved; preparations were made for us to go to our new home, some distance out of the neighborhood, and after a hasty farewell we were soon on the road leading to the place of our destination.
               On our arrival we had all the things taken out of the wagons, and before long began to feel like we were at home once more. About the last thing taken into the house from the wagons was a broom, which some one had, put in before we started; I can't say that I felt much troubled in consequence of knowing we bad moved a broom, but still it bore on my mind for several days quite heavily. I had often heard my mother say that it was bad luck to move a broom, and I could not help thinking about it.
               
               I tried to find out who had been the cause of moving it, but it was in vain; I would have felt much better, had I found out that, for then I could lay the blame on them if we had any bad luck. I spoke to my husband about it, and told him what I had heard people say, but he only laughed at me, and said that I was worse than any old haunted woman. I told him that he had better not brag too much, for something might turn up before long, and then he would feel bad for making fun of such things.
               Six weeks passed before anything took place, which made me think that the sign would work right. At the end of that time it fell to my luck to witness something which makes me tremble to think of it, even now; one night about twelve o'clock, when my husband and me were both lying in bed awake, (which was something very unusual,) I heard the strangest noise that ever fell on mortal ear, and saw-things which made my very hair curl up into knots. It was mighty strange, I scarcely know how to describe it.—that noise that I heard, but I will try.
               You know what a shawl is, of course? well, immagine a great large shawl with about two-thousand metal-buttons sewed to it, and think what a noise such a thing would make when it fell on the floor, and was dragged all over the floor as fast as any body could pull it! Yes, it went just that way, as near as I could describe it, and not only once, but three or four times in less than five minutes. Immediately after that I saw something rolling and tumbling on the floor, (and recollect you, the night was dark, I could not see my hand before me,) with large red looking spots on it, mixed with black, green, and all sorts of colors. It was larger than a full grown horse, but it had neither head, tail or feet, yet I could see it poke out its tongue more than three feet! It had horns about halfway of—what I took to be its back—and right on top of each horn sat a litile child with a cat in its arms!
               Although it kept moving from place to place, these horns staid on top all the time—oh me! only think how I felt! The next thing it did was to roll up and down the chimney, up the stairs, the sides of the house, under the bed, through the floor, and in every way did it roll!
               At last something began to rattle like the buttons and shawl again, I saw a thick smoke rising, the floor gave way, and down the thing went. This was the last we saw of it that night. Strange as it may seem to you, I tell you it is a fact, that neither my husband or myself spoke a word, or moved an inch during the whole time these things were going on, but then we both became greatly alarmed, so much that neither of us spoke for more than a quarter of an hour, but lay there trembling and crying like children in a storm.
               I became quiet first, and spoke to my husband, telling him not to be alarmed as everything was gone. While talking to him though, I thought of the broom, which had been moved as I before told you, so I told him of it, reminding him of the fact that it was bad luck to move a broom when a family moves; he did not say much, but I could tell he believed there was something in it, for he groaned heavily.
               After many sad thoughts, a long talk, and great apprehensions for our future welfare and happiness, we went to sleep, hoping never again to be troubled with anything of the kind. Next day, him and I became more bold by daylight, said we certainly had been mistaken in some way. He laughed it off, and said he would think nothing more of it, and I came to about the same conclusion, lest the neighbors should think we were a strange lot of new comers.
               Next night we slept very well until the hour of twelve; at that time both of us waked up, and to our utter astonishment we saw and heard the very same things over again, as on the night previous, at the same hour! We were more alarmed than when we first beheld the strange thing, and did not sleep any more that night.
               
               Next day we examined the floor, the chimney, and every other thing about the house, but could not see any difference in them, so we tried to laugh the thing off again the best we could. The following night we went to bed early, as we were quite tired out; we slept sound enough until a little before twelve o'clock, when we awoke as on the two nights previous, and had to witness the same dreadful sights, and hear the same strange sounds; they continued some time longer than they had done before, and broke up by giving a sound on something that went just like ringing a large bell; the sound was long, sad and mournful, and as it died away the sight sunk into the floor enveloped in clouds of thick smoke!
               Our fears were increased tenfold, as we lay there almost lifeless, fearing to move or speak, and even shuddered to hear each other breathe. After more than an hour we got up, procured a light, and sat up until daylight. We felt horribly bad all the day after, and were unwilling to lie down lest we might again wake up to find ourselves tormented as we had been for three successive nights.
               We sat up all the next night, but did not hear or see anything; after that we were never troubled with the ghosts, spirits, or whatever they may be called, and consoled ourselves that we would be free from them afterwards. Every feeling of fear passed away, and we were fast forgetting what we had seen, when my poor husband took very sick one night at the hour of twelve. I did all I could for him, sent for a doctor, and oh, mercy! you know the rest, I need not tell you; it is bad enough.
               Three weeks precisely from the time we first saw them sights, my husband breathed his last, dear man, a little before twelve o'clock at night, and left me a widow! I fear I shall never have another such a husband! While his friends were standing round his dying bed, though they knew nothing of them awful things we saw, I was thinking of it. But it's all past and gone now, and I am still a widow, for I wont marry that brick-mason, and I hope Luck, poor man, is in a better world than this, but I shall always think there was something strange about the broom and his death!'
               "After the widow got through all hands felt about bad enough to go to bed, and hush talking, and so we did, but I did not get over them ghost-tales for two months after, and hope I may never hear another, I wish I hadn't told these now, for I'll be dreaming of ghost's for a Coon's age."
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               A STROLL INTO A SOAP BARREL.
               It is now time that we hear something more from Fudge about his feelings towards the fair sex. Perhaps he has recovered a little, and if so, we will venture the assertion that he is in for another trial; a strange fellow he is, and does things in a Fumbling manner sometimes, but let us hear what he has to say for himself.—"Amid the many conflicting scenes through which I have already passed, I am still in the land of the living, though you will readily allow that the thermometer of my perception, and director of my hopes have ranged from a few degrees below the kissing-point, to as high as the scale has yet run.
               How many men are there in the world who would have given up in superanuated—cadavorous dispair, after the several hard trials, and many times more misfortunes, including the loss of several suits of clothes, a negro's saddle, my own, and some two or three others, besides the destruction of numerous dogs, fences, and other quadrupeds, reptiles, feathered songsters and, other things beyond mention.
               But I did not give up yet; I was rather becoming used to it than otherwise, and was getting ambitious to try my hand a little longer, a little louder, a lit tle more of it, and still more powerfully; the fair ones had trifled with my feelings as long as it was right they should do, and now it was my time. I made a firm resolve never to let myself fall in love with another "woman being," till I had every reason to think they were nearly dead in love with me.
               The last scrape which I had gotten into was a "cooler" for my sympathies, as well as for my appetite and my happiness generally, so I determined to seek my vengeance on the head of "woman!"
               With feelings like these, it did not require very long for me to find a victim; and now reader, commences a little of the career of Fumble that has terminated in what is now offered to the world telling the condition of mankind.
               Several months after the termination of the case which was previously described, I was walking one morning from a friend's house to the little village, which was near, to buy some articles for replenishing my stock of clothes; a young man went with me, merely for the sake of company, and it would be rude for me to say I did not enjoy his society on that, as well as on all other occasions, when we were thrown together. We went into the first store we came to and took a seat; after waiting for a short time enquiring the price of things, we started out to go to another store, hoping to be better tended. As we were passing the corner of the store I accidentally looked over into the yard and what should I see but one of the most beautiful girls I thought I had ever seen, she was picking some flowers, and as she stood half hid in the rose bushes and honey-suckle's I thought she looked quite romantic. Her hair, which was of a dark brown, hung in ringlets all over her face, around her ears, and about her eyes, and they looked beautiful as she threw her head around, looking at one object and another; her form was tidy, also, and her movements graceful.
               As soon as I saw her I spoke to my young friend, pointing her out to him, and asked him at the same time if he was acquainted with her; he said he was not, that she had very lately come to the village to live with some relations, but being acquainted with them he could soon find out all about her. I told him that I should like very much to get acquainted with her, for I was greatly pleased with her appearance She observed me looking at her, so earnestly, and, after blushing slightly, she turned her head in a different direction; we then passed on.
               My young friend seemed to forget that he had seen her, for no sooner had we passed on, than he ceased to talk about her, or make mention of her in any way; he was engaged with his own thoughts, and I was engaged with mine; what his thoughts were I am unable to say, but here's what I was thinking.
               "Yes, my sweet looking creature, you seem to look very innocent, pretty, and interesting, I wonder if you would not break your heart for any body else's, if you got the chance! I am thinking you would, but you'll never get a pull on me like some of the rest of the fair ones have done; I'll watch that, but if I don't make a start on you, then say that I can't tell the truth, nor stand up to it neither; I will soon have you thinking of me and wishing you had never known me. I have now suffered more than my share from your sex and before I die I shall make up for part if not all of my lost time! yes, I will seek my vengeance on you first, it may serve as a warning to others who are only waiting for an opportunity to make some young and innocent man miserable."
               We walked on to the next store without anything more being said between us concerning the young lady. While we were sitting in the store some one got to speaking of a young lady that had just come to the village from another part of the state to see her friends, and was going to spend some time with them; many expressed their opinion as to her beauty; some thinking that she was very pretty, while others did not agree that she was, but I said nothing on the subject, believing that it was best not to let any of them know that I was thinking of her.
               
               After purchasing what few little things we wanted we started on back home; as we went on I spoke of the young lady again, and my young friend agreed that I should have an introduction to her very soon, at the same time expressing a hope that I might succeed in winning her affections, if it was my desire to do so. A few days after this there was an an election held in the village for electing a man to the office of the Justice of Peace for the district. On occasions like these there is a great crowd that collects, and constitutes what is termed a "big day." On the day to which I refer now, I went to the village, more out of curiosity than anything else, except a desire to see that young lady.
               In going along up the street I saw her sitting in the house of her relatives apparently in a very happy mood; soon after seeing her I found my young friend, the gentleman who promised that I should have an introduction to her. I told him it was as good time then as we would ever get; he seconded the motion and in we went to see her. He was not acquainted with her himself, but knew that if we went in we would both be made acquainted with her; as we went in he was in front, consequently he was introduced first, then it came to me.
               "Miss Eliza Jacks, Mr. Fumble," said some one present, and as they said it I bowed down very low and tried to look as well as I could. We sat down, commenced talking, and going on, and before we had been there an hour we all seemed as well acquainted as if we had known each other for ten years. After remaining there for some length of time enjoying ourselves with the young lady and her friends we retreated, and I can inform you in good earnest that I was highly pleased.
               It was only about a mile from where I was living to the village, so that I walk there any time. Notwithstanding my former susceptibility I now stood resolved not to suffer myself to become attached to womankind again until I found out their sentiments; if I learned that they loved me in reality, I then could consider what claims they had on me, and if they were strong enough I would give way to the tender passion; if not I would quit their society and try another.
               I called in a few days again to see Miss Eliza Jacks, I found her alone, sitting by the window fronting the street; when she saw me open the gate to come in, she knew I was coming to see her, and could not avoid showing symptoms of flutterability in the cardiac region. She turned her head away at first, but soon turned it back again to look at me; by that time I was at the door, she arose pointed me to a seat and inquired after my health.
               Both of us were at a loss to know what to say, but after resting a while I got my mouth in motion; from that she got hers in working order and things went very well. I staid two or three hours, that is, till I got about out of talk, and after telling Miss Eliza that I would come to see her again soon, I left. When I observed that she was looking after me, as if she took some interest in my visits, at least I construed it in that way, which made it all the same to me.
               My next visit was on Sunday evening, some five or six days after; on this third visit I intended to commence making a little progress, for unless I did I knew that I would never take out much revenge on woman. There was one or two churches in the village, and I asked the young lady if she would to go and hear a sermon? She consented, which I thought looked decidedly favorable.
               We went over to church, listened to the minister with much attention, looked at each other very often, and then returned home; as we were going back I took a notion quite suddenly, to give her a good plain chat, says I to her, "Miss Eliza, I beg that you will pardon me if I am too hasty in my declarations of admiration for you, but it is irresistible; a few weeks ago I was walking along the street with a young friend, when we saw you plucking some flowers in the yard; this was the first time I ever saw you, and it was then that your sweet face, your graceful form and commanding appearance, seized upon the tenderest feelings of my heart, so much so that I solicited an introduction which favor was granted to the great satisfaction of my inmost soul." We had now got to the door, she asked me in and after being seated I went on,
               "I have, dear lady, only been in your society twice before this, and you are so much after my own heart that I wish, before getting deeper into matters, to know if I can have the privilege of coming to see you?"
               I never had summoned up as much courage, and acted as calmly before in my life, and I suppose the reason was, that on this occasion I was making declarations as false as they were hasty. When I asked her if I could have the privilege of visiting her, she was as calm and collected as myself, and, with great firmness, said:
               "I think, sir, that our acquaintance is too limited to grant such an extensive privilege as you seem to desire; if you see fit to call on me, I will be glad to see you, but do not understand me as agreeing to accept your company to the exclusion of all others."
               I thought that I had got hold of one of the hardest cases in the country, when she talked this way, for I did not, by any means, expect her to refuse seeing other gentlemen, on account of my going to see her; what I wanted to know was, whether I could have the privilege of calling on her or not; this she had granted in her answer, by saying she would be glad to see me at any time, and that was all I could claim; but still I thought it a pretty cool way of speaking to a gentleman when he was doing his best to make her believe he loved her. However, I was only stimulated the more by the course she took, and made up my mind at once to do my level best on her affections; I had now, as before remarked, become hardened, and was ready for any kind of a game to reek my revenge on the underpart of the civilized world. Acts of desperation were my hopeful weapons, and if ever used at all, I intended to use them with a heavy and fatal blow.
               I desisted from making further declarations of love that night, lest she might suspect downright hypocrisy, but talked on subjects of a general nature until late bed time; I then took her by the hand to tell her good night, and in doing so ventured to press it a little, to see how she would take it; she did not make any to do about it, and in this state of good understanding we parted for the evening.
               Owing to some engagements, I did not see her again for a week or two; I was very anxious to be with her, but the old saying of "business before pleasure," was brought to bear on the case, which had sufficient influence to make me follow the maxim. When those little business matters had been attended to, I went one evening just before dark, and what should I see but a tall, slim, swarthy, ugly, crooked necked, hump shouldered fellow sitting within two feet of her, talking as hard as he could rip, and she listening to him attentively. I hardly knew where to go, or how to act, but was relieved to some extent by her getting up and telling me to have a seat. Thus we all sat like so many blocks of wood, looking first one way and then another, not venturing to say the first word.
               It is a vastly awkward fix to be in my friends, let me tell you, if you have never tried it; one young woman sitting alone in one corner, one young man in another, thinking what to do and wishing he was out of the scrape; another young man looking on and occasionally venturing to look across the room, studying what to say, but finishes by saying nothing.
               Well, there we were, I looked, the other man looked, Eliza looked, we all looked, and were looking at nothing all the time. I did not want to go, the other man did not want to go, and which of us the young lady wanted to stay, or whether she wanted either to stay, was something I could not tell, neither did I know whether he could tell or not.
               Thus it was that a full grown silence reigned for half an hour; I was the first one to make a noise, which I did by addressing myself to Eliza; I do not now remember what I said, but anyhow, as soon as I began to talk the other man put in his jaw and took the words right out of my mouth. Then there was another silence for a short time; again I started to talk, and don't you think that notorious rascal pitched in again as though he was doing all the talking? I was getting worked up pretty high, so I quit saying anything and thought to myself that I would pay him up for his smartness before twelve months.
               While I was sitting there thinking what course to pursue, he raised his thermometer, and says he to her:
               "Miss 'Liza, don't you want to walk out into the garden?"
               "Now comes the trying point," thinks I, "and if she goes out into the garden with that fellow I will leave here very quick." I was soon relieved from meditation on that point, for she remarked to him, "that it would look rude and uncivil for her to get up and leave Mr. Fumble in the house, to take a walk with another gentleman, unless she was under some obligation to said gentleman, which, she prided herself, was not the case."
               Don't you reckon now, that I felt good at that time? Ah! I guess I did, so would any body under similar weights and measures. The fellow raised himself straight up from there and says he, "good bye!" The compliment was returned, and with the exception of a cat, a few chairs, &c., Miss Eliza and I were left alone. I looked at her as pleasing and good natured as I could, and says I, "you are the right sort of a girl for me, I like to see your spunk." She smiled, looked at me, and said she was much obliged for my good opinion of her. When she said that I took my chair, sat it close by the side of her's, looked around to see if any one was watching, and seeing there was not, I sat down and commenced talking to her in language such as I never had been able to use before.
               I felt mean to think of acting so deceitful, but that feeling soon evaporated when I recollected the mill pond, the muddy saddle, and run-away match, conjoined with other things, a peculiar description of which you have heard me tell before.
               Being so comfortably seated, I thought I had as well "pop the question" that night as any other time and intended doing so, but just as I was preparing the way for it, we observed a light approaching; seeing which, she remarked that we had better get a little further apart; I thought it right myself, and acted in accordance with her wishes.
               The light was brought in by some one of the family, and put on the candle stand; I would not have stood back for this alone, but in addition to this, two or three persons seated themselves on the porch in such a position that they could look at our movements; I suppose they thought I did not see them, but fortunately I did, and was thus warned to keep my distance while they were there. I expected that I could tire them out, drive them to bed, and then have time to say what I wished before going home, but they were one of the "holding on families," and did not leave that place until it was time for myself to go to bed. I managed to talk to Miss Eliza as well as the case would admit of, at the distance of half the width of the floor, till they all retired.
               It was too late to commence such an undertaking as "popping the question" is universally admitted to be, and all that I could then do was to sidle up to her again and tell her that I was sorry we had been interrupted, for I had intended saying something to her of considerable importance.
               She took with the trembles, thinking I was going to say something then of "importance," but I told her to set some time for me to come and I would then tell it to her. She studied for a few moments, and then told me of a certain day that all the folks would be from home, and that she would be at home; this was quite sufficient; I told her I would be up at the appointed time. Leaving her in this suspense, and myself in a like condition, I started out the door to go home.
               Now let it be recollected by you all, for I know how well I recollect it to this day, and will as long as I remember anything else, that the house in which the said Miss Eliza Jack's friend's lived, was a frame building, with high steps to go up, and it had been built a long time; there was under these steps a place fixed for keeping many articles for household use—a sort of secondary smoke-house, closet, or pantry, call it what you please; well, there had been a rain recently, and to make things correspond still better, some of the children had been eating peaches, and had thrown the peelings on the steps and on the porch, as is not unfrequently the case.
               I went to step out of the porch, and stepped on one of the peelings with both feet, and of all the falls that ever mortal man got in this world, it was certainly the hardest; I slipped as slick as anything ever did, and come with a smashing weight and noise down on the steps; they were very frail and could not bear much weight or jostling, so they said "good-bye" to their foundation, creaked a time or two, and down the steps and I went all together.
               The next thing I recollected was that I felt some kind of a fluid making its way to my surface, and it come up more than half way to my shoulders. The planks, and every bunglesome thing that you see encumbering steps were piled on me, and wedged around me so that I could scarcely speak, let alone trying to help myself out, but I managed to halloa out, "Help! help! I am dying here."
               Poor Miss Eliza was so frightened that she did not know what to do, but as soon as she brought the light and saw my situation, she dropped it on the floor, and screamed out equal to a young panther; this noise, so heartrending, was heard by some one passing along the street about the same time that the folks in the house, and the negroes in the kitchen heard it, and all at once there came a supply of help from each apartment. The folks in the house, and the negroes, ran out half dressed, of course, and the poor negroes were scared nearly to death. The men in the street, finding the gate fastened on the inside so that they could not get in, took a running start and jumped over the palings to come to the rescue of the suffering.
               Just as they were getting into the yard, the folks from within came rushing out to see what was the matter, and not observing that the steps were down, one of them tumbled over and went down to keep me company. He fell in such a position that he relieved me of a portion of the planks, giving me more mouth room to give warning. He did not fail to contribute his share of noise when he found where he was, for his head was downwards, which made it very bad on him.
               At this stage of the case, when the prognosis was anything but flattering, up came the old negro from the kitchen and would have been in also but for my timely warning. Not one of the whole crowd could be heard to say anything except us two who were in the cellar, and none of them thought of a light; I don't know what they were thinking of unless it was that I had killed Miss Eliza, and I at last I called out for a light. The old negro then spoke up, and says he, "What did I tell you, massa? I know some body was stealing things outer dat place, but no, you blame me and Dinar fur it and think we steal, now I reckon you know!"
               The negro then hurried off for the light, expecting, no doubt, to find a rogue in the cellar on his return. Miss Eliza was so alarmed and her system so shocked that she could not say a word, but remained speechless sitting in a chair on the porch. The first intimation that any of the persons present had of what was the matter, who was hurt, or what it was about, was when the negro returned with the light, which was very soon, and as he peeped over with the candle in one hand, he said,
               "Oh, good Lord massa, thar am Miss 'Liza's beaux down in ole missusses soap barrel!"
               Things were now soon explained, but not until we two unfortunate creatures had been taken out of the cellar, and all hands sympathized with us very deeply, but that did not take the soap off me, so I called for water, and by the assistance of the old negro I was soon the same as ever, only the loss of my clothes, as usual.
               The man who rested with his feet facing the skies, complained considerably of a "heavy feeling in the head," but I did not make any complaint after putting on a suit of clothes which one of the young men furnished me.
               By this time Miss Eliza was revived, and asked me how I felt. I told her I felt much better, but that it had been a tight squeeze for me to live through all the dangers that had surrounded me.
               I can't say that the soap did me much harm, but still if I had known what I was in, while I was covered over with the planks, I should have tried to hallooed a little louder than I did. Although it was quite late and I felt very much fatigued, I insisted on going home that night; the family begged me to stay, but I thanked them very kindly and departed.
               All this troubie did not make me forget the day that I was to go back and see Miss Eliza, for when the time came I got ready, and went up. She was looking for me, as I had expected, or rather as I had hoped; I had been deceived so often that I scarcely ever knew when to expect any thing. A few inquiries concerning how each other had got along since the "soap scrape," served as a starting point; I then took a seat close by her side, with all the composure I could start, for the purpose of making a few "important remarks." After clearing up my throat a few times I said,
               "Miss Eliza, I have sought the present happy opportunity of making known the tender regard I have for you; I know it is generally the case, that on occasions like this, a gentleman is expected to be very much agitated, but I am of that peculiar temperament which does not allow this excitement under any circumstances whatever; I hope, therefore, that you will not think my affection any the less on that account, but on the contrary the affection is much greater. From the first moment that I saw you my greatest ambition has been to call you my own dear Eliza; yes, to win your heart and your hand; the greatest hope that I have, during that time, had, has been that I might one day, when it suited you, be joined with you in wedlock; the few times that I have been in your company has kindled a flame of love in my heart that will make the rest of my days perfectly happy, or doom me to never ending misery; then let me ask you with all the feelings of love, affection, and devotion, to give me a candid answer, such a one as will at once terminate this case for my future destiny; ("she breathed mighty fast, her heart beat convulsively, and her face was all crimsoned.") "I ask not your circumstances as regards property, your honorable position in society is all I ask; so too I do not flatter you that I have wealth, but feel able to take care of you in a respectable manner, and I have a character of which I can boast, one that has never been polluted by a dishonorable action; with these considerations are you willing to take me as the partner of your bosom for life, to share my happiness and console me in the day of trouble?"
               Taking every thing into consideration, this was a considerable speech for the first, but not the first word did she say during the whole time I was talking; when I came to the last part, and when I had completed my remarks, I took her by the hand and looked right in her eyes; this made her look up and after a few internal emotions she said, that the affair had been very unexpected to her and begged that I would wait until the following Wednesday for an answer; I considered this favorable and offered to do so, if she would give me a kiss; she said it was a bold question to ask, but she leaned over towards me and I think I took one of the sweetest kisses that mortal lips ever crawled over.
               "Now I reckon you are satisfied," says she, looking up at me; I never made any apologies, but went on talking about something else until, I thought it time for me to go home when I told her one kiss by itself would get cold before I saw her again, and laid my arm around her neck like I was going to kiss her again; "a'int you ashamed of yourself" says she, but gradually leaned over towards me, falling into my arms, and at the same time looking up at me, and I could not help taking the desired kiss, as it was so convenient.
               She forgot that she was lying in my arms of course, and before I got off home, a dozen kisses would have got cold by themselves, and I suppose I put a dozen more with them to keep them company. It was a hard matter to get off from there that day, but fearing the folks would come home and make a talk of our being together so long I at last got away, taking a kiss the last thing I did.
               After I had left the scene of action, I could not avoid thinking seriously of the course I had taken, and I felt worse than I ever had done in life; what the cause was I could not tell, but it seemed to me if I had known I was going to die in ten days I could not have felt worse.
               But after all the bad feelings, when Wednesday came I went to receive a final answer. As soon as I went in I knew that I was going to be made the greatest fool of I ever had been, or I had stumbled on a girl at last who was not afraid or ashamed to say "yes," for as soon as I got into the room where Miss Eliza was she ran and shook hands with me, smiled the sweetest, looked the cutest, and acted the kindest I had ever seen a girl in my life,—she seemed as if she was as happy as she could live.
               We were soon seated together, and in a few minutes I made inquiry after my proposition, for I wanted to know how I stood; when I named the subject she dropped her head for a moment, then got up, went after a newspaper that was lying on a table near to us, sat down again and commenced looking over it, I thought that was a strange way of giving me an answer, but I let her alone to see what she would do. After looking over the newspaper for a short time she pointed out an isolated "no," and asked me how I would like that for an answer?
               I told her that everything then rested with her, and what she said on that night would be taken as a final answer; she then looked over the paper for a few moments longer, then pointing out another word, asked me how I liked that for an answer? I told her just what I have before repeated, that it rested with her. The word was "yes!" which she last pointed out, and I liked it much the best, if it suited her.
               She then cut out the two words, put them side by side, and told me that whatever was my choice, was hers; it did not take me long to pick out the "yes," and at the same time, taking each other in our arms, we signed, sealed and printed the contract with a kiss.
               The feeling for a moment was happiness beyond expression, but this was soon followed by a feeling of lassitude and low pulse seldom to be met with. I scarcely know how I felt but it was perfectly awful, I can tell you. I then began to reflect in the most serious manner, on what I had done; but fearing my seriousness might make her unhappy, I cast off reflection, for future employment, and endeavored to make the moments as sweet as home-made sugar.
               
               I could have as many kisses then as I could stand up to, in fact my lips were both kissed out of joint and the skin all off, but they did not taste half as good as the first ones I got a few days before.
               I staid an hour or two, and when I was going to start, I could not but notice how different everything went. The sweet little creature came up to me, laid her pretty white arms round my neck, and then kissing me, said:
               "When will I see you again?" I told her when I would come to see her, and then left for home.
               As I went along the street, it seemed to me that everybody knew as much about the case as I did, especially when they looked at me pretty straight; this was, however, a matter of immagination, and was one of those cases, commonly called, "a guilty conscience needs no accuser."
               When I got home I sat down to think over matters a little; I found that in my attempt to reek vengeance on woman, she had fastened on to me in such a way, that I did not know how to get out of it. I had no notion of marrying the girl, when I first commenced going to see her, or of ever allowing myself to become attached to her; but I had entered into a marriage contract, and was considerably in love too! Finding I could not better the case then, I came to the conclusion to let the engagement remain, and if on further acquaintance I found her worthy of my love I would marry her.
               I continued to visit her frequently for a short time, but it became necessary for me to pay a visit to one of the cities on the Ohio river, and we had to part for once, how long I could not exactly tell. It was on that occasion that I saw how much the dear girl loved me; it seemed as if it would kill her, when I left, but imperative duty called me away, and I had to go. During my absence I wrote to her frequently, and she answered me promptly; always expressing a wish to see me return, and saying that she was miserable without my society.
               I returned in as short a time as I could, and found her as constant as when I left; she still loved me with all the devotion of woman, and I loved her dearly—there was no object on earth so dear to me. I had not been back long, before circumstances transpired which rendered it necessary that I again should be absent from my affianced wife for several months. I told her I would return at a certain time, when we would be united in marriage; she consented to my wishes and necessities, and after an affecting interview we parted.
               As soon as I arrived at my place of destination, I wrote her an affectionate letter, which she answered as she had done on former occasions; in a short time, wrote her again, but from some cause she did not answer me; I wrote the third time but all to no purpose. I concluded that she had at last proved false to me, and did not write to her any more. A few weeks after writing my last letter, I received a few lines from a friend, stating that Miss Eliza had been married several weeks. This was the most appalling news that ever grated on my ear; to have heard of her death would not have hurt me half as bad. But, knowing I could not change things then, and thinking if she was so false as she had been, that she did not deserve noticing, I let the matter sink into oblivion, though I must confess it was attended with a heavy heart for a length of time.
               I heard nothing more of her for near twelve months, and sad was the news I received of her then; the letters which I had sent her had been intercepted by some designing person, and she was made believe that I never would return, and that I cared nothing for her. Under these circumstances she listened to the flattery of another, whom she married, as much, doubtless, to drown her sorrow, as anything else, for she never loved him. Their union was one of the most miserably unhappy matches that is on record. The man I do not pity, her friends or whoever it was that intercepted the letters, I do not care for, but "Eliza, believe me, I entertain a heart-felt sorrow for you, and would that I could make you happy again, but alas! I cannot." If I never see her more, I trust her angel spirit will safely be wafted to that blessed abode where sorrow is never known.
               I never returned to that part of the country after hearing of this unhappy event; I am now far from there, but the scenes are still vivid in my recollection, and will be as long as this frail mortality exists.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               TREEING A LOVER AT MIDNIGHT.
               It is an old saying that "misery likes company," and there are few truer things said than this, for Fumble carries out the principle in relating what he has witnessed in his rambles concerning other people. He having been somewhat unfortunate in love affairs, relates those mishaps of other rather, we suppose, as an "antidote" to his own. On the eastern bank of the Mississippi river, in Fulton County, Ky., near Mills' Point, a rather amusing affair took place once while I was stopping there, which resulted not very desirably to some of the parties concerned, and I propose to-night relating it for the gratification of such as have a notion to hear me.
               The section of country back of Mills' Point is somewhat hilly, and interspersed with deep ravines, which are dangerous to both man and beast, if they are so unfortunate as to make their lodgings in one of them of a dark stormy night, thus rendering it anything but desirable for persons to travel through them at such times, but it is said that "love knows no bounds," and I believe it, for a young man often ventured to cross these dangerous places at any or all times of day or night, for the sake of "stealing a kiss" from the sweet lips of his adored "lady love."
               It is sometimes the misfortune of us poor mortals to meet with crosses in love as well as everything else, and such was the case with young Blake (for that was his name), who, though very deserving, could not get into the hearts of the old folks.
               Any of us are liable to get into a difficulty, but let me hope you will all keep out after this.
               Mr. and Mrs. Grimes, the parents of Miss Betty, were in the habit of keeping something a little stronger than water about the house, when they thought it best, and more especially did they uphold the use of "root bitters" in "ague time," which lasted nearly all the year. Young Blake had been raised somewhere in the New England states, and was tetotaler; thus it was that the old folks and him could not agree; the old man would frequently look as cross as life and liquor would let him, while the old lady would not leave the room on every occasion that Blake and Miss Betty thought she might. Notwithstanding the many long talks Miss Betty and her parents had, she favored the intentions of the young man, and it was thought throughout the neighborhood that, of the contending parties, the young lady exercised the most judgment.
               Be that as it may, one thing is reduced to a plain matter of fact, that the young man continued to visit the house for several months, and many prophecies were made as to what would be the final result, none of which were ever fulfilled in toto. Many said that it would turn out a "run-away match," while others affirmed that the young Blake would take to drink for a while, to satisfy the parents, and sometime in a drunken spree they would consent, and thus a match would be brought about.
               These prognostications did not seem to have any influence on the case whatever, and things went on "just about the same of seven and six"
               It was now the middle of December, and a very cold time too, it was; the crops were generally gathered, every man with his crib full of corn, and asked no odds of any body; a favorable season had also blessed the country with a good supply of potatoes, and other things in proportion were to be found at almost every house. During those long winter nights young Blake could not refrain from walking over some three or four times a week, and Sunday for a rarity, to see Miss Betty. One dark cold night, when every body ought to have staid by a good fire if they had one, he left everything and put out to see her of whom he thought so much. The old people had not expected him, and had only the one fire built, around which the whole family were seated. A few loud barks of the dogs gave warning of his approach, and while a little boy went out to mind off the dogs, the young woman was plainly told that no other fire would be built there that night: she said nothing but evidently had rather made up the fire herself than be so cramped up, where the old ones and all could hear what her and Blake were saying. Such is woman's love that she will fix many ways to—marry.
               The poor fellow came in, and after blushing, scraping his feet, and wishing things were more favorable, he sat down. He mustered all his powers, but could not possibly get his mouth in talking temper oftener than every fifteen or twenty minutes, and then it went off in fits and starts, scarcely knowing what he said or who he spoke to. For instance, he would say, "Miss Betty do you know any one that has a wife to sell?" "How many eggs does it take to make a pound of butter?" and many others as reasonable in the abstract.
               Although so cramped in his feelings, he was unwilling to leave the field of battle without bearing off some tokens of victory, and was determined in his own mind to tire out the "old ones," that they might go to bed. He was well aware that they did not believe in sitting up late, and of course they would soon go to bed. About half-past nine o'clock the old man got sleepy, and he and all the family retired, with the exception of Miss Betty, Young Blake now thought he was at liberty to stay as long as he wanted to, and soon he felt "perfectly at home," with none to hear him talk except his adored Betty.
               At eleven o'clock he got up, stretched himself a few times, said he believed he would go, and—then he sat down again. Thus he was starting home every five minutes until one o'clock, and then he started in reality, for home.
               Miss Betty saw him to the door, and then retired, as happy as a cricket at Christmas. Soon after he left she heard the dogs barking at a terrible rate, but thought nothing of it, as they were in the habit of barking when any person left the house. Somehow though, they got warmer on the subject and made a most terrible noise, which had the effect of waking the old man, and as soon as he rubbed his eyes a time or two he called out to know if "Betty had gone to bed." She told him "yes, long ago, and that she was asleep." He now began to think the dogs had treed some kind of a wild animal, and got up to see if he could find it.
               His boy was rousted up, Miss Betty got up also, and the old woman commenced grumbling, telling them not to mind trifles, as the dogs would keep the varmint there until morning. The old man was not disposed to take things so quietly, for he said he believed the old lady would work one half of her life raising fowls, and then let the coons, possum, and every wild animal in the land, live off them. Laboring under the conviction that there was something about, he called out to the dogs "to ketch him fellers," and they did bark amazingly. All hands went out to look but could find nothing, so the old man gave the dogs a good scolding for telling him a lie, drove them away and all hands went to bed again.
               It was now two o'clock, and a very cold night, and it was anything but desirable to get up from a warm bed to look after barking and noisome dogs, but the fact was, none of the family could sleep, and the old man at last arose and swore something was wrong or the dogs would not keep barking.
               He took a candle and tried to see if the dogs had treed a coon, but the wind blew it out as soon as he got to the door; he then got a chunk of fire, and he and his son sallied out in search of game. They followed the dogs for some distance, and finally they came to a small tree just at the yard fence, at which the dogs stopped, and tried to run up it, so eager were they to get hold of their victim. This convinced them that the dogs were not barking merely because they had a mouth, but because something was intruding on the farmer's premises. The old man moved his chunk of fire through the air a few times to make a little light, and as he did so he saw something up the tree, which he at once pronounced to be a large sized coon.
               He thought of the loss of his tree to cut it down, and then the loss of the coon, which might wear out the dog's patience before morning, and thus make his escape, but finally he decided to cut down the tree, kill the coon and then go to bed in peace.
               He told his son to bring the axe, while he surveyed a little more to be certain it was a coon, and not a wild cat, which still were to be found in the woods of the adjacent country at that day.
               Very soon the boy returned with the axe, and the old man went to work to fell the tree, but, before doing so he halloaed to Betty to have some "hot toddy" ready, for they would be cold before the job was done. The tree was not very large, and the old man being an excellent hand with an axe, he knew he would soon "lay it to the land." He had been cutting only a few minutes, before he was nearly thunder struck, at what he concluded was the peculiar sound of a wild cat's voice, breaking in on his hearing organs all at a dash. He immediately dropped his axe, and told his son to go and load the gun, ready to shoot it at daylight. As the boy was about starting, another cry almost human fell on his senses, which had the effect of scaring him half out of his shoes, for he feared it was a ghost, or something else equally as bad.
               He screamed out to know if the old woman or Betty had said anything, but the answer was, NO! When in the worst of his fright, and not knowing what to do, his son reminded him that it might be Duggins' old Richard, out stealing chickens, and that the dogs had run on to him a little too fast.
               His fear was all gone in a moment, and without saying another word, picked up his axe and went to work with a vengeacce.
               "Stop, stop, it is me," cried a voice up in the tree. "Yes, I thought it was you," said the old man, "you may now say your last prayers Richard, for down this tree comes in less than five minutes, and the dogs will fairly make mince meat out of you; I am sorry for your master, but you do no more work for him in this"—
               "Ah! it aint Richard I tell you, but it is me!"
               "None o' your lying to me, who else would it be about a hen roost this time o' night, you had better confess your sins and tell how many chickens you have stolen in your life, and."
               "But I tell you, it aint no nigger, but it's me!"
               "Who is me then?" "It is-it is-is-ha-oh-is-eh-oh chu-chi-ro-how cold I am-is"
               "Why don't you tell me who you are?"
               "Oh-yes-it is-me-it is-Blake."
               The joke was ended; poor young Blake had started home, the dogs got after him, and he took a tree.
               At the sound of Blake in the element above ground, there was another sound very different, heard at the house; Miss Betty was listening, and as she heard the name, gave one piercing scream, and swooning away, fell prostrate at the door. The mother hearing this, so very unusual from her daughter, ran to her in a moment, and as she bore her to the fireside, called in an agonising tone for the father to come to her, for poor Betty was dying. He was in the act of running off, and leaving Blake in the tree without as much as saying "come down and go to the house," but the first leap he made, he heard a slight rattling of the limbs of the tree above his head, and as he looked up to see what it was, down came young Blake all in a lump, on his shoulders, knocking him to the ground.
               The dogs taking advantage of this sudden fall in stocks, pounced on the two without regard to either. Blake, who was before nearly frozen as hard as the tree in which he rested, suddenly lost all consciousness on hearing that Betty was dying, and this accounted for his coming down in such a hurry, without giving notice. The boy had broke for the house, and the conflict was left with the old man, Blake and the dogs. It did not take long for the old man to let his dogs know who they were fooling with, for a few good punches in the side set them a-going.
               By this time, the old woman was worse scared than ever, as her daughter showed no signs of returning consciousness, and she did not know but what her husband was killing young Blake, and that, she knew, would kill Betty. She ran to the door in a great hurry to call the old man again, and just as she was running and trying to halloa her loudest, in jumped her son into the door, striking their two heads together, and down they both came on the floor, almost lifeless, thus putting a stop to her screaming, and depriving her of the opportunity of doing anything for her daughter, whose situation very much demanded it at that time.
               The old man was in a like fix, he did not know what to do. If he left Blake lying on the ground, to go to the house, he knew the dogs would be right on to him, and they could soon kill him, as he was so benumbed with cold he was scarcely conscious of anything. A happy thought struck him, that was to carry him to the house, but in this state of nervousness he was unable to lift him. However he soon struck upon another plan, and put it in execution: he took him by the arms and dragged him on the ground to the house, about one hundred yards distant.
               He ran in as fast as his load would let him, not seeing what was before him, and down they all went in a confused pile, over the old woman and the boy. The old man came very near going into fits, and no doubt soon would have done so, but as he got on his feet, the old woman came to her proper senses, and got up.
               Such a scene of consternation as then presented itself, has rarely if ever been witnessed in as small a crowd. But with great presence of mind, the old man took in Blake, while the wife took in the boy to a warmer room.
               Betty and the boy were soon O.K., but Blake had the worst of it; he was nearly frozen to death. In the course of half an hour he was conscious of every thing present, especially Betty, and the old man taking a little of the "hot toddy," felt better, and offered some to his patient, Blake, who, though a tetotaler, thought it a good medicine, and took it freely.
               Before an hour had elapsed, every one was as happy as princes, and Blake felt his liquor no little.
               It was now daylight, a good fire made up, and the old man told Blake that as he had "taken a notion to go in for a horn" in the way of medicine, and considering everything, he might marry Betty.—Though Blake had never asked him for her, or even "popped the question" to Betty herself, they all struck hands for a bargain.
               The boy was sent out for the Squire, only a mile or two distant, who was duly authorized to solemnize the rites of matrimony, and in less than twelve hours, everything was arranged, and they were married.
               Fumble having now given you a touch of the miseries and mishaps of others, will be prepared at our next meeting, to proceed with some more of his own.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               POPPING THE QUESTION ACCIDENTALLY ON PURPOSE!
               Having lost sight of Fumble's own love scrapes for a short time, amid the many tramps he has taken, we will again return to that interesting part of his life. If he has not become a little hard-hearted by this time, he is made of different material to what we have taken him to be; however, he can tell his own story best: "Being once more thrown on the world with so many sad recollections knocking me in the face, I was ready to engage in almost anything to kill the bitterness of the moment, but as kind Providence was pleased to decree it, I was destined for something better than becoming a loafer in a grog-shop, or a participant of the vices of a gaming-table to kill time.
               Soon after the news reached me that the lady to whom I was engaged, had married another man, I became busily engaged in the affairs of life, so that the thing did not bear so heavily upon my mind.—The feeling of revenge which I once had towards the female part of creation was now so much enhanced that I cared not for the most beautiful, lovely, amiable, or affectionate woman on earth, my chief study was to invent plans for seeking my vengeance on the whole race of woman-kind, especially those who were unmarried, and to accomplish that, was my greatest desire; I had been slighted, treated falsely and maliciously; I thought but little of the dangers of the moments as they passed, but looked forward to the time when I should accomplish my purpose.
               Thus passed several months, during which time I did not pay any attention to the ladies, on any occasion; I had studied many ways in which to satiate my passion for past injuries, but had failed to start any thing which suited me.
               While laboring under this load of misery, and when my hope for future glory was at the lowest ebb, I received some intelligence relating to the letters that I had written to my once intended Eliza, but which had been taken from the office and destroyed, so that she never received them, consequently she was made believe that I intended to deceive her, and married another, with whom she lived very unhappily. This made me have a better opinion of the fair sex than I had entertained for a long time, and I thought that I would once more seek the society of the ladies.
               I was then living in the country, some distance from any village or town; during my stay there I had refused to go into society so long, and so often, that many of the neighbors did not invite me to their houses, knowing their hospitality, though generously offered, would not be accepted; I therefore had to make known the cause of the course which I had so long taken, before I could expect them to extend to me another invitation to visit them. Many persons made very strange of the way I did, and asked me the cause often, which I generally replied that I was bashful. There was one old gentleman in the neighborhood that was quite wealthy, who had two daughters, that had given me many pressing invitations to call and see his family, when I first went to reside there; and it was with feelings of no little regret that I declined the invitations, but there was too much fearing on my mind to allow me a place in the social circle as I once had enjoyed it; therefore I kept myself aloof from female society.
               When this sudden change took place in my feelings, I was at a loss to know how I should make a start again; but a few days passed until I was in a streak of luck; one day I was riding alone through the woods meditating on the many things of this life, and who should I meet but my old friend that had the two daughters, and who had so often invited me to call on him! When he met me he extended his hand for a hearty shake, which, of course, I excepted, giving mine in return.
               The first thing he said to me was, "Mr. Fumble what is the matter with you? I never see you go into company, or enjoy yourself in any way; if there is any thing I can do to relieve you, let me know it and I will certainly help you; come now tell me all about things and matters in general?"
               "Well, Mr. Budd, I must confess that my course since I came into this neighborhood has been rather peculiar, and the neighbors no doubt thought I was a strange man, but if they knew the cause, they would have quite a different opinion of me; I have kept myself out of society because I did not feel like I could enjoy the society of any one, and though it may seem strange to you, it is no less true, that while I am in these silent woods admiring the beauties of nature, I enjoy myself more than any other way."
               "Yes, so I have observed, Mr. Fumble but tell me the cause of this, I might give you some advice, or do something for you that would be of great benefit."
               I was now at a loss whether to go further, or still leave him in the dark, but a thought struck me that I might turn it off to good advantage and so I went on:—
               "I have been feeling very bad for a long time owing to losses which I sustained, and the most gloomy forebodings have been mine ever since; some months ago I had the misfortune to lose two of my best friends on earth, those that I loved most, they are now no more on earth; my life has been an unhappy one ever since; but recently I have concluded that weeping over these unavoidable misfortunes was not only sinful but useless, and think it would be as well to cease thinking of them,"
               "You are right; this greiving about matters of that kind will never do you any good, so now quit it, go into company and enjoy yourself, make the most of life while you live, and take my word for it you will be much happier; come down and see me, I will try and make you feel at home as much as I can; suppose you come to-morrow, and take dinner with us."
               I agreed to go down; what think you of the excuse I made to him? I think it was not a bad get off if it was slightly stretching the flat truth. Next day I went down according to promise to join the old gentleman in a social dinner—something I had not done in a long time—his daughters were at home and did everything to cheer me up that was in their power, thinking I was one of those unfortunate beings who had lost relatives and friends, and was cast on the cold sympathies of this God-forgetting world.
               The old gentleman, too, came in, and being of a lively, pleasant, agreeable nature, he was quite an addition to the already pleasant party. Some good wine was to be seen at dinner, and everything else that was good which is to be obtained in the country. We sat a long time at dinner talking over the most important items of the day; after we had dined, all hands took a nap of sleep of about an hour's length, then a table was set out and a game of cards proposed in which all hands participated; this lasted for two or three hours, with varying degrees of success to each one, and the scene closed with a little music on the guitar. This was a much longer stay than I had expected to make, but everything was so pleasant I could not get off sooner.
               When I was going to leave, the old genleman, and also the young ladies, gave me an invitation to call and see them often; I expressed myself very highly pleased with my first visit, and promised to call as often as circumstances would admit of.
               My horse being brought out I was in the act of leaving, when Mr. Budd proposed riding with me; I told him I should be glad of his company, he then had a horse saddled and we rode off together. It was only one mile from his house to where I lived, quite a short distance, but before riding that distance he made me an offer of a very liberal character; he said if I was "hard up for money he could let me have what I wanted; I told him I was very much obliged to him, but I did not stand in need of any at that time, and hoped I should never be necessitated to tax his generosity.
               Whether he did this to see if I had any means, or whether it was in reality a generous act, were questions that I could not decide, but it was my opinion he was trying to pry into affairs in a roundabout way, that did not directly concern him. He may have thought that I would be apt to take a fancy to one or both of his daughters, and if so, he would like to know how much cash I had, but let his notions have been what they might, he did not get any satisfaction out of me on the subject.
               His daughters were both pretty, had a fair education, and were in a high degree entertaining, as well as possessing manners that were quite winning; their father possessed a large amount of property, knew how to behave himself right well, and on the whole "his daughters would not be a bad take," thought I.
               When he went to part with me he reminded me of my promise that I would call and see them, at the same time admonishing me not to think of past misfortunes, but look forward to a brighter future. His house being near, and as I had became somewhat attached to the family, I did not fail to go down often and spend a few hours with them. The youngest daughter was sent off several hundred miles to school not long after I began to visit the house, thus leaving her older sister and I to work out our own affairs.
               I thought the younger decidedly the prettiest, but she was too young to marry, so I concluded to pay all the attention I could to the older one; permit me, then, to introduce for your consideration Miss Amelia Budd, a young lady that has black hair, black eyes, rather under the usual size, but spunky to make up for it, with a high look, a proud heart, and jaw sufficient to kill more than did Sampson. I had been keeping her company but a short time before she began gan to show symptoms of love for me, and these symptoms she endeavored to make as apparent as the delicacy of civilized society will admit of with impunity.
               She would look straight into my peepers with a steady head and piercing eye that she knew was her own; make a deep inspiration and tell me flat to my cheeks that I was good-looking, besides many other things so characteristic of a peculiar stinging, shooting, pulling, or shaking sensation about the human "force pump" known as love.
               This could not long continue without exerting a degree of influence on the central organ of my sanguinary circulation, and a like effect on the delicate prolongations of the half-way ground of my face, resulting in no small amount of high-flown and spicy ejaculations from the articulating apparatus of my throat.
               I played cards with her, I walked with her, I loved her, I talked to her, I drank wine with her, and at last I engaged to take a ride with her on horseback. It was on a lovely morning in the fall; at an early hour I was on the spot ready to comply with the contract; the horse that I was to ride was a little fiery, but I had never known him to throw any one or hurt them, and after she had made a little preparation we started. She was as good a hand with a horse as ever I saw, managed him well and kept herself in a good position in the saddle; there was no lack of conversation as she could talk as fast as two or three people, and I was endeavoring to keep up with her in the round of talking. We wandered some distance into the woods, admiring the beautiful scenery, and occasionally looking earnestly at each other with apparent depth of feeling.
               After we had rode as far as we had desired to do, we got down to rest on a large log that was lying near the road; it was then getting so warm that we concluded to get home before the hottest part of the day, mounted our horses, and was soon on our way. As we were crossing a little muddy pond of water about a mile from her father's, I went to stoop my head to get out of the way of the limbs of the trees which hung over, but was too slow in doing so, for one of the limbs struck my hat and down it went in the pond of water; this scared my horse, he gave a spring or two and he was out of the pond; just as he struck the bank my saddle turned, I was thrown from my seat, and in a moment I found that my foot was fast in the stirrup, my head dangling in the air, and the horse, becoming more alarmed than ever, put off at full speed.
               It would be useless to attempt a description of my situation or my feelings at that moment; the danger was as great as it was possible for it to be, not to be killed instantaneously, and as regards feeling, all I had, was when my head struck against some substance which came in the way.
               It would seem like hoping against the vaguest supposition of expectation, to think that I would escape alive, and there was not time left for one calm thought, or to offer a prayer for my poor soul; neither had I time to think of what became of Miss Amelia, whether her horse had become frightened also and run off, or what could be her situation. The blood rushed down to my head darkening my vision, and rendering my life in still greater danger; the brightness of day vanished, sensibility was gone, and I was lost to all the outer world.
               My next moment of recollection was sometime afterwards; when I opened my eyes there stood Mr. Budd, holding my arm where he had bled me, and bending over me was the form of the lovely Amelia. As soon as I had sufficiently recovered to talk, they told me that the horse ran with me until the fastening of the saddle broke, which was a most fortunate thing, for if he had run into the woods among the logs, bushes, and trees, with my foot still in the stirrup, I would certainly have been killed.
               When Mr. Budd got to me he bled me, thinking it was the best thing he could do; it had the desired effect, relieving my brain of the great engorgement, and I was soon restored to consciousness; in the meantime Miss Amelia came up, who sympathized with me very deeply, came to look over me and do something for me. I had been bruised in one or two places on the back part of my head, which were the only serious injuries I sustained. Before long I had nearly or entirely recovered, and we all went on to the house, only a few hundred yards off; I did not stay there long until I went home.
               "Another misfortune! added to what has already befallen me, what am I to do? but oh! my head now feels so heavy I must lie down and think some other time."
               Such were my thoughts after arriving at home, but after I had laid down, owing to the great fatigue, I soon fell asleep, and on awaking I felt much better.
               After recovering from my injuries I was again a frequent visitor at Mr. Budd's, and was, ere long, and before I knew it, almost deep in love with his daughter, Amelia. I studied for many an hour whether I should let her know anything of it or not, but finally I thought if she refused it was all she could do, and if she agreed to have me I would walk right into a fortune and be done with it.
               I knew I was poor; that everything was against me; that I had no reason to expect the young lady would have me, but yet I was unwilling to quit her company without knowing her feelings towards me; I was well aware that unless I asked her I could never find out, and, hoping she would not kill me should I name such a thing as love to her, I made up my mind to name it the first opportunity I had. One afternoon I rode down, having collected together all the sweet words, sweet hopes, and sweet looks that I could start, to ask her a few plain, simple questions. I had become so accustomed to disappointments in love matters, that I thought I could stand a "refusal" as well almost any man in America.
               
               I found her in her usual good humor, and ready for a talk; I endeavored to be as calm, collected, and firm as I could, for I had an important point at issue, that involved my future happiness, as well as my fortune. Everything seemed to favor the object of my mission; the old folks were from home, Miss Amelia in a good humor, and my mouth talkable.
               After I had been there a short time, I thought to myself "I will make a trial anyhow," and see how I will come out; I got as close to her as I thought necessary, and commenced:—
               "Well, Miss Amelia, you and I have been keeping company for a length of time, and I trust it has been agreeable to us both; I know not what influence it has had upon your feelings, but with me it has had such an influence that I can no longer refrain from an expression of the feelings of my heart; your beauty, your amiability, your kindness, and noble traits of character, have won my affections; in other words, suffer me to say, that I am deeply in love with you; I have come this evening to express my feelings in a candid manner, hoping that you will be equally candid with me; could you forsake all the world of mankind for me? could you take up your abode with one, who though not blessed with quite as much of this world's goods as yourself, has a heart that can give utterance to the most noble thoughts that poor human beings are capable of appreciating?"
               About this time I observed that she was seized with a fall-together-bility of the eyelids, and other symptoms indicating that she was laboring under the soporific influence of love; hoping I could win her heart and hand, and also a portion of her father's property, I went on:—
               "Let me then ask you could you take me as the one with whom to live the rest of your life, that I might prove to you a faithful and affectionate husband?" There she sat with her eyes closed and not a word was she saying. Believing that she was greatly under the influence of my eloquence, I pressed ed the inquiry, saying to her, "will you not give me an answer? why are you so reserved, so still?" But she made me no answer; I asked her again and again, but she was as still as ever. I could not tell what to make of it, certainly it was the strangest affair I had ever witnessed; I did not know how to act!
               After speaking to her for some dozen times without an answer, I thought it my duty to arouse her in some way, for she looked deathly pale; I did not know but that the "popping of the question" might have acted very powerfully on her, for she was rather of a nervous temperament, and not wishing any accident to happen her while I was there, and during the absence of her parents, I ran out, got a pitcher of water, and souze I threw it into her face, as hard as I could, and—
               "Oh mercy, what is this, oh! father, run here, my face is burnt, I am ruined, oh me! ah! how came this"—and thus she went till a dozen or two of the darkies heard their young mistress, and came running into the house to see what was the matter, knowing that their ole massa and missus was from home, and that there was no person in the house but me.
               I told them there was nothing the matter, only their young mistress felt a little faint and I had thrown some water in her face to bring her to. "No sir, I did not feel faint in the least, I was only asleep, and you had no right to throw a pitcher of water all over a body in this manner."
               She kept going on louder, faster, keener, sweeter, in larger doses, and more stronger, until the first thing I knew I saw the old man—her father, come rushing in at the door with a big hickory stick in his hand, a countenance like a thunder cloud, his mouth thrown open, his eyes sparkling like fire, his teeth chattering, and says he, "what does all this mean?" Before I had time to say a word, Miss Amelia told him that I had thrown a pitcher of water in her face, and it was a great insult, to treat a lady in that way; the old man walked over to me and asked me to explain myself, and that very quick too; and the way he flourished that stick over his head made the flesh creep on my bones, for I knew he was the man who would use it, if he thought it necessary. Now wasn't I in a fix that time, and no mistake?
               I told him as fast as I could, that "while I was talking to his daughter, she had rather suddenly ceased to notice my conversation, and on looking at her I found her eyes were closed, and she looked very pale; I tried to arouse her by talking to her, but failing in that, I had got some water and thrown it into her face for the purpose of bringing her to, not knowing but what she had fainted."
               The old fellow looked at me very straight all the time I was talking, as if he would bounce on me every minute, but when I got through he accepted the explanation, laid down his stick, took a chew of tobacco, and asked me to be seated, while Miss Amelia told her part of the story. She only said that she had fallen asleep, and that I had thrown the water in her face while in that sweet reposing situation, waking her up, and interrupting her peaceful moments in a rough way.
               Her father said he could not blame me so much, for a young lady had no business to go to sleep while in company with a young man. Things quieted down once more, the negroes went back to work, the old man brought out a little of something to drink, and we all took a game of cards, and in about two hours broke up in pretty tolerable good terms, but if ever I want to see that young woman again, it has to be after this, for I did not like getting into scsapes in that manner, and then for her to tell her father that she was insulted, made an impression in my flesh that is to be seen to this day.
               This was one time that I was right, for in less than two weeks every negro, schoolboy, old woman, fool and drunkard in ten miles square could repeat the speech, that I made to Miss Amelia on that day, by heart, and by head too!
               She told how I tip-toed it, and went on, hoping to get her to say yes; and the worst of it was, she put forty times as much to it; she said I swallowed a dog, a looking glass, and two or three negro children in the round, besides rubbing down my face with a mixture of shoe-tacks and walking-canes; in fact you never heard such another talk through any community in all your days, as there was about that affair, but I kept quiet all the time.
               By listening a little occasionally, I found out I was not the only one who had been "kicked," for she was a most notorious coquette, having rejected, according to her own account, twenty-three chances. She never had but two chances after that, for she took the twenty-fifth, the very one she ought to had; he was a tearing-down character, a spendthrift, and vagabond, who, in due time, made the dear Amelia, the most wretched, miserable and pitiable object which it has ever been my lot to look upon."
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               'MUSS" WITH A "MAN-HATER."
               We must be excused for not giving all of Fumble's love-scrapes in one long train after each other, without any intermission, for we would lose sight of many interesting little incidents which go to make up the general character of the man. But Fudge is now in the right humor for telling us more about love and matrimony, so we will keep silence while he is talking: "Exasperated by the many mishaps which had overtaken me I once more threatened vengeance on the women of the land; I intended to attack the prettiest, the ugliest, the youngest, the oldest, or any others that might happen to come in my way, and that too at my earliest convenience.
               
               I looked around to see who would be the most suitable personage to commence on, and in my travels I heard of a certain young lady who, it was said, had made her brags that no man could win her affections, or make the least impression on her feeling whatever, so I set to work to get an introduction to her. This, I found, was not a very hard matter, for she gloried in breaking as many hearts as she could. A young man who was well acquainted with her, went over with me to see her, and gave me a "knock-down to the fair one."
               She was a young lady by the name of Miss Alice Hatfield, twenty-three years old, auburn hair, thin lips, thick eyebrows, small teeth and round arm, a little chuckle-headed, and—just enough of her for any man.
               When we went in she was all sugar lumps and 'lasses barrels, she was so kind, so amiable, so gentle, and yet very talkative, recognized the acquaintance, and expressed much pleasure in becoming known to me. We staid most of the afternoon, had a great time of it, bid good day to the fair one and returned to the place from whence we came.
               As we were going on, the young man asked me how I was pleased with Miss Alice; I told him that I was very well pleased, and that it was a great pity one so beautiful should make such harsh resolves as I had understood she had made. He said there was no doubt that she had made them, and had done so from the fact that in former years, a young man had won her affections, they were engaged to be married, but he had gone off and never returned to comply with his contract; this so embittered her with the world that she said no man should ever meddle with her affairs again, in fact she had become a perfect "man hater."
               Notwithstanding this she would keep company with the gentlemen, and her aim was to break as many heads, hearts, and livers as she could, to make up for her lost lover and lost happiness. She was miserable herself, and delighted in making everybody else so. Her parents were greatly opposed to the course she had taken, but they could not persuade her to desist; she would always remind them of her once happy days and bright prospects and her present wretched condition.
               I commenced going to see her about three times a week, regularly, with the view to make her believe I was nearly dying for her; in this I was not disappointed, for she acted in a manner calculated to make a gentleman love her, on all occasions; she was all kindness, love, affection, meekness, sociability and sweetness; and on no account would she dare to talk of anything more sour than loaf sugar, or harder than raw cotton.
               In less than three weeks I had got mad enough with her "humbuggery" and affection to "pop the question" flat-handed to her. She turned her head first one side and then another for a short time, and at last says to me, "Excuse me sir."
               "What for," says I, "you did not tramp on my toes or anything of the kind, did you?" You may judge she looked "fork-ed" for a while, but at length she collected her faculties together again and said, "you asked me if I would have you and I said, excuse me sir, do you understand now?"
               "Yes, Miss Alice, but you misunderstood me about the "have me" affair, I asked you if you would not 'have a chew of tobacco,' and thus it was you misunderstood me."
               She would not agree that I had made any allusion to the tobacco, but insisted on it that I had "asked her to have me," saying that the matter was not likely to be got rid of in that way, I rose to my feet and said:
               "Be it forever known and understood to you, then, that I did ask you to have me, and if you will hold your temper only a few minutes longer, I will make one of the finest speeches that ever crawled over your sensibilities in life; I am that same Fudge Fumble, the man of scrapes, five feet nine inches and a quarter long, not quite so thick as a poplar tree, a little sway-backed and hump shouldered in the inferior extremities, can lick an African negro, a bear, panther, or wild-cat, cut up more shines than sinners in hot water, and—and—let me tell you I am up to the hub in love with you and can't move a peg; the clouds are rising with symptoms of rain and muddy weather, so I am likely to remain in the same predicament unless you help me out; if you don't marry me you'll be sorry for it the longest day you ever lived, for I have always said that if I was rejected I would do terrible things; if you refuse me I will go out and eat the corn crib, fodder stacks and peach orchard; I will build up a monument of soft shell mud-turtles and hemp ropes, call a meeting of old maids and old bachelors, tear down the world and eclipse human nature; I will tie the destinies of tad poles, poor horses and nigger babies together, cast them into the wheel of human happiness, and stretch my nose a mile long; I wish the four corners of my mouth may grow together, the inkstand of futurity dry up, and the earth be turned into beeswax, if I don't slide straight down to Egypt, and marry "Kill-o-patra," if you refuse me; now what have you to say?"
               She looked as hard as a brickbat at me, but could not say a word for five minutes; I let her alone to see what would become of her, or what would be the workings of her countenance, after hearing such a wonderful, such an uncommon speech on the subject of love.
               She finally recovered her talking powers, and at the same time recovered her power of saying "excuse me sir;" I made no other reply than, "thank you, I am a thousand, thousand times thankful for your kind consideration; I knew you could not resist such love as I have for you, which was displayed in the monster effort just made; rest assured sured, my dear Alice, that we will live happy together, if the most perfect attention to your wants, undying love and never ending devotion can accomplish it, both before and after we are married; but now, my angel, good-bye, I will call again soon, in the meantime think of your affianced husband every moment with feelings of perfect composure; the time for the consummation of the marriage contract will be appointed when we meet again—I must go, good-bye, my dear Alice, good-bye."
               I dont suppose you ever saw such another looking gal in all your living days as she was when I was going on in that way, and before she had time to collect together her reasoning powers again, I was off like a quarter horse.
               I expect you are thinking that I never called on her again after she refused me, but you are not right this time, for I did call again, and again, and then I called after that. The next time that I went back, I walked in as big as Mr. Anybody and says I;
               "How do you come on my angel? I hope you are well! Oh! but you can't immagine how much I have thought about you since I left here the other day; I was thinking how happy you and I would be when we got married; and then I thought how sweet and nice you would look sitting at the top of the table, pouring out the coffee and handing round the biscuits." Well, the long-shot of it is, that I can scarcely tell you what I did or didn't say, but I guess, (as the Yankee says,) that I said a mighty great big chance of things, alluding mostly to the sweets of matrimony after it was fastened.
               Miss Alice was in a cross and pile fix of it every way, not knowing what to make of me; I thought still she might agree to make a husband of me, if she tried right hard, but she didn't, and even if she had agreed it would all have been the same. I was in no humor for marrying—her, but still I wanted to wake her up one time, so that she would be prepared to marry the next man who offered himself to her mercies cies. She began to think I was one of the hard cases that we read of, and raised her spunk to the highest mark; she arose from where she was, and told me that she did not desire my company any longer, at the same time making tracks for the other room.
               I deliberately rose and followed on after her, and went into her mother's room; there sat the old folks, who seemed greatly surprised to see us coming into their apartments, thinking we would much prefer being alone in the other room; Miss Alice took a seat over next to her mother, looking very hard at me all the time; I went to the old man's side, took a seat, and commenced talking to him, on matters and things in general, as much composed as if eating tough beef and raw onions.
               Miss Alice sat there for some time, without saying a word, listening to me, but at last she went back into the other soom. I thought I would never have a better opportunity to carry out my plans, and says I:
               "Mr. Hatfield, your daughter and I have been talking over some little affairs, and before going further, I desire to know if I can have your consent as well as that of your wife; we desire to marry, if you have no objections to the match?" They both looked greatly amazed for a moment and did not make me a reply for some little time; they looked at each other several times, talked together for a while, but at last they said, they had no objections at all. "Thank you, thank you," says I, and away I ran into the other room to see Miss Alice; she was sitting there looking as mad as human nature could afford in hot weather, wishing, no doubt, that I would stay in her mother's room till I got ready to go home.
               I went up to her, smiled as nice as I knew how, got between her and the door to keep her from running out, and then told her that her parents were entirely willing for us to marry; she bore it pretty well, so I went on with increasing audacity:
               
                  
                     Taming the shrew—Fudge Fumble and the man-hater, Page 175.
                  
               
               
               "Yes, my dear, dear Alice, I am now so happy, to think we will soon be united, never more to part; your parents are willing for us to marry as soon as we choose, now will you select the day, by the time I come again? that's a good girl, I thought you would; I will come over to morrow or next day to see what time you have picked upon; do not consult my feelings in the case, but suit yourself; of course, the sooner you say, the better it will suit me; I will leave you again to think of our future happiness; good night, my angelic creature, I hope to find you well when I see you again, good night." Thus I left her.
               Two days after, I called according to promise; you are wondering how it happened that she was at home, (for she was,) as she did not like me, having refused me; but be your thoughts as they may, she was on hand, and besides that, the old folks were from home.
               I was very greatly surprised to find her at home, myself, and thought that the wiry edge was wearing off a little; I commenced going on about as usual, asked her when the wedding was to take place, how she felt on the subject, and a whole lot of talk, I hardly know what, and sidled up to her in a hurry.
               She did not take it as well as I had expected, for she said to me that she had told me once or twice, that she did not want my company, at the same time going out of the room briskly. I gathered my hat, picked up myself, shook my head and shoulders a few times, and right after that gal I went. I followed her into her mother's room, she went out into the yard, I followed on; she took a stroll to the garden, still I was on hand; she got outside and walked along the road, I followed her on for nearly a mile; then she turned for home, I turned also and followed on; she got back home, walked the yard and garden over a few times more, still I was with her; she then went into the house and sat down, almost tired to death; I walked in after her, took a chair, sat down close to her, and says I:
               "Didn't we have a nice walk my dear? oh! but how many fine walks we will have after we are married!" The girl just looked at me with such another look, as never came along before nor after, that I have seen, and I thought she would faint, but she didn't, so I talked on like nothing was wrong.
               I kept tormenting her in this way for more than an hour; I left again telling her what time I would return, which was on the next Sunday just before Church-time, At the appointed hour I was there, but there was another young man waiting to go with her to Church; they walked out, got on their horses and rode off; I stopped a moment to tell the old man if he did'nt think that it was a strange way for a girl to do with her intended husband? he said he was sorry, but Alice was a gal that did as she pleased with every thing and every body.
               I told him good morning, and started off, thinking that he would be mistaken about Alice doing as she pleased with every body; I rode up pretty fast till I overtook them, and made my horse go on one side of Alice, while the other man was on the opposite side; he was a poor hand to talk any way and this bold step on my part, completely paralized his gabling apparatus, so that he could say nothing, and could only say that occasionally and in small doses
               When I rode up I was mad and in a fine plight for doing some of the loudest talking I was master of, and I went right at it. The fellow looked over at me, I looked at Miss Alice, she tried to look at us both at the same time, and on we went; we rode up to the meeting-house that way, got down, hitched our horses, and when they went to walk in I got on one side, stooped down to whisper to Alice, and kept close by her.
               Meeting being, over all hands were going out to get on their horses; as Alice came out I backed up to her on one side, the same as before while the other man was on tother side, and we kept this way until we reached the getting-up place. Now, don't you think that fellow felt curious 'bout then? yes, for his horse was no where to be found; he had broken loose, accidentally of course; during preaching, and gone home.
               I thought I would go home with Miss Alice rather than see her go by herself, and on I went with her, leaving the other man to get home the best way he could. I made use of the time to good advantage, I can tell you, and before that day was past I had made her redden up in the face twenty times; she began to think I did did love her sure enough, and she began to love me by hat's full.
               I came down harder and harder on her feelings all the time until I made her ashamed of the way she had treated me, and at last she agreed to have me. I told her what day I would come to make further arrangements and went home. Now comes the trying moment. When I went to see her next time, it was when her parents were from home one afternoon; I went in and she was all love and sweet syrups, celogne, and bay rum, but I made out to look quite serious; I had been there but a few moments when I sat down by her to give her a civil chat.
               "Miss Alice, I have for many long weeks sought to win your affections, tell me now whether or not you love me?
               "My dear Mr. Fumble I do love you, and am sorry that I once treated you so badly."
               "Then let me say to you a few words; your conduct when I first made your acquaintance, was affable, kind, and such as becomes a lady; as soon as you thought I loved you, then it was, that you endeavored to blast my happiness, and add another broken heart to your already long list; this course I would not suffer you to carry out with me, but kept with you until I have seen that crimson cheek, heard that fluttering heart, and that deceitful tongue give evidence that you loved me.
               
               Be those declarations honest or otherwise, it is all the same to me; I have convinced you that there are more men in the world worthy of being loved than one, and have taught you that 'first love' is fiction; I have taught you some useful lessons which your own dear parents have hitherto, failed to do; and I have shown you that there is nothing like perseverance in winning woman's love. Now let me give you a few words of advice; in the first place you are to cease thinking of me,—forget me, as you would the falling rain, whose presence is ever unwelcome in wet weather; when a young man makes love to you again, try and love him, if he is a worthy gentleman, and rest assured you can teach your heart to throb with emotion yet, when you hear the approaching footsteps of one of the creatures called men; cast from you the idea of ever breaking another heart, and seek to make reparation for past offences; do these things and you will see the day when you will be as happy as the feathered songsters in yonder wood; but never think of marrying me, for I leave you now, once and forever,——farewell?"
               And so saying, I shook hands with her and left the house, while she hung down her head and a flood of tears gushed from her eyes, a trembling of her whole system was apparent and the deep groans she uttered, were painful to my ear, and I hurried away leaving her in the deepest agony, while I had gratified an evil passion,—revenge, and sad was the gratification, after all.
               But let us cheer up; I never visited Alice any more, as I left the neighborhood soon after, but I learned that in a short time she recovered and in less than a year was united in the ropes of matrimony and potatoes, got a good husband, she made a good wife, and they lived happily together.
               Young men, believe me,—there is nothing like putting a coating of brass on your face when you go a courting; I think mine was covered with a mixture of brass, lead, tin, sheet iron and steel in this case, I don't know what you think!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               EGOTISTICAL SOLILOQUIES.
               Our friend Fudge is getting into a "higher class of society," perhaps he may fare a little better; we will see, but it shall be given in a somewhat different tone—rather a mixture of things, of two or three, to make it spicy; Fumble is in Louisville, Ky., see how he comes out:
               "He is gone at last, and really I must say that I am very glad of it, though it may not seem as dignified in me, whom everybody praises so much for the attention I give my friends when they call to see me, and my ability to entertain so many at once, even, but the plain matter of fact is, (I suppose I am all alone now, without a doubt,) that a person of my talents, appearance, circumstances and go-ahead disposition, cannot afford to lose valuable time in spending an evening with ordinary persons. If I did not think or care for making any display in the world—had no ambitious propensity to gratify, or romantic thoughts to be converted into a happy reality, no business to attend to, then I might afford to spend my leisure moments thus; but such is not the case by any means.
               I set out on the perilous journey of vitality with the determination to be a wealthy man before I died, if I lived long enough; from that meritorious resolution I must not, can not, will not shrink, though in carrying it out I may sometimes wound the tender feelings of those whom the world ordinarily term friends.
               I wonder though, just for curiosity sake, how the poor man must have felt when he saw me take out my time-piece so often and look at it for a moment, then raise my hands to my head, yawn a little, cast a wishful look at the door, get up on my feet, straighten up my collar, and throw my teeth over my lip in the act of biting it? No use to trouble my mind further on the subject now though; I am well aware of my abilities, and how jealous all my acquaintances are of me. They fear that with the rising sun of every day, something will emanate from my brain, which will forever silence them.
               I most sincerely think that I am where no one can hear me—nonsense, I am only thinking, no one can hear me of course, but the thing is, will I be interrupted? Why do I walk so often across this floor? what agitates me? But I must be calm, thus it is that all great men have done; am I not one whose name will yet become as familiar as that of Alexander, Cicero, Shakspeare, and the greatest who have ever put the world in excitement?
               Yes, I have the same chance that they had, and now with this expansive thought before me, I will onward.
               Wealth, honor, glory and distinction are before me, and I will grasp them all or sink down to nothingness, oblivion, the grave. What use in living, if a man is to be a mere standing post, driven into this great rolling ball, against which the smallest of mankind or most insignificant of the brutal creation can stumble in the course of time? It shatters my very frame to contemplate such an existence.
               But now let me review a few of my past actions, and see how I stand in the scale of beings: Ah! dear to me are the days of my childhood, when my fond parents looked wistfully on me, and so often said, "here is a bright child who is destined in future years, to be an ornament of the age in which he lives; the brilliant and glorious centre around which the rest of the world will form a circle of glorious insignificance." How truthfully did these knowing ones speak! What judges of greatness!—in the distance—and how well they acted their part towards me! otherwise I might never been more than a stick of sealing wax in the animal creation, merely sticking to the earth's surface by adhesion.
               Now I am twenty-five and more; I begin to look like a man. Who can show such a growth of whiskers? they are setting the ladies all crazy. The curl of my hair too is the general topic of conversation, wherever I go; I don't wonder at it, for a more beautiful head of hair I don't think I ever saw; it must be that I am related to the nobility. Then another thing seems to me to look well: I am as straight built as the best drilled soldier to be found at West Point. My friend—yes I must call Mr. Presumptive, one of my friends—told me the other day he never saw any one possessed of such walking powers in his life. Miss Pertinent, I recollect what she said, too, about my beautiful, well-set teeth, and a mouth that "beggared description." I declare she does sometimes seem to me as if she was eloquent. The tailor! yes, he says I look better in a few clothes than any customer he has got; he never has any trouble in making a fit for me that he does with some of those crooked back, awkward looking representations of frail humanity called men.
               Pshaw! pshaw! half the men in the world are not worth their weight in "cough candy" I believe, any way it can be fixed. Ah me! as I place my hand on this forehead, and I think what so many have said about it, I almost am jealous of my own greatness, though yet not developed fully. I will not go so far back to hunt up great men whom I have been compared to. Did not Esquire Wishful only a few days ago say that I was the very image of Webster? I know he is a man of great judgment, and could not have made a mistake in seeing something in me more than in most of men. Besides all this, Mr. Wake was frightened out of his wits the other evening, in taking me for Henry Clay, with whom he once was well acquainted.
               Scarcely had the thought of this died away when Lawyer Fleece expressed his admiration of me because I resembled the immortal Washington. But stop, let me see how this is, looking like so many different great men, for the first time that I saw Doctor Drug well, he told me there was one thing in me which attracted his attention more than usual—"You are more like Andrew Jackson than any man who now lives."
               Well! well! what am I to make of it? these men were honest in their belief, there can be no doubt of that; men are not rogues on such serious subjects; oh, no, can't be so, most of men in the world are what they appear to be after all the talk. *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *
               I thought so; every one of them are right from this simple fact, which I might have thought of before—"all great men are very much alike!" This is a consolation. But what am I doing? I must away or I will be too late—why did I stop here thinking so long? *  *  *  *  *  *  *
               Again, after many "ups and downs," which but few men in the world could withstand, I am at my room—at home without the loss of a single limb; not every one who could sit up till this time of night, still I have done it without grumbling, and don't feel any the worse of it. Now if I have not had a glorious time to night, I can't tell what people call good things; the first lady at the "party" that had the pleasure of being introduced to me was so handsome! I know she fell in love with me too from the way she kept sighing, wrapping her handkerchief round her hand, biting the end of her gloves and casting a sly glance at my features occasionally. She did praise me so much, too, for my good taste in adjusting my cravat and collar; I could see how all the other ladies envied her when I was sitting by her side. They all must have wanted to be in my company from the way—from the way they looked at me.
               Certainly I must have created "quite a sensation"—Miss Giggle said I was the finest looking gentleman in the room, and she knows, for she don't laugh for nothing all the time; Miss Torpid, as little as they say about it, is a nice young lady; she said I must have just come out of a "bandbox," I was so nice; Miss Grumble, whom none of the company noticed much, said that I went to the looking-glass too often to look at my teeth and whiskers; now what was that to her? I know, though, what made her talk so—she was thinking I would lay her brother Slate Head in the shade.
               That Miss Sporting is a rare piece, truly, and she even appreciated my appearance this evening; that was a compliment which I did not look for—"Oh, Mr. Fumble, you can drum on a piano during the performance of music, equal to a drum major in a hard battle, dear me, what nice fingers you have!" I once loved her a little, but there are so many loving me now that I don't know what to do; they all seem to think I will make one of the best husbands in all the country.
               Thus it is, let me go where I may, encouragement marks my every step and seems to say still louder, "onward—to glory and renown, strike down with a mighty arm and spare not."
               But dear me! the night is nigh gone—is far spent and I must to bed, or I shall make but slow progress the coming day; this way I have though, of thinking of the great, the mighty, the wondrous, the beautiful and the sublime, when no human ear can catch my dropping thoughts, is one of the privileges which all may enjoy, but which I, more than ordinarily, appreciate. This "World of Thought" is immensity in itself! It is a world in one's cranium that he has the entire control of, independent of all the outward influences which man can call into action. His mouth may be closed, his eyes no longer behold nature's lovliness or the mangled remains of what art has perverted, his limbs in stocks, and ears dead to the sweetness of sounds, however enchanting; still that world of thought is his own, which constitutes his very existence. Neither kings, princes, law, love, hatred, jealousy, freedom or des potism can enter this to interrupt actions already existing, or introduce new ones which are contrary to his own liking. Ouch! this is cold, getting into bed after a few hours well-displayed indulgence in such enjoyment; it's all right though, they say we must take both the bitter and the sweet together.
               Now I am getting warm and must go to sleep; may Heaven protect me and bless me with sweet repose, that I may better perform the very serious duty the coming day; things of greatest moment are before me—they must be done! Yes—oh, yes! what strange dream of love is this that comes like a mountain big before me? It seems to hinder me but I will struggle still. Sleep! sleep! now a few hours' rest. *  *  *  *  *  *  *
               The sharp, perfect rays of to-day's light are upon me, and my dear old time piece says it's nine o'clock; time it is that I were stirring, by noon I remember I am to meet that—shall I say foe? or enemy? no, no, not that, but I had rather meet any foe I now have, or ever may know, than encounter the personage that a mere school-boy might conquer. I know I have it to do, and I must do it as a man, else my esteemed friends may think that I have not the iron possessed by the illustrious American to whom I have been compared. This can not be, poor heart! you may beat and beat away, but push thou on the minutie of vitality, of which thou art the mainspring, till its remotest parts become apparent. Now I am dressed for the occasion; to-day will tell for me either that misery or that happiness which will be seen in my every action, thought, word, yea, in my very life, throughout my future pilgrimage through this world of mystery. But, while I have been thinking, time has not stopped to think with me, so I must be off, my destiny I must and will know. If she refuses me, my misery is perfect, but that can not be, she never aught hath said of me but praises which have come from the centre of her honest, feelings; she loves me, she must love me!
               'Tis true, there is one thing against me; I am not rich! I have no parents here to whom I can look for assistance. She has every thing that a human being could think of, her parents wealthy, influential and in high standing. How am I to reconcile this to myself? Ah! easy enough, as she is rich and I am poor; so it is that I have the appearance to suit, have a great mind, can talk with ease, make things agreeable and pleasant to every body, and will one day have a great name; she has but the one thing—she is rich and I think truthfully that is all that can be said of her; she does not flourish a great many accomplishments, don't know much, and is almost bare-faced ugly. So then we must be (what makes me take such long breaths? I must certainly love her,) about even, one for another. So here goes I to the battle, nothing less than a battle can it be called, and one that causes more hearts to palpitate, than one where "blood like water flows."
               I have so long wished for this moment, and still I dread its approach; what poor, weak mortals we are at best. MINNIE WAYLAND, I will soon be at your mercy, at your bidding, and at your feet; a hard thing for poor man, thus to humble himself, and declare that he loves; yet I must do it for form sake, whether I love you or not. Now I'm off.
               "Ah! Miss Minnie, how does the world use you this fine day; I hope you are very well? I am certain I never saw you look so charming."
               "Very well indeed, Mr. Fumble, much obliged for your good wishes, and the compliment you paid me; you know I will prize it the more, as it comes from one who is a good judge."
               "Thank you, thank you, I can appreciate your taste in this matter of judgment; many of my friends have told me that same thing. I suppose you will think I am extravagant, I have just laid out some fifty or sixty dollars for replenishing my wardrobe, I always think it right to dress well.—Good fit the tailor has made, don't you think so?
               
               "It is excellent, and you have made a happy selection, as every thing is quite becoming to you."
               "I think something of going on a tour of pleasure, soon, I think it would be good for my health, and I would have a better opportunity of developing the powers of my mind; some of my most interested—esteemed friends, believe that if I would travel through Europe I would return so improved I would create quite a sensation. (Ah! me, how will I ever come to the point?) Did you know I had been compared to WEBSTER, CLAY, WASHINGTON, and other great men?"
               "No, I did not; but have you though?"
               "It is a fact, Miss Minnie, and I think it was somewhat complimentary, what think you?"
               "It must be considered a compliment of no ordinary magnitude, it is not every one who is compared to such great men. (I wonder if this is what he calls "popping the question"?) have you ever traveled much Mr. Fumble?"
               "I have been somewhat of a traveler, for one of my age, and think I have profited much in so doing; by the way, this puts me in mind of many beautiful pieces of music I have witnessed the performance of, the sweet and melodious songs I so oft have heard, and among all my acquaintances, and of all persons I never heard one sing, whose voice sounded so thrillingly musical, sweet, and heaven-like, as Miss Minnie's; will you not favor me now with some of your newest and best songs? there is something so bewitching, captivating and enchanting in a song which portrays the inward soul to the outer world."
               "Such an eloquent appeal, I could not resist, but I trust you will not feel disappointed if I do not sing a very lengthy one, for I do not feel so much like singing, I have had rather a bad cold for several days. (I am sure he came on purpose to day to ask me, and I declare if he goes on this way I will have to ask him if he had any particular reason for making an appointment to see me at home to day.) And besides that, you must make allowance for my embarrassment, in singing for one who so perfectly understands music."
               "By all means, if my presence would in any way embarrass you, it shall be taken into consideration."
               "This piano is not exactly in tune either, but I will try and get along the best I can; a few verses from the "Lament of a Dying Bachelor," I trust will not be out of place: 
                     
                        Oh! now alas! come view this sight,
                        The miseries of my life
                        See I am sad—alone to night,
                        Oh! that I had a wife.
                     
                     
                        She might bless me as I'm dying
                        Might cool a feverish brow;
                        Or view me as in vain I'm trying
                        My lips to moisten now.
                     
                     
                        The night is dark and I'm alone,
                        Except a hired nurse
                        Who heeds not now my pain or moan
                        Or knows I'm growing worse.
                     
                     
                        What now, though, I have cash,
                        Is all this world to me;
                        Oh! I'd give freely all my trash,
                        A married man to be.'
                     
                  
               
               "My dear Miss Minnie, I must think that you have composed this yourself for the occasion, I never heard of a song by that name before, and it should be a warning to all well-disposed young men, not to procrastinate, but marry when young to save themselves such misery. (Now is my time to come at once to the point, if not, the longer I stay the worse I will get, she has been looking for the news I know by that song; she is dying almost, to hear me ask her if she will have me. What a predicament this places a man in—nothing like looking into the air, and nothing to stand on, but everything is easy enough now, I've only to make the thing known, and soon we will be plighted—a mere matter of form, but sooner over the better.) "My dear Minnie, I hope you will excuse me for being silent the last few moments, I assure you I could not avoid it; my heart has been almost bursting with emotion ever since I came into this room to-day, I have wished to make known to you the feelings which have long thrilled my very soul, life, existence, and which I can no longer withold from you. Minnie! dear Minnie! I love you to wildest distraction, and now bow at thy feet, begging that you will at once make me the most happy of all whom love hath ever inspired, or drive me into madning despair, such as Cupid hath never yet beheld! Will you, can you, do you love me, and will you have me to be your protector through all the meandering scenes of life? Minnie, I will ever love thee true as now, yes, in every trial, under all circumstances, yours, ever yours; life is nothing to me if I cannot enjoy it alone with you. What more can I say or do? Will you, will you again speak? let me hear but one sweet word from those dear lips, and let that make me happy; I pledge you my all; my every exertion will be but a pleasure, if those exertions can only make you happy. (Now, what am I going to say here on my knees, before a lady who will not speak to me; a funny world this; I fear she is not so ugly for nothing, but is determined on trying my patience to the full. I wish she would say something, I don't know how I shall commence again.) Do speak to me and let me know my doom, is there anything I can do which would be pleasing in your sight, angelic creature, if so, tell me what it is, and I obey."
               "Mr. Fumble"—
               "Dear Minnie, I am near thee."
               "If you would please me, remain as you are a few moments, till we talk this matter over."
               "Yes, thou dearest object of my life, if it be for a day, to bow before thee, I will do as you bid me, all I ask is, that you do not drive me from your presence."
               "Then you say you love me with all your heart, and ask my hand in marriage, do I understand you right!"
               "Yes, it is as you have said, I love thee, if man doth know what love is."
               "You think you could make me happy, could love me through young life, the trials of middle age, and the time-worn frame of declining age."
               "I could; no changes of seasons, fortunes or happiness should ever change me, for you I would live, and for you die."
               "Think you that I love you too? now don't you Mr. Fumble, else you would not have asked my hand in marriage, and declared such undying love for me?"
               "Sweet Minnie, I did think you loved me, and yet hope so; do now tell me, keep me not longer in such agony of soul."
               "Well, all that I can say is, that you are sorrowfully, and signally mistaken, (take a seat if you please, on the sofa,) and now sir allow me to give you a piece of advice as a friend, you have no parents here I believe to give you advice; if this is your first attempt at 'popping the question,' you have done very well, but before you make the second effort you must learn that the people are making sport of you; do not talk so much about you and yourself, think of illustrious men as good men, not as men you resemble in intellectual appearances, lower the estimation of yourself, be careful who you place you tender affections on, and go to the school of common sense for a few years, and you will have done more than you can ever do in any other way. With the best wishes for your improvement, and well-doing, your dear 'dear Minnie' must bid you good bye, good bye, Mr. Fumble."
               
               
                  Oh! wretch, oh! insignificant dupe!
                  Can this be myself? or some poor fool,
                  Whom I have pictured in my imagination,
                  In days past? days in which life had.
                  
                  Some hope of sweetness, and when I had
                  Meritorious objects to be accomplished,
                  Before my eyes? Yes, if that mirror
                  Does not deceive me as the world has,
                  It is me, or so much as is of me left.
                  Was there ever mortal so shamefully
                  Deceived by woman? I cannot admit it,
                  That such is true, that I have become
                  The most disgusting of all the objects
                  Of woman's fancies.
                  To think that even with a falsehood on
                  My lips, and a heart with ambition
                  Bursting, and bowed at her feet in
                  The humblest manner, with declarations
                  In eloquence sounded, of eternal
                  Fidelity, and her name sweetly called
                  In every sentence, with all this and more,
                  I could not call her mine, drives me
                  As a hideous wolf to some work
                  Of destruction, blood and carnage,
                  That no human mind shall tolerate.
                  'Tis said "when rogues quarrel, honest
                  People get their rights;" so too when lovers
                  Cannot strike a fair bargain, then each
                  Are at liberty again to dispose of their
                  Own thoughts; and I will take advantage
                  Of this and use my own thoughts.
                  Oh! the cruel, unfeeling, heartless woman!
                  Thus to trifle with all that is dear
                  To me, is what some forlorn wretch
                  Who nothing does but dream of sorrow,
                  Might look for on the coming morrow!
                  But which I had no right to think
                  Would be my lot; thus near bringing me to the brink
                  Of a matrimonial reality,
                  And then end it with such fatality.
                  How shall I be avenged? or what
                  Slippery hope am I now to fall on?
                  Nothing. I have been the common stock,
                  In which every knave or fool has dealt,
                  Who wished a laugh at the expense of another,
                  Washington! Webster! Clay! Jackson!
                  Have the fiends called your ashes
                  Into life that they might pollute your names
                  To make a gas-bag of me, which has
                  This day exploded, by being trampled under
                  The feet of woman? Yes, too true,
                  By an ugly, misformed, bad tempered,
                  Hateful woman. I have called her,
                  It is very true, dear Minnie,
                  Better far, that I had called her MONEY,
                  For 'twas that which inspired me,
                  A sacrifice in myself to offer,
                  That when once I owned her coffer,
                  I'd speedily gain my wished-for fame,
                  While she'd lose nothing but her name.
                  Now my dream is realized,
                  And after this mighty rage, I feel
                  Very much like being quiet once more.
                  I am sleepy, tired, exhausted, for this
                  Time I must think no longer, my thoughts
                  Have quite run away with me indeed, and led
                  Me into trouble. I must now to rest."
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               A SOUND LADY WITH THIRTY THOUSAND AND NO POOR KIN!!
               Being so near to a considerable sized city, and having been rather "favorably struck" with Ohio, Fumble lands himself in Cincinnatti, where he will give us a little insight into matters:—"You must hereafter look upon me in a somewhat different light—I have up to the present given you an account of my love scrapes as they occurred in the country, now it remains for me to let you know what I have been doing since I began to live a city life.
               
               In the fall of 18—and drink cold water, I went to the "Queen City of the West," commonly called Cincinnati, thinking I would stop there for a while. I was an entire stranger in the place, and you will no doubt wonder how it is that I got into any love affairs where I was not known, but when you remember the various and multiplied ways of forming acquaintances, you must remember also that I have resorted to nearly all the known plans to let myself be heard of where circumstances seemed to require it.
               You must not, therefore be surprised to think that I did not long remain such a perfect stranger in Cincinnatti, for I found it necessary to have some acquaintances there as well as any other place that I had been to.
               As I expected to remain in the city for some length of time, I found it would be much more economical to spend my time at a boarding house, and accordingly procured one where it would be convenient to attend to my little matters and go to my meals without much trouble. As is frequently the case in cities I found myself boarding with a widow lady and her two pretty good-looking daughters; one of them was better looking than the other, but still they were both tolerably fair.
               They kept a piano in the parlor, but whether it belonged to their mother, or whether it was a hired piece of machinery, I am not willing nor able to say, but any how they played on it very well, and a very great deal of it. I think I had been boarding with them for nearly two weeks before we got well acquainted, and then all things went on as well as usual in boarding houses. Wishing to make themselves as agreeable as they could, the young ladies gave a party one night, to which they invited me. When night came on, I went down to the parlor, though I felt a little squeamish about the matter, for I never had been in the society of city ladies very much.
               There was a considerable chance of the fair and beautiful ladies, intermingled with an equal portion of good-looking young men present, who seemed to be enjoying themselves to the full and overflowing of human sociability.
               I was introduced in a general manner to the whole crowd, and in a special manner to one beautiful young lady by the name of Miss Wall; I did not go any farther to seek company, but sat right down by her, and commenced talking at the rate of "rack back-double-shuffle," all in heaps. I do not know exactly how long I talked to her, but long enough to become quite familiar, and by the time I had finished, she went so far as to give me her number, and invited me to call and see her, which I promised to do.
               I discovered that she had taken "quite a fancy to me," and her eyes were on me wherever I went. In the course of the evening I saw her talking to one of the young ladies that lived at the house, at the same time pointing at me, which she thought I did not observe, but I did.
               I did not let on, however, and in about half an hour after, I saw them talking together again; it was not long before the young lady made an excuse to come over to where I was, and commenced a conversation with me. Says she:
               "Mr. Fumble I've got something to tell you, if you won't tell anybody."
               "Well, go ahead, I won't tell, unless you wish me—what is it?"
               "Miss Wall, the young lady that I introduced you to not long ago, has become greatly smitten with you, and it is very seldom she thinks about the young men much; she is of a very fine family, her parents are dead, and she has thirty thousand dollars left her; she has got a nice house on F—— street, plenty of fine furniture, and everything you could ask for; besides all that, she is pretty, intelligent, good natured, and understands everything about music, as well as keeping a house in good order; I think you would "fall in love with her if you were to keep her company a short time."
               I thought of that fine house, that thirty thousand dollars, and that made her look four hundred per cent, better than she did at first sight. I promised the young lady that nothing should be lacking on my part, towards bringing about a happy state of things with Miss Wall and myself, for I was the best pleased with her of any I had ever seen; she then left me to go around among her friends for a short time, and I remained alone, with a vacant seat by my side; it was not long before Miss Wall made it in her way to pass near where I was, and looked at me as pleasing as a bottle of whiskey; I could not keep from asking her to have a seat, expecting that she must be very tired; she accepted, took the vacant seat close to me, and then I let out as I never did before in all my life.
               My words became so magnified in a short time that I could barely get them out of my mouth, and very often they fell out two at once across each other. We talked away most of the evening without noticing what was going on, feeling entirely contented with each other's society.
               When the party was breaking up, I asked her if she had any company home. She said one of her cousins was with her that evening, or she would be very happy to have me accompany her. I was dreadful sorry her cousin had not staid at home, but I had the number and the street where she lived, and thought there could be no difficulty in finding her out.
               Next morning the young lady who had recommended Miss Wall so highly, came into the parlor where I was, and asked me how I had been pleased the evening before! I told her very well indeed, but that I should be much better pleased if she would go over with me to where Miss Wall lived, as I was not acquainted with the streets at that time: this she readily agreed to do at any time I might choose.
               A few evenings after that, we went to call on Miss Wall, whom we found at home, and glad to see us, and particularly me. It was hardly so cold as to require a fire, but yet it was cool. We had not been there long, when the young lady that went with me found it necessary to take the light into the back parlor, and equally as requisite to keep it there leaving Miss Wall and I in the front parlor in the dark; it is not very pleasant to be left alone with a young lady in the dark, but still I concluded not to make any fuss about it, not knowing whether they intended to hurt me or not. An hour and a half passed in this way without me being molested, so I said nothing against the practice.
               Directly after the light went out we took seats on the sofa, and in spite of me I got very close to her, took hold of her hand, and commenced talking in a low whisper; she talked to me in the same way, let her hand remain in mine, and thus we went on making love to each other as fast as we could, knowing that there was no one to see or hear us.
               I was thinking what a happy time I would have of it, with the thirty thousand and a nice young wife, and I fell in love with the gal at the rate of a mile a minute, till I was in love all over. I had as great a mind to "pop the question" that night as I ever had to do anything in my life, but fearing a hasty kick would knock the soup all over, I concluded to wait until next time to see how things went. I am greatly in favor of a fair, plain, honest statement, and now if it wont shock your nerves, I will out with the honest truth.
               Well, you remember I said that I had her hand in mine, and she did not take it away: in a short time, I ventured to lay one hand on her shoulder, to which she had no loud speaking objections, and so I went on till she was leaning over towards me, and I had my arms full. "Smack" went a kiss over her busser. "What's that?" says she, but did not move. "Nothing," says I, applying a second dose of the same remedy.
               At this loving rate, I became so much attached to her, that I felt round to see if there was not a rope that held us together, but did not discover anything of the kind. "Everything has to have an end;" so says the newspapers and philosophers, and after awhile the light was brought in, but we were found sitting some distance apart, a trip homeward was proposed, and I was soon on my way back to my boarding house, in company with the same young lady I had gone with, leaving Miss Wall at home thinking of me.
               As we went on home, the young lady asked me how I was pleased with Miss Wall's company; to which I replied "very well." Some few other things were talked of with due degree of interest, but one still more interesting came up before we reached home. Says she;
               "I am requested to offer you an apology."
               "What for?"
               "Well, didn't you smell something peculiar at Miss Wall's to-night."
               "Yes I thought it was rather a peculiar smell: it was cologne or rose water, I spose, or some other nice thing!"
               "Oh! me, but how kind you are to turn it off so well; no, it was nothing more nor less than some dead rats! They became so troublesome that poison was fixed for them, and they died in different parts of the house, leaving a disagreeable smell, which cannot be remedied, as the rats are buried in the wall of the house, where they cannot be got out; I hope you will make due allowance for this as it is unavoidable!"
               "Oh certainly, certainly."
               Although I had pretended to think the "peculiar odor" which was smellible that night, to be cologne or rose water, I was not of that opinion and would not have believed it if any one had sworn to it, for it was so strong that it turned my nose to one side several times, and would have acted as a virulent poison, only for the loving presence of the dear Miss Wall, who was sweet enough to counteract all bad odors, and make me feel as happy as a dead dog at New-Year's day-break.
               The young lady was right, however, as the odor proceeded from the source which she had stated, as I afterwards learned from Miss Wall. I should never have named it to any, even if nothing explanatory had been said on the subject, but it was a particularly distressing bad smell. That was what caused the young lady to leave the room, as before stated, and not as I had supposed to give Miss Wall and me a chance to talk over love affairs.
               I did not go back until I heard the bad odor had all disappeared, for I did not feel as if I could stand it so long another time. When I did pay the next visit, nothing could be smelt but otto of roses, cologne, orange flower water, musk, and all them nice things, which made up for the bad dose I had taken on my first visit. Miss Wall looked as nice as ever, and nicer, too, for as I first told you, I did not smell them dead rats, and I was extremely glad of it.
               We had the parlor all to ourselves that night, as there was no one there but she and I, that I could see, and so there was nothing to interrupt our happiness, or talkability. Things proceeded in about the same way, for some time, as they had done on the visit, but I lost control of my mouth, and just as she fell over into my arms once, I said to her:
               "I am almost dead in love with you; will you tell me at once, and in the fewest number of words possible, if you will have me? I have not language nor time to tell you, how much I love you, but I love you out of all reason, and just think I will make as good a husband as anybody, I don't care where they come from!"
               
               She hesitated a moment, but I kept telling her how I loved her, and what a happy time we would have together; what we would follow; what I would do; and a mighty heap of other things, till she said "YES," I told her I was much obliged to her, took a few kisses, talked a long time, and then I went home.—As I was going along, I could not help feeling very strange somehow; I felt like there was a great big little wall around me, and no chance to get out, and thought I had got into the ring in a little of the fastest hurry of any man I had ever heard of; but when I thought of the thirty thousand, I didn't grunt another time, but went home and fell into the arms of—Morpheus.
               Next evening, I went back again, to see what day would be set for solemnizing the rights of matrimony between us. I was anxious that the wedding should take place as soon as possible, for I had been fooled so often in one thing or another, that I was almost afraid to take even my own word for anything.
               I found her in the sweetest temper that human beings are capable of assuming, with a thousand inquiries after my health during my absence of one day, which she said seemed like a whole month to her. After many round-about questions of one kind or another, I came flat out on the platform of our future happiness, and asked her what time we should be married. With all the affability of the fairest and most lovely, she said to me:
               "Not I, it is, will set the day, but I leave everything to you; I expect to obey you now as well as through the entire course of our lives: you say what time; I am ready any time you may say."
               This was a fastner, and then to think of the thirty thousand, the beautiful wife, and one, who loved me so much that she would obey me even before marriage, was quite sufficient to make me feel "a little of the largest.' I proposed a day, a time a place, which was two weeks after that time: this she agreed to with smiles and kisses, that made me tremble all over in streaks and patches.
               Every arrangement being made, all things being understood, I returned home—that is, to the boarding-house well contented with my bargain; now didn't I soliloquise again!
               
               "I reckon, now, that everything is right; thirty thousand dollars to begin with, and the prettiest wife in all the western world: I always thought that some such a chance as this would make me feel just as I wanted; I'll go back to see my brothers and sisters in the finest style they have ever seen any body; I wonder what they will all have to say about "little Fudge," now? they've always been saying I never would be any account, like a roving Irishman or a fool dog; now, I think they'll hush; but still I won't crow over them, it would not look well for me to do that; well, well, I'm glad as I can be, that's all I can say,"
               I called every day to see the dear creature, and the more I went the oftener I went, the worser I wanted to see her; I congratulated myself that the time was not far off, though, and was determined to bear everything the best I could, hoping to be with her all the time after we were married; but I had my fears something might still happen to prevent us from being united in love; and then away went my bright hopes, the thirty thousand, my every thing, and besides that, they all might still call Fudge a fool. One evening, only a few days before the wedding was to come off, I went to see her again, as usual, and now for the rest.
               It was a little after dark, the parlor lamp was lighted, something which was very unusual, and we sat down on the sofa together to talk; we had been sitting there but a short time, when in ran a little boy about four or five year sold, and bawled out very keenly, and as if he had been taught it:
               "Oh! Ma, is that the man you said was to be our Pa?" and, as he said it, four others, varying in size from one year to six, came running in repeating the same inquiry.
               
               "Mud terrapins, dogs' heads, and burnt feathers, who ever heard the like," was my general feelings then, and in something less than one minute I bounced up, grabbed my hat and shot for the door; I was trapped in that movement, for the door was fastened so that I did not know how to get it open; seeing this I turned round, and saw the young Miss Wall and all the children streaming after her on my pursuit; she blazed out like a fierce wild cat, "what are you trying to run off for? I'll learn you better tricks than that in a few years!'
               I could not tell what to do, but was determined not to stand there, for the woman looked like she would wollop me in a minute, if I failed to do as she might direct, so I struck my course, making for down the basement, knocking down two or three young ones as I went, and starting them to screaming woefully; this only increased the fury of the already maniacal woman, who yelled out a few times and right after me she came. She followed me down stairs, up stairs, around, through, and over that house for nearly an hour, before I got away from her, which I did by breaking out the back door, and then jumping the paling which, fortunately put me once more in the street, in a living condition.
               Fearing that she might follow me to my boarding house, as soon as I reached there I paid the good woman what I was owing her, called a carriage, threw into it my trunk and myself, and ordered the driver to take me away from there as fast as the city authorities would permit him to go.
               I went to a hotel that night, but next day I hunted a new boarding house, and never went back to hear of Miss Wall, but I learned subsequently, that instead of the thirty-thousand dollars! she was thirty years old, had been married three times, and was surrounded with the nice little sum of six children of her own, and nothing to support them on, only the charity of a wealthy uncle, at whose house she was living, during his absence from the city.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               MISFORTUNES OF MISTAKING IDENTITY.
               FUDGE Fumble, poor fellow, keeps rambling, and the next place we find him is in the city of Gotham, frequently called New York. Perhaps he may go on a "bust," suppose we follow on?
               I will do away with the ordinary formalities of introductions, and just make a short statement of facts in the fewest number of words possible. By some means, which might not interest you to know, I became acquainted with a young lady, not the first one by any means, by the name of Miss Medora Klick, who is to be the principal object of my attentions for the present. It so happened, accidentally, intentionally, or otherwise, that I was so fortunate as to meet with her at two or three parties, accompanied by her brother only. I was pleased with her appearance, her manners and her accomplishments.
               Her brother was very much of a gentleman, about twenty-three years old, and of fine personal appearance; he and I often went together; was fond of each others society, and I was remarkably fond of his sister, and her society. I thought I was now in the place where honesty of purpose—a heart full of affection—would be appreciated, and my spirits were "worth keeping."
               One evening there was to be a party at her father's house, and, very naturally, I was invited to be present; I wanted to appear in the best style that I could, and took unusual pains in "primping up;" I had some of the best Cologne, Lubin's Extract, Rose Tooth Powder, and all the fine fixings, which I endeavored to make use of to the best advantage; I brushed up my teeth, took a shave, washed over my face with Cologne, and, as a finishing touch, when I was starting out, I put a large quantity of the Lubin on my handkerchief, and after folding it carefully, put it in my coat pocket, to take out when I got into the best of the crowd that night.
               Being fixed as well as I was able to do for myself, I went to the party, where I found a large number of persons, ladies and gentlemen, most of whom were perfect strangers to me. In the midst of the crowd I did not feel as comfortable as I had anticipated, at first, but before long I got into conversation with some of the young ladies, when the time passed off quite pleasantly.
               I had a disposition to see Miss Medora Klick worse than all of the rest of the party put together; I could see her it is very true, but what I mean is, that I wanted to set down in some unobserved corner, and have a long chat, but this I could not expect, as she had to do all she could to entertain her friends, whom she had invited to be with her on the occasion.
               In the course of the evening though, I got with several young ladies off to one side, and among the the number was Medora; then I thought of my finely perfumed handkerchief, drew it from my pocket, rubbed over my face a time or two, pressed particularly hard around the region of the nose, and put it back into my pocket.
               In less than a minutes time I felt an awful hot sensation, creeping over my face, and also the hand with which I had held the handkerchief; it got worse and worse every moment, and in a short sime I was in the most perfect agony; some person stepped up to me and asked me what was the matter with my face. I said I did not know, but it felt like it was on fire all the time; I then went to a looking glass to see if I could tell what was the matter, and if my face wasn't in black streaks all over you may shoot me, and my hand was in the same fix, or a litle worse.
               On reflection I remembered that there was a bottle of "Aqua-fortis" setting in the same place with the Lubin and Cologne, and I had in my haste, put it on instead of the Lubin. Seeing that I was in a bad fix, I excused myself and went home, to try and
                     The dark results of carelessness in perfuming one's handkerchief. Page 202.
                  
                   save part of my face any how. I was in too much pain to do anything for myself and sent for a physician; I rolled and tumbled, wrung my hands, walked about, laid down, got up, tried to cry, jumped from one part of the room to another, like a mad man, and screamed as loud as a three year old panther.
               The physician managed to soothe my sufferings in a few minutes, advised me to be more careful next time and then left me. It was more than two weeks before I recovered sufficiently to go out, but when I did make a start again, I called on Miss Medora the first one, to express to her my heartfelt sorrow for being the cause of any confusion at her party; she was so kind and entertaining, that she soon made me forget the mishap that had befallen me, and I found myself seated by her side, doing some of my best talking.
               Considering everything, this accident was of a formidable character, for it left some marks on my face that will be seen when I am an old man, if I should live; besides this, the thought of having to leave the party, and that at the house of the sweet Medora, was nearly as killing as small-pox or cholera on a man's feelings. But as it was then too late to remedy the case, I made no complaint whatever, but expressed my sincere regret that such a thing should occur to interrupt the pleasure of the evening; even this did not make my face any better, so after a reasonable time I dropped the subject unless it was spoken of by some other person, for it was anything but a pleasant reflection, therefore I did not wish to hear of it any more.
               I believe the matter was forgotten before long, at least I heard nothing more of it, and then it was that I felt better about it. I was greatly pleased with Miss Medora, and as things looked rather favorable, I commenced a regular courtship, being made of such susceptible material, it did not take long for me to find myself up to the eyebrows in love, and as I had learned to "pop the question," from a long personal experience, I decided to inquire into the feelings of Miss Medora.
               Her brother and myself were so very intimate, and she appeared to think so much of her brother, and me too, that I anticipated but little trouble in winning her heart, hand, and property, if she had any. This Miss Medora Klick had a sister called Miss Sallie Klick, and, by-the-by, or by something else, they were what is called "twin-sisters;" they were so much alike, that it was a difficult matter for many persons to tell "which from t'other," and I was one of these many persons—I found it hard, sometimes, to tell them apart myself.
               This brother, the two twin sisters, and the old folks, constituted the family; I was there so often, that I supposed they almost considered me one of the family, but still we were no kin, only the good feelings that existed between Miss Medora and myself, and which I hoped would be of long continuance and increasing interest.
               I had now become very intimate with the family, and the two young ladies, their brother and I, went together to the various places of amusement, on pleasure trips, &c. One time we went out of the city to a place well known to New Yorkers, called "High Bridge," to spend a few hours.
               Although it was very wrong, we went on Sunday, a day which is set apart for worship, and doing those things which are good and holy, and nothing else. It was about the beginning of the warm weather, and many persons had gone out of the city to spend the day at this favorite resort; there were a few places where they kept ice creams, cakes, confectionery and fancies of different kinds, on both sides of the river, near the bridge; as is customary, we all went into one of these saloons to get refreshments; when we got in, we saw a large number of persons of a much inferior class to what we were in the habit of associating with, but as we did not intend staying only a few minutes, we thought we could put up with them.
               We sat down to one of the tables, and called for what we wanted, among other things some ice cream; while there, wishing to compliment the proprietor a little, we remarked that "he had given us the first 'ice cream' that season." A full-grown Irishman, who happened to be standing close to us, misunderstood us, and thought we said "Irish Greenhorn;" as soon as he could collect a little courage, he jumped up, threw off his extra clothes, swore he could whip all of Ameriky put together, and bounced right on to young Mr. Klick; he was so much stouter than Klick, that he crushed him to the floor at once. The young ladies screamed out aloud for their brother, at the same time looking anxiously at me.
               I was in a most splendid fix for fighting, prompted as I was in that instance, by a sense of stern duty, and raised up immediately, laid hold of a big oak chair that I was sitting in, and down I brought it over Paddy's noggin; this effectually put a stop to his thought of whipping all "Ameriky," for he was as senseless as a log of wood, having dropped to the floor as limber as wet leather.
               I hoped this would end the matter, but by the time I had sat down in the chair, some one else was on me and put me to the floor; young Klick had recovered by this time, and believing that "one good turn deserved another," he took up a chair and laid my assailant to one side, which turned out to be another Paddy, trying to whip "Ameriky." In a few moments, some half a dozen more of their crowd came on, and we would have found ourselves in rough hands but for the assistance of some gentlemen, who came in at that moment; they took an interest in our welfare, and we soon routed the ruffian gang, including the two who had been knocked over with the chair.
               This affair more firmly cemented the already existing bonds of friendship between the family and myself self, and now I thought it time for me to name the question of marrying Miss Medora; I could not see any reason why I should not be "eminently successful," for everything looked favorable.
               Meeting with a suitable opportunity, I came out flat on the subject, with as little ceremony as possible; she held down her head for a moment, then raising it suddenly, she said: "I will give you an answer when you come again."
               This was a stopping point, so I said nothing more on the subject that evening. There was no particular time set for me to come again, or any stated hour; I, therefore, thought that I could go as soon as I chose; accordingly I went back two or three evenings after, to hear the final answer. I went to the door, rang the bell, asked the servant if Miss Medora was in, walked into the parlor and sat down: in a moment she came running in with a cheerful countenance, and apparent light heart, gave me a hearty shake of the hand, and both of us took seats on the sofa. I tried to be calm and collected, but it was impossible; my heart kept beating away, I trembled waiting for the answer, and there I sat, saying nothing to the purpose. Thinking she would not be likely to give an answer unless I named the subject again, I moved up close to her, put my arm around her neck in an affectionate manner, and commenced fondling her in a loving way, that made me desire an answer more than ever.
               Of course, I had to go over the same ground again, telling my love for her, how it was that I had never loved any one before, and a hundred other marks of devotion. She seemed to be speechless, but did not move my arm which was encircled around her; I could not get her to give an answer or say anything else, and so I thought I would be still more eloquent. I was going on at a rate previously unheard of in popping the question, hoping to win a heart by my extra exertions, when all at once another female form darkened the door, looked wildly around, centered her eyes on me for a moment, then uttered a loud shriek, and fell prostrate on the floor.
               The house was in an uproar in a moment; the old man, his wife, and son, as well as the servants, were all at the door nearly as quick as I was: the young lady was taken up, and who do you think it was? nobody else but my own dear Medora! Streaks of human destiny, and gold watches for dinner, what has happened now?" It did not require long to tell what had happened; the servant had called the wrong one of the young ladies, and being so much alike, I did not notice which one it was, for I was greatly excited, and the light in the parlor was very dim; she had taken a seat by my side; I was showering my affections on her, had my arm around her neck, and "popped the question" to her: Miss Medora, who loved me so devotedly, came to the door accidentally, and seeing me so closely, so affectionately engaged with her sister, could not stand the shock, but fell to the floor, as before remarked, almost lifeless.
               She was soon restored to consciousness, but never restored to me; she had told her parents of my proposal, they had consented, but now that I had proposed to both, they would scarcely let me off from the house alive, and while both sisters stood there relating their misfortunes and telling of my villainy, to their parents, I opened the hall door, let myself out, and hurried away, without being allowed time for an explanation.
               I have never called at the house from that time till this, and I suppose the family think I acted very dishonorably, but I trust this explanation will be received as satisfactory, if not, we must remain on the same terms as we have been for some time.
               Thus you see the misfortune of courting "the twin sisters of Gotham."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               A JUMP FROM THE FOURTH STORY.
               Fumble is now getting excited, and as we want to hear the end of his troubles if possible, we must give way while he is talking:—"Almost every person would think that I had been in love scrapes sufficient to satisfy me, as well as those with whom I was more intimately concerned, that it was a laborious, a trying business, but it falls to my lot to record another case, showing still further the mishaps that have beset me in this life.
               The case detailed when I saw you last, cured me of the disposition to love the "fair sex," for two or three months; or, in other words, I did not go with any young ladies for that length of time, and I was thinking I would back out entirely from the field, but about this time I happened to be with a friend, paying a visit to one of the Portrait Galleries of New York, and while there he met with a young lady, an acquaintance of his, to whom he gave me an introduction. Some nights after this he called at my room and asked me if I did not want to go with him to call on this young lady—Miss Henrietta Pinkney—living in ——— Avenue, at the same time remarking that he had seen her since the night I was introduced to her, and she was perfectly crazy to become better acquainted with me—was in love with me and no mistake.
               It may be very honest in me to make a confession of it, but I will do it, and that is, that I was all in a blaze to see her again; it always did put me in a terrible way if I heard a young lady was about to fall in love with me, but it seemed to operate more powerfully in this case than usual. Leaving everything else out of consideration though, for the present, we did march over to Miss Pinkney's, and now for the race which I ran, it being begun more particularly and more effectually on that night.
               We walked in, and when we found that we were in, I looked around to see what I could see in that parlor, and in that house, which I did in a sort of a hurry, before the young lady came in, and I found that it was a parlor of no small size, and beautifully set off with paintings, engravings, &c. I looked around for a moment and thus soliloquized: "What a fortunate thing I did not marry out in the back-wood! Here I stand as good a chance to get a wife as I did there, and if I do marry here I will be apt to get a woman who has an education, something that I have so long wished for, and I think the prospect is brightening a little after all, so that I hope I shall not die an old bachelor any way—it is horrible to think of it; but I—"
               Here I was interrupted by the young lady coming in and running up to me, shaking me by the hand, asking how I had been, what was the good news, and a general run of conversation, that led to nothing in an especial manner, only killing time, for an hour at least, when my young friend requested her to give us some music on the piano, which she did in the most graceful manner, driving love knots and arrows through my very liver, lungs, and melt, every time she touched the wires.
               I never had such feelings in my life; I could hear my internal organs beating, thumping, blowing, and rising up and down like the waves of the mighty ocean, as I sat down there viewing her, to see whether she was an angel, or was she just like some of the fleshy creatures I had met in life, who made it a point to drive my expectations into the ground by some means or other. I resolved that I would make one effort more, and that effort consisted in making love to that girl, for I thought she was in a loving fix; she kept looking over at me, once in a while, mighty good-natured like, and then she would turn away her head, draw in her breath very fast, put her hand on her side, and act very curious in every way.
               
               I could not tell what else to attribute it to unless it was the love she had for me, which my young friend had told me of; the symptoms were those that I had often heard of as belonging exclusively to those affected with the tender passion. I had been told that she was almost "crazy" about me, and, therefore, I decided she loved me most cruelly and in a fatal manner.
               We staid there that night until a late hour, had some fine music, heard a lot of good singing, tasted some wine of the best brand several times, eat a few cakes, told a few tales, and broke up.
               A more pressing invitation I never received in my life to call and see the young lady; the best of it was, that the old folks had gone to bed and she gave the invite herself, which I appreciated much more highly, for she put great stress on the "YOU MUST CALL." I promised to do so, and didn't half try, bowed politely as I could, gritted my teeth when I looked at her pretty face, jumped up to think how happy we would be if we were married, felt in my pocket for my hat, in my ears for my gloves, in my boots for my teeth, and then we strolled out.
               As we were going on, the young man told me that if I could get that young lady I would jump right into a fortune, "for," says he, "her father is very wealthy and is President of F——— Bank, and owns large property in the city.
               "Now is my time, or never; I have been fooling along with this one, that one, which, what and 'tother, long enough; here is a chance for a fortune, and no mistake; the young man would not tell me anything wrong about the case, for I have been a good friend of his and he knows it; her father President of a bank and has lots of property besides; this will be quite convenient, for I expect to stop in this great city the rest of my life, and perhaps longer; no house rent to pay, a pretty wife, money!—yes, loads of it—now won't I make things shine? I will go over to London just so certain as I get that girl for a wife; "go it, boots," Fudge will come out yet; I feel my keeping all over at this time; I'll make one of the tallest speeches yet made by any body or General Wolf besides."
               This is a detachment of my feelings. "On arriving at my room that night, which was a quarter after twelve next morning; I built castles, banks, steamships, dry docks and Russ pavements, in the air or in my immagination, I could not now say which, until overcome with fatigue, glory and future expectations, I fell to sleep."
               At the earliest opportunity I made it convenient to call on Miss Henrietta, MERELY to comply with my promise, and also to see how the good lady would treat me; I had been bit so often I thought it best to look before I jumped.
               Everything went off as it had done in the first instance—finely—and I had no cause to complain of anything; the old gentleman, Miss Pinkney's father came into the parlor while I was there; the young lady gave me an introduction to him; we had some talk together, while she was playing on the piano, and all things got on well till the old folks went to bed.
               I remained until it was late, endeavoring to do everything that I could to make myself familiar with the young lady of fortune; I had been brought up in the backwoods among the wild beasts, mud terrapins, and 200 darkies, and did not understand all the usages of society in a large city like New York; this was often a cause of regret, but I got over it to some extent by reading a book of "etiquette" occasionally.
               Notwithstanding this, some of the habits of southern life could be seen in my daily and nightly walks through the notorious Gotham. The night of which I am now speaking turned out famous for me; I made considerable advances towards winning the dear one's heart. I thought I had better not get along too fast though, and instead of sitting so close as I had been in the habit of doing on other occasions I kept my distance. She was sitting on the sofa, and I took a chair a little distance off to "talk across the room to see how it would do.
               Things became so amazingly agreeable, that I could keep my seat no longer, but got up, flourished my arms around at a circle of two or three feet, in a great hurry, while I was relating some exciting, laughable and amusing scene in southern life, at the close of which, the young lady and I joined in a real shaking laugh.
               During this outburst of laughter, I sat myself down in the wrong place; I was not noticing where I took a seat, and the first intimation I had of my high position was in a gradual creaning—crack—crack—crick—smash—tumble, and over I and the centre table went all in heaps, knocking down the stove and two or three chairs, and scattering the smoke, fire and ashes, all over the room.
               The young woman, the carpet, and myself were all in a blaze of fire, I in a blaze of shame, and Miss Henrietta in a blaze of wrath, as she ran out in the hall and called for help. The carpet was burnt past mending, and the fire was making good headway on the floor, when some of the family appeared and extinguished it with a few buckets of water. Things being once more a little to rights, I made tracks for home, thinking which would be the best, to kill myself or swallow a bottle of arsenic, but finally decided upon taking a full dose of—sleep, which set my nerves steady once more.
               "Shall I ever visit there again or not? what am I to do? my misfortunes increase instead of diminish; what a great awkward fool I must have looked like setting on the table, like I had been in an Arkansaw negro cabin! but it would look still worse if I do not go back to see the family very soon, so I must do it as much as I hate it.
               Yes, I thought I could not make things any worse then, and went in a few evenings after, to call on Miss Pinkney; after a few general remarks I spoke of the incident of the night when I last called, and was preparing to offer some long apologies, but was interrupted by the young lady, who told me not to mention it, nor think of it any more, as she was well aware that it was purely accidental.
               This talk made me feel mighty good, and before the close of the evening all things were "same as ever and samer too." Having recovered from my past offences I made a great inroad on the affections of Miss Henrietta," I visited her often, she smiled on me and my intentions, and before two months had passed, we were engaged to be married. Happiness once more was mine, I felt that the troubles of this world were over, that I should have no more courting to do, or anything else but enjoy this life to its fullest extent. What made me so much prouder of the prize was, that there had been three other suitors either of whom had as much claim to her hand as I had, during the struggle. Wishing to bring the matter to a close, I asked the dear Miss Henrietta to "set a day;" she told me to come on that day week, and she would tell me what day she had selected; she desired that I should call at ten o'clock on the day she had set, so as to find her at home; she said she would be absent from home until that time, and hoped I would not think hard of her.
               I could say, or do no more than excuse her, and told her that I would call at the time she specified. The time looked longer than three men's lives, and three days over, but I had to bear it; on the appointed morning I fixed myself from top to toe, went to her father's house, a few moments before the time, and asked for Miss Henrietta; the servant was absent but a moment before she returned with a little note, directed to me, requesting on the envelope, that I would not open or read it till I got home.
               I know you are thinking I did not stay there long, and you are right, for I wanted to see when the glorious day was coming off. Some how though, as I went on I could not help thinking that it was a strange way to give an answer of that kind, but knowing young ladies were bashful sometimes, I at tributed it to that more than anything else.
               I hurried on home, running over everything in my way, including drays, dogs, school children, beggars, piles of bricks, and omnibuses.
               I went right up to my room, laid off my coat, got as quiet as possible, and thought over many things before I could open the note, which was put up beautifully. I looked back on my past life, summed up all of the trials through which I had passed, congratulated myself that the last case was the best for me after all; then taking the note, and kissing it a time or two, I took a seat by the window and broke and seal.
               It was short and sweet, like fat babies, but to the purpose; it ran as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "At Home, December 13th."
                           
                           Mr. Fumble.—Sir: In answer to your question, concerning the day set for our wedding, I have only to say that I was married this morning at eight o'clock, and will be absent on a bridal tour for two weeks; enclosed please find our card; my husband directs me to say that we will be happy to have you call on us when we return.
                           
                              Respectfully, &c.
                              MRS. HENRIETTA DRABBY.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I looked out of the window to see how far down it was to the ground, concluded to jump out, but at last walked down stairs, took a born of brandy, and dropped the subject, as usual with me on such occasions. How do you all feel? I have got over the worst.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               A PRETTY LADY WHO CAN OUT-WALK ALL HORSE-FLESH!
               The thirteenth of December cooked my love box, so that it was not open for the reception of any thing mortal until the following spring; I felt squeezed, stewed and frizzled all over in spots as big as door-shutters, owing to the sweet little note I had received and did not know whether I would ever revive or not, but the sunny days of spring thawed me into some long-continued rational conclusions.
               I was one day standing on the steps of a store on Broadway, New York, contemplating the follies and fancies of the age, and taking a view of the ladies and—dandies, as they passed; I was wondering if I ever would, or ever could make up my mind to "pop the question" to another young lady, or would it be handed down to posterity that after thirteen hard trials and innumerable misfortunes, the same" Fudge Fumble had failed to obtain a wife! The thought was particularly distressing; it made me feel that I was more than forty years old, that my hair was gray, and that I should be haunted by young babies the rest of my days.
               While I was standing there, I saw the most beautiful young lady passing along the street that I had ever laid eyes on; every thing else in the shape of beauty and loveliness faded into nothing as I looked upon her; it sent a long, strong, keen sensation through my bosom that I had never before experienced, although I had been in so many love scrapes, and I felt more like I was lost amid wonders, vague and strange, than any thing else.
               As she passed she caught a glimpse of me and centred her peepers on me; her eyes seemed to run clear through me; I could not bear the thought of losing sight of her; she was going so fast I had no time to stand there or she would soon be lost in the crowd, so that I might not have the opportunity of seeing her any more; I left the spot where I was standing, and walked on after her.
               It seemed like a foolish move in me to be following a lady on the street that I knew nothing about in any way, but the inclination was irresistible to go and away I went. From the way she looked at me when passing I had expected to see her look back to know if I was following her, but in this I was mistaken, for, she looked straight ahead and went on the same way. This did not lessen her in my estimation, neither did I desist from following on, for then I determined to follow her as much from curiosity as any particular fancy I had for her.
               I followed on, and still I followed on but she kept going at the rate for which New York ladies are noted in traveling the streets, but yet she did not reach a stopping place; she went up Broadway, down Broadway, across to the Bowery, through this street, that and the other, yet I kept after her.
               I suppose she must have walked about in this way for more than two hours; at last I saw her go in at No —— Tenth street; it was a very fine looking house, and I concluded that her position in society was equal to her super-human beauty, if her parents owned such a house as that, and could live in such style. She went in without observing that I was on her track, or perhaps ever thinking of me again after she saw me looking at her on the street.
               I had formed a determination to find her out if possible, but the question was how could I do it?—It was true that I saw her go into the house on Tenth street, but I did not know that she lived there; she might merely be calling on a friend. To satisfy myelf on this point I stationed my bones on the sidewalk, not far off with the intention of watching some time to see if she came out again; I remained there as long as I thought necessary, and as she did not come out I was of the opinion that she lived there, and went off, thinking what more I could do to become acquainted with her.
               Next day being Sunday, I thought I would go at an early hour to see if she went to Church, and if so, where she went. By this means I did not know but I might see some one that was acquainted with her. Unfortunately, just about Church time, it commenced raining, which not only drove me home, for I had no umbrella, but it also prevented her from going to Church.
               So anxious was I to become known to the good lady, and so unmercifully in love was I with her, that I found it imppossible to attend to any business, or have a moments rest day or night; I thought that I had been in love before as deeply as any person on earth, but it was all moonshine, I had never before known what love was. Now it was that I felt its influence in the most terrible manner, and its horrors were increased ten fold, from the fact that the prospect of becoming acquainted with her was exceedingly poor.
               Had I been acquainted with her, or had I known any person who was, then I might have stood a chance of making some impression on her, but now the difficulty seemed insurmountable. How much like every thing else in this life! No sooner than we hear there is something that seems impossible to do or to obtain, then our every exertion is put to work to accomplish what every one admits cannot be done. Thus it was with me in the love affair which is now under consideration.
               I loved that lady more and more every day, because I saw no prospect of making that love known to her, and this was well calculated to make my life a misery, for unless I could make her acquaintance it appeared that the whole world would be but a waste-howling wilderness to me; not a charm was there on earth for me but that one object.
               When living in the country I had never never met with any difficulties of this kind as there generally some one who could bring about an introduction, that was acquainted with the parties; but then I was in a large city where one person does not know the family that lives next door to them, once in a hundred times; besides that, the city people I knew were much more ceremonious, they would not acknowledge an acquaintance unless well recommended, and in this they could not be blamed, for otherwise they would continually be imposed on by the vicious and unprincipled.
               I quit all manner of business, to engage in thinking of some means by which I might make myself known to the lady who was running away with both my heart and happiness, for unless I did, I could not tell what would become of me. I had never become so completely knocked up in the course of my life on any point, but now I must hasten on to let you know the result of this love affair.
               On Monday morning, the sky being once more clear, I went to the street on which she lived, or where I had seen her go in, to see if I could get one more sight of her lovely—her angelic form; I passed immediately by the door, and to my great gratification I saw her just coming out, dressed in the tip of fashion, and looking as if she was going to take another walk.
               I passed on as if I did not notice her, but when I got a few steps I looked back to see which way she was going; she was making for the great thoroughfare, Broadway, so I crossed over on the opposite side of the street from her house, and went in the direction of Broadway also. I had nearly as long a walk as on the first occasion, and I wondered how it was that a little bit of a lady as she was could take such a walk, for I was nearly tired out myself, and I was hard to run down in the way of walking; I kept after her though, until I saw her return to the house.
               On the next Sunday I watched her to church, went in, asked the sexton to give me a seat, and happened to be so situated that I could look right at her all the time; she observed me eying her so closely, which attracted her attention, and she returned the looks in an interesting manner. As I had been looking at her so closely I scarcely observed anything or anybody else in church, until I felt a slight punch in the side and on turning round I saw some of my acquaintances on the next seat behind me. I was extremely glad of it, and before the church closed I had pointed out this young lady, and asked my friends if they knew her; they said they were not particularly acquainted with her, but said they knew the family very well.
               After we started home I made more inquiries after the fair lady, and asked if there was any chance for me to get an introduction to her, at the same time telling them that I was better pleased with her than any lady I had ever seen in my life. They told me that if I was anxious to become acquainted with her they would bring it about to which I replied I was quite anxious. Arrangements were then made to have it attended to and I left them, with the happiest of all feelings that an infatuated being could call into action.
               I went to their house on the night appointed to see how things had been arranged; when I got there I was introduced to a young man, a friend of the gentleman who was to become the instrument of my future destiny. Everything being understood before I got there, we did not remain long, until the young man and I went over to see the young lady who had given me so much uneasiness and trouble; the introduction was given, I found her everything that I had hoped for; she was beautiful in the extreme, agreeable, talkative, and kind; she also sung splendidly and performed on the piano very well. All these accomplishments only served still more to bind me a willing captive at her bidding. The event passed off in every way desirable, and no one could have been better pleased than I was.
               Having had the extreme pleasure of being invited to call on the young lady I availed myself of the earliest and oftenest opportunities to do so. She treated me with all the kindness and attention that human heart could ask; I went with her to the theatres, to parties, and any place we could find in the city suitable for young people to go to and spend money.
               Without going into detail in this case, allow me to say that after keeping her company for some time I "popped the question" to her, and she popped me with a great big "YES!" Now I had gratified a great curiosity as well as a strong passion, and as is generally the case, I felt like things had been done up somewhat in a hurry; I had never made any inquiries about her family, her fortune or her age; she acted like a lady who had been brought up in a good, respectable manner, she was surrounded by everything that indicated independence, and her vanity was sufficient for me, let her age be what it might, therefore I considered that I was safe.
               Not long after our engagement I requested her to say what time the wedding should take place; but she turned it off in a manner, which, while it was novel, was no less pleasant, so that I could not reasonably make any complaint. Time passed on, two days had been elapsed and no day had yet been set; I was becoming anxious to have things come to a close, for I had been disappointed so often, I was getting rather "jubious."
               I once more named it to her, and seeing that I was becoming a little tired of the delay, she named the "happy day." Though it is customary in large cities (and small ones too, sometimes) for marriages to take place in church, she desired that we should get married in her father's parlor; it was a matter of but little moment to me, and I consented that we should get married at any place she wished.
               Wednesday morning, at eight o'clock, was to be the time for ticing the knot; after which we were to take a "bridal tour" to the New England States. Her family, the minister, and some two or three of my friends were all the witnesses that we expected to be present.
               I, in company with my friends, went at the appointed hour; all things were in readiness, we were requested to stand in the middle of the floor, the minister put on his glasses, looked very solemn as he was about to commence saying over the ceremony; my heart was beating, my mouth was dry, and although I could not see myself I knew by the way I felt that I was deathly pale. The young lady was in nearly the same fix as myself, for as she leaned heavily upon my arm, I could feel her trembling as if greatly agitated. At this exciting moment the door bell was heard to ring as if some one was coming on urgent business; the servant who was standing in the hall opened it, and as she did a rough-looking man was seen to rush in, and as he hastily entered the parlor the young lady by my side broke loose from me, and, rushing frantically across the room, screamed out, "oh! my husband, oh, my husband!"
               Being thunderstruck, paralysed, and twisted up to the dying point, I could not say anything for more than ten minutes, and all I could do was, to stand there, beholding my intended wife in the arms of a man who looked more like a "grave digger" than any other animal. At last an explanation had to be given, which was done by the young lady's father. She had been married to that man three or four years before, they lived very happily together, but the "gold fever" took him to California soon after, where he had been ever since and had not been heard from in two years; they thought him dead, and that was the reason she had agreed to marry me.
               You will bear in mind though, they had not told me anything of this, and perhaps never would have done so had the man not returned. My friends and myself walked out with feelings of humiliation, leaving the crowd in their glory.
               
               My friends! I am done, I have gone far enough; things get worse and still worse; I came near marrying another man's wife in the last "love scrape," I have never been in another; here I am ladies, a confirmed bachelor, though not a very old one; I have become disheartened, having made fourteen "master efforts" for a wife, and failed in every instance. Nothing now remains for me but one thing; that is, the ladies must take my case into consideration, deliberate on it, think what is the best, and then inform me of what has been done; it seems a pity that one who loves the ladies as I have done, and could yet do, should be left solitary and alone with no wife to comfort or console him.
               Believing that some fair lady will take pity on the "wife hunter," and relieve him of his misery, I must bid you adieu. Should any of the ladies hope to better my condition, and are desirous of doing so, by marrying me, let them just drop a line to me.
               To the young men, permit me to say, that this is a popping big world, with many popping things to contend with, but let me assure you as one who has had a little experience in this life; that you will never find any thing more difficult to do than "POPPING THE QUESTION."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               FUMBLE'S FINAL FANCY.
               LET us for a few moments lose sight of Fudge Fumble and take a ramble in a different direction. We will go back to chapter XII, if you please, and give every thing and every body a kind of overhauling; for during our absence they have been doing pretty much as they pleased. But before doing so we will take a general survey of Fumble's course through life, and more especially that part which relates to the "fair sex."
               It must not by any means be supposed that because he has been in a great number of "love scrapes," he has a bad heart, or that he is one who never "truly loved." The way to account for the great number of such troubles, which he has been into is, by admitting at once that he has a disposition very susceptible of such tender influences. When he found he had been unfortunate in one case instead of always weeping and creeping about it like many at the present day, he endeavored to forget the past and hope for a brighter and better future, and in doing this he would become acquainted with another lady, and in paying her attention he tried to forget the one he once had loved.
               Every thing being taken into consideration, it was not the worst plan with one who so dearly loved the female sex as did Fumble.
               As he has expressed it, "that he loved this one, that, or the other at such and such a time," it was no doubt true, but if you will examine closely, you will find he never loved or pretended to love two at the same time. That was one of those redeeming qualities which he could boast of, but yet we find he never has once attended to it. From about the age of fourteen, upward, the fair ones seemed to be the larger part of his thoughts, and no man ever, certainly, anticipated more happiness in the married state, or intended to make a better husband than he did, and yet, see what an amount of trouble he has experienced in trying not only to make himself, but another person—a woman happy also.
               Although he has loved many ladies in the course of his life, still there was one affair in the matrimonial way that he never could refer to without its filling his heart with the deepest emotion, and this you have heard him describe in Chapter XII. He was engaged to Miss Eliza Jacks, he loved her, as he loved his own soul, she loved him as woman should always love, and they expected to be married as soon as Fumble had his business matters arranged in a suitable way—in a way that he could feel justified in marrying.
               He had to go away to be absent from her who was the idol of his heart, the bright star in his imagination, the resting hope of his future happiness, and did not expect to return for some months; this was made known to her, and also the necessity for it to be so, as well as a faithful promise to return and redeem his plighted love.
               He left in sorrow, because they must needs be so long separated, but yet the hope of future joys reconciled them both. As he told you, they corresponded, but soon that was put a stop to by those who little cared for her happiness; the letters were intercepted, one became of a doubting mind, and then the other was in a like condition. Fumble having been unfortunate in so many instances, thought it only one more layer on the pyramid of troubles, and though it sank deep into his heart he concluded to bear it, and after writing again and again without bearing any thing from her that he so dearly loved, he remained "heart-clear," he did not intend to attempt loving another until he had some word from Eliza, so he wrote to one of his friends to know what had become of her.
               The answer that he received was that she "was married!' Then, and not until then, did he seek solace from another source. He retired to his room the night after receiving the news, with a heavy heart, but not once did he utter a sentence against her, said to himself, "well, perhaps I am to blame, for though my affairs are not exactly as I wished them, I had better have married her poor, and run the risk of making a living, than thus let her go and make myself miserable—perhaps for life; for though I may see another that I may love well enough to marry, still nothing can ever make me love womankind as I have loved Eliza; but, dear one, though you may have proved false, I love you still, farewell forever, and may Heaven bless you."
               Some two or three months after this he received a letter of which the following is a copy:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "My dear Fumble:—
                           
                           I wrote you some time ago that Miss Eliza had got married though she had been engaged to you; well, they say, murder will out, and so it seems in this case. On the very day that she was married what do you think happened? Why, Miss Eliza went to the post office to get a letter, or put one in, or something of that kind, any how, she found no one in the office but a little boy, who said to her, "if you wont tell anybody I will give you something;" she agreed, when the little fellow handed her five letters, which had been hid away in a box, and on opening them she found they were from you! Miss Susy Doyler was with her at the time, and she says that Eliza almost fainted when she read them. The consequence was that she hated the man she had just married, and began to raise a great hub-bub with him and her relations too, and she would not live with him, but they are kind of staying together yet, I believe, though a poor sort of a way to live. I am sorry for you Fudge, I am, old fellow, but I thought you might be glad to find out how things were carried on; don't take it to heart though, for it can't be helped now.
                           
                              Your friend as ever,
                              L——."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This was evidence strong enough but still she was then married, and of course that put an end to the affair then.
               Time passed away, as it ever will, till time is no more, and as you have seen, Fumble rambled from one part of the country to another, of course getting into trouble when a favorable opportunity offered; a thousand times did he think of his once dear Eliza, even when his heart was made to throb from other influences, and he gladly would have known how she was getting on in the world, but the peculiarly delicate situation in which matters were placed forbid too minute an inquiry on that point.
               Thus it is with almost every man and every woman the world over, each and every one will tell you when they tell you an honest truth that in spite of all that art can do, the powers of nature will predominate. Thus it is seen that there are two and two, or one of each kind particularly suited to each other in the married state, and if these two do not prove so fortunate as to go the world through together, then they are certainly doomed to live an unhappy life. Though by artful villainy, Fumble had been robbed of his treasure, the one who obtained it found that it brought him no happiness.
               One day Fumble was sitting in a fashionable "reading room" in New York, and of course feeling interested in the land of his boyhood. He began to look over the file of Southern papers; he found many things which interested him, but one in the form of an advertisement riveted his attention long and sadly, or gladly whichever you may chance to call it when you find out a little more about it.
               This advertisement of which we now speak set forth that "Miss Eliza Jack's was principal of a certain female Academy in one of the Southern states!" This was something new and startling to Fudge, and he could not comprehend it! Was it possible that there were two Miss Eliza Jacks? no, certainly it could not be that there were two who spelled their names exactly the same? but how was it, her name was not Miss Eliza Jacks then, for she had been married for years? Then there must be two of the same name.
               This reasoning in his own mind did not fully satisfy him though, and he resolved to see into the matter at the earliest possible moment, for having got into so many troubles with the ladies, and not got a wife after all, he thought if he could "find one of the name it would be all the same."
               Having come within about two minutes of marrying another man's wife without in the least suspecting it, he had resolved never again to try his hand at wife-hunting, but seeing the name of Miss Eliza Jack's made him forget rash promises, and he intended to find out if possible who she was and whether she was in any way related to the Miss Eliza that had always been so dearly allied to his heart.
               He thought again of his old friend who had first informed him of the letters being intercepted, and not knowing any one else he was willing to trust with a matter of so much interest to him, he sat down and wrote him a letter on the subject, and here is the answer he received:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MY DEAR FUDGE—What has become of you this long time? I have not heard of you for so long I thought you were dead, but I am glad all over to hear you are "still alive and kicking." I see it is hard for you to forget Miss Eliza, and you want to know how she gets on in the state of matrimony? my dear fellow, I can't tell you much about that, but what little I know may interest you, so you shall have it. You know that I told you about your letters being found the same day she was married? well, things went on from "bad to worse" all the time after that and they were both in the "pouts" continually. They lived together in this wretched way for a few months and then "dissolved partnership!" he remains here yet, but she left the neighborhood three or four years ago and went off I don't know where, and I don't think anybody in this part of the country can tell more than this.
                           
                              Your friend, L."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Here again was something not in the least calculated to cool his curiosity and what to do he did not know; he did not know but she might be hunting the world over trying to find him, and though she had married another man and left him because she thought he had been instrumental in hiding these letters which Fumble had written her and by that means won her hand, still there was that feeling of love or curiosity, if you might prefer calling it which prompted him to find out if possible whether she yet lived, and if so what might be her situation.
               The thought or hope of once more hearing from her that he had loved through all the trials and turmoils of life inspired him with new energy, and during his sleeping and waking hours, her sweet face and graceful form was before him, smiling like the sunny days of spring.
               And yet what right had he even to hope of hearing from her, or once more reading a letter from her own hand? Seeing the name of Miss Eliza Jacks in the advertisement above referred to, and also learning that Mis Eliza had separated from her husband, and gone to "parts unknown," constituted the entire grounds upon which he was building his hopeful castles, and imaginary blissful realities.
               He was now fully persuaded that she had been induced to marry because she had been made believe that Fumble would never return—that she would never see him again. Hearing that she almost swooned away on reading the long lost letters handed her in the post-office by the little boy, with many other things went fully to establish the fact that of all persons on earth she had loved Fumble most dearly; and to complete every thing to know she had refused ever to recognise the man she had married as her husband, on account of the villainy resorted to by him to obtain her hand, aroused all the dormant feelings of his nature, if any feelings which he possessed were dormant, but that we think doubtful for Fudge was always on the move at something.
               His mind became almost completely bewildered, in contemplating the subject, and as "love knows no bounds," or "necessity no law," he wrote an anonymous letter to the postmaster living in the town where the Female Academy was located, as spoken of in the advertisement, asking him if such a person lived in that town, and if so whether she was still single; how long she had been living there and what she followed, just as though he never had seen the advertisement, or had the least knowledge about the circumstances.
               To make the matter of still more interest and to avoid suspicion he signed his name as "Wm. Jacks," hoping the postmaster would be more likely to notice it.
               In due time he received an answer, and opening the letter whose name should be signed to it but Miss Eliza Jacks herself? The postmaster on receiving the letter had given it to her, and being taken very much by surprise, she answered it at the earliest moment, wishing an explanation, giving at the same time a full history of herself from the age of fourteen up to that time. It proved to be the same dear object of his fancy of younger years, and the solid reality of his then hopeful life and anticipated joys.
               Thinking he could surprise her also rather pleasantly, he wrote a long letter some eight pages, and sent it to her, giving his real name, and how happy he would be to hear from her again, and asking her if she had a divorce from the man to whom she had been married? After waiting anxiously for some three weeks he received the following letter from the dear Eliza's hand; "now comes the tug of war," what is to become of Fumble! he has labored faithfully, fearfully and feelingly for years, hoping to be bound in the silken cords of Hymen, it is now drawing fast to the last hour of the last day, time flies rapidly and we must not wait else we shall be lost in the vortex of matrimonial misunderstandings.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           EVER REMEMBERED FUDGE:—Your kind letter came safely to hand yesterday, and be assured it met with a warm reception. But imagine my feelings on opening the letter thinking I would hear of some one never before known to me, or see some strange and mysterious signature, and saw the name of Fudge Fumble! a name so familiar both to hear and to see on paper; a name that I used to hear, and once did love so dearly, but had lost all hope of ever again knowing its whereabouts.
                           It is true I have not dared to enquire as to what had become of you, for my feelings forbid me ever calling into question the name that was once my heart's dearest idol. It was with sentiments of joy and sorrow that I perused its dear, dear contents. It brought the scenes of by-gone days to my mind.
                           But oh! do not accuse me of inconstancy; I know my conduct would condemn me and say I have proved untrue; still do not call me thus, it would break my already saddened heart. Although I gave my hand to another man my heart he never had, for I loved, and deeply loved; but it was not the man I married. When I had been told that you would never return to marry me, I became careless and did not much care what disposition I made of myself, and as I was rather dependent on my relatives, and they urged me so much to marry the "man of means and money," I gave way to their persuasions, although it was like piercing a dagger to my heart, for, even when before the minister, I thought to myself, oh! if it was only you Fudge, I would be so happy! But it's past now; I had been animated from the influence of "love's charms," and I knew that my relatives were aware of it, all my friends knew it, and the object of my heart's deepest devotion was far, far away, I was miserable, wretched; I was not in fact sane, did not rightly know what I was doing; can you not dear Fudge, make some allowance for me? you know I have loved you, and if you knew all you would still love me.
                           Probably I am over-stepping the bounds of female decorum, by making so full a disclosure of my feelings, but if so I hope you will forgive me, for it would be absurd for me to say I did not love you, when my every desire has proved to you that I did; but if you sport with it, it will only be taking advantage of the feelings of one whose greatest fault has been to love you.
                           You wish to know if I have obtained a divorce; a suit to that purpose has been pending for some time, I am certain that I shall obtain a divorce very soon; I am looking every day for the lawyer to bring me word on the subject. I must drop my pen for a few moments, and interrupt the chain of my thoughts as some one has called to see me on business. Farewell, dear Fudge, and let us hope for the best, if the divorce is obtained, I will again be free, and then I will be yours forever.
                           
                              Yours, as ever,
                              ELIZA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It is a wonder that she has not added a postscript, but look out, for it is a hard matter for a woman to close a letter free from postscripts. Yes, here we have it at last:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "P. S. Dear, dear Fudge, it was the lawyer that called, with the much wished for news; I am free, I have obtained the divorce. Now I can offer myself to you free from encumbrance—I never had any children by the man who was once my husband; and still more, I have something for our comfort; the lawyer tells me that the suit for the lands and other property, which once belonged to my father, and which he was cheated out of, has just been settled in my favor. You know the immense value of them, but it does not change me, though rich in the goods of this world, I am rich in love for you. So I can now accept your proposition to wed you. Come on at your earliest convenience, return to the 'Sunny South' and to the arms of your affianced bride.
                           
                              Forever yours,
                              ELIZA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This postscript no one need complain of; and now dear reader, Fumble's remaining history is soon told; he was overjoyed beyond the possibility of doubt; nothing human could describe his happiness, so we will not attempt it. He was soon wending his way back to the scenes of his boyhood, to behold again the beauties of all that was so dear to his heart.
               Before another month had passed away, Fumble was a married man in reality, and there does not live on the face of the earth, a happier couple than him and his dear Eliza.
               Our rambles are ended, Fumble is married and settled, and now, though we have been together so long, and witnessed so many of the realities of life, we must part. Thanking you for your company, and wishing you a long life of uninterrupted happiness, we bid you a kind adieu.
            
            FINIS.
         
      
      
         
            NEW BOOKS NOW READY
            PUBLISHED BY FREDERIC A. BRADY,
            24, Ann Street, New York.
            
               BY G. W. M REYNOLDS.
               Empress Eugenie's Boudoir, paper 50
               The Young Duchess paper 50
               Imogen Hartland paper 50
               Ethel Trevor paper 50
               Canonbury House paper 50
               Ada Arundel paper 50
               Olivia; or, The Maid of Honor paper 50
               Leila, the Star of Mingreha paper 50
               Karaman, the Bandit Chief paper 50
               Omar Pasha paper 50
               Catharine Volmar paper 50
               The White Lady paper 50
               Wagner, the Wehr-Wolf paper 50
               Faust; or, The Secret Tribunal paper 50
            
            
               BY PIERCE EGAN.
               The Snake in the Grass paper 50
               Lady Blanche paper 50
               The Flower of the Flock paper 50
               Ada Leigh: or, The Love Test paper 50
               Love Me, Leave Me Not paper 50
               Lionel Jocelyn paper 50
            
            
               BY MALCOLM J. ERRYM.
               The Rift and the Spray, Illus. paper 25
               The Life Raft paper 25
               True Blue paper 25
               Ben Ratcliffe paper 25
               The Incendiaries paper 25
               The Life Light paper 25
               The Young Shipwright paper 25
            
            
               BY NED BUNTLINE.
               ILLUSTRATIONS BY DARLEY.
               Saul Sabberday paper 25
               The Man-of War-Man's Grudge paper 25
               Our Mess paper 25
               Stella De Lorme paper 25
               Elfrida paper 25
               Thayendanegea, the Scourge paper 25
               The White Wizard paper 25
               Sea Waif paper 25
               Luona Prescott paper 25
            
            
               Books by Popular Authors.
               The Young Captain. By Dumas paper 50
               The Royal Favorite paper 50
               The Rival Beauties paper 50
               Richard of York paper 50
               Romance of War paper 50
               Herbert, The Pride of the Mess paper 50
               The Adventuress paper 50
               Pierre the Partisan paper 25
               The Rival Adventures paper 25
               Jane Horton. By Jack Brace paper 25
               The Flying Cloud paper 25
               Forecastle Yarns paper 25
               Jolly Jack paper 25
               Violet Davenant paper 25
               Fast Life paper 25
               Ellen Maynard paper 25
               The Buckeye Ranger paper 25
               Pathaway paper 25
               The Maid of the Ranche paper 25
               The Patriot Cruiser paper 25
               The Maniae's Secret paper 25
               Roderick the Rover paper 25
               Jack Harold By Greenhorn paper 50
               The Criminal By Greenhorn paper 25
               The Outlaw By Greenhorn paper 25
               The Road to Ruin By Greenhorn paper 25
               Kate Castleton By Greenhorn paper 25
               Harry Glindon By Greenhorn paper 25
               Adelene By Greenhorn paper 25
               Julia Maxwell By Greenhorn paper 25
               Mysteries & Miseries of Philadelphia By Greenhorn paper 25
               The Virgin Wife By Greenhorn paper 25
               Grace Willard, By Greenhorn paper 25
               Alice Wad By Greenhorn paper 25
               Career of the Champions, Heenan and Sayers paper 25
            
            
               NEW SONG BOOKS, ETC. ILLUSTRATED.
               Christy & Fox's Complete Melodies and Jokes. Cloth, gilt paper 75
               Charley Fox's Ethiopian Song Book paper 13
               Geo. Christy's Ethiopian Joke Book, No. 2 paper 13
               Charley Fox's Bijou Song Book paper 13
               Geo. Christy's Ethiopian Joke Book, No. 3 paper 13
               Christy's Clown Joke Book paper 13
               Charley Fox's Sable Songster paper 13
               American Joker paper 13
               Fred. Shaw's Dune American Comic Songster paper 10
               Concert Room Comic Songster paper 13
               Vaughn's and Fox's Banjo Melodist paper 13
               Arlington's Banjo Songster. paper 13
               Black Jokes for Blue Devils paper 25
            
            
               Books for Every-Day Reference.
               How to Cook & How to Carve paper 25
               Pastry Cook's and Confectioner's Assistant paper 13
               Home Truths for Young Wives paper 13
               Letter Writing Made Easy paper 13
               Fenning's Every Mother's Book paper 25
               Grand Expose of the Science of Gambling paper 50
               Grand Expose of Sons of Malta paper 13
            
            
               Brady's Ethiopian Drama.
               13 cents each, or 10 for $1.00.
            
            For names of Plays, Farces, &c., send for Catalogue.
         
      
   
