
    ----CITATION----
        Arthur, T. S. (1809-1885). Trial and Triumph, or, Firmness in the Household .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5653 wright2-0134
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               
               T. S. ARTHUR'S GREAT HOUSEHOLD WORK
               Price 25 Cents.
               TRIAL AND TRIUMPH;
               OR, FIRMNESS IN THE HOUSEHOLD.
               BY T. S. ARTHUR. AUTHOR OF "A YEAR AFTER MARRIAGE," "THE
                  IRON RULE," "LADY AT HOME," "LOVE IN A COTTAGE," "LOVE IN HIGH LIFE," "TWO
                  BRIDGES," "DIVORCED WIFE," "BANKER'S WIFE," "PRIDE AND PRUDENCE," "CECILIA
                  HOWARD," "BROKEN PROMISES," "ORPHAN CHILDREN," "INSUBORDINATION," "LUCY SANDFORD,"
                  "AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED," "THE TWO MERCHANTS," ETC., ETC
                  
                
                     "This work possesses much interest, and, like all other works from the pen
                        of T. S. Arthur, is of a high moral, and useful tone. To read any of
                        Arthur's works must improve the character and the conduct, at the same time
                        that they are not less interesting to the uncorrupted mind than the
                        productions of those authors who pay no regard to the moral they convey. Mr.
                        Arthur's works are all good. They inculcate morality, and expose every
                        species of crime; they purify the feelings by illustrating the beauties of
                        virtue, and iniquities of vice. This is one of the very best he has written,
                        and a copy of it should be in every family and household in the land, for no
                        one either old or young, can read it without profiting by it. Like all the
                        writings of this author, there is a strong moral tone in this work, which
                        cannot fail to produce a good impression on the mind of the reader. It will
                        be read with interest by all the admirers of domestic novels, and will be
                        seized on with avidity by the thousands of readers who prefer Mr. Arthur's
                        useful and instructive sketches, to the flimsy literature that overstocks
                        the market. This book is published uniformly with Mr. Peterson's editions of
                        T. S. Arthur's publications. To Mr. Arthur the public are indebted for a
                        species of composition that while it affords delight, conveys at the same
                        time some moral and practical lessons in social life."
                  
            
            
               Philadelphia:
                  T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, 306 CHESTNUT STREET.
                  Copies of this work will be sent to any one, by Mail, free of postage, on
                  Receipt of the price.
            
            
         
         
         
            
            T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS.
            Booksellers, News Agents, Sutlers, and all others, will be supplied at
               very low rates.
            
               FREDRIKA BREMER'S WORKS.
               Father and Daughter, 1 00 
               The Neighbors, 1 00
               The Four Sisters, 1 00
               The Home, 1 00
               The above are each in two volumes, paper cover. Each one is also published in
                  one volume, cloth, price $1.50.
               Life in the Old World; or Two Years in Switzerland and Italy, by Miss Bremer;
                  in 2 vols., cloth, price $3.00.
            
            
               MRS. ANN S. STEPHENS' WORKS.
               Mary Derwent 1 00
               The Old Homestead, 1 00
               Fashion and Famine, 1 00
               The Heiress, 1 00
               The above are each in two volumes, paper cover. Each one is also published in
                  one volume, cloth, price $1.50.
            
            
               G. P. R. JAMES'S BOOKS.
               Lord Montagu's Page, 1 00
               The Cavalier, 1 00
               The above are each in two volumes, paper cover. Each book is also published in
                  one volume, cloth, price $1.50.
               The Man in Black, 50 
               Arrah Neil, 50
               Mary of Burgundy, 50
               Eva St. Clair, 25
            
            
               DOESTICKS' WORK.
               Doesticks' Letters, 1 00
               The Elephant Club, 1 00
               Plu-to Bus-tah, 1 00
               Witches of New York, 1 00
               The above are each in two volumes, paper cover. Each one is also published in
                  one volume, cloth, price $1.50.
               Nothing to Say. A Humorous Satire of the Times, 50
            
            
               LIEBIG'S WORKS ON CHEMISTRY.
               Agricultural Chemistry, 25
               Liebig's celebrated Letters on Potato Disease, 25
               Animal Chemistry, 25 
               Liebig's Complete Works on Chemistry. Containing everything written by
                  Professor Liebig, is also issued in one large volume, bound in
                  cloth. Price $2.00.
            
            
               MISS PARDOE'S WORKS.
               The Jealous Wife, 50
               The Wife's Trials, 50
               Confessions of a Pretty Woman, 50
               Rival Beauties, 50
               Romances of the Harem 50
               The Adopted Heir. Two vols. paper, $1.00, or cloth $1.50.
            
            
               BOOKS OF ADVENTURE.
               Valentine Vox, the Ventriloquist, 50
               Life and Adventures of Don Quixotte, 2 vols. 1 00
               Sylvester Sound, the Somnambulist, 50
               Adventures in Africa. Major Harris. 2 vols., 1 00
               Life and Adventures of Paul Periwinkle, 50
               Life and Adventures of Ned Lorn, 2 vols., 1 00
               Adventures of Wilfred Montressor, 2 vols., 1 00
               Adventures of a Roue, 25
               Wild Oats Sown Abroad 50
            
            
               GOOD BOOKS FOR EVERYBODY.
               The Quaker Soldier, 1 00
               Currer Lyle, 1 00
               Afternoon of Unmarried Life, 1 00
               Wild Southern Scenes, 1 00
               High Life in New York, 1 00
               Life and Beauties of Fanny Farm, 1 00
               Pluey Woods Tavern, 1 00
               Lola Montes Life and Lectures, 1 00
               Secession, Coercion, and Civil War, 1 00
               Sam Slick, the Clockmaker, 1 00
               Memoirs of Vidocq, 1 00
               
                  Yankee Stories, 1 00
               Humors Falconbridge, 1 00
               The above are each in two volume, paper cover. Each  published in one
                  volume, cloth, price $1.50 each
            
            
               HUMOROUS AMERICAN WORKS.
               BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED.
               Major Jones' Courtships, 50
               Drama in Pokerville, 50
               Major Jones' Travels, 50
               The Quorndon Hounds, 50
               
                  Simon Suggs' Adventures and Travels, 50
               My Shooting Box, 50
               Major Jones' Chronicles of Pineville, 50
               Warwick Woodlands, 50
               Polly Peablossom's Wedding, 50
               Adventures of Captain Farrago, 50
               The Deer Stalkers, 50
               Widow Rugby's Husband, 50
               Major O'Regan's Adventures, 50
               Big Bear of Arkansas, 50
               Sol. Smith's Theatrical Apprenticeship, 50
               Western Scenes, or Life on the Prairie, 50
               Sol. Smith's Theatrical Journey-Work, 50
               Streaks Squatter Life, 50
               The Quarter Race in Kentucky, 50
               Pickings from Picayune, 50
               Life of Col. Vanderbomb, 50
               Stray Subjects, arrested and Bound Over, 50 
               Percival Mayberry's Adventures and Travels, 50
               Louisiana Swamp Doctor, 50
               Yankee Yarns and Yankee Letters, 50
               Charcoal Sketches, 50
               The Arkansas Doctor, 50
               Misfortunes of Peter Faber, 50
               Battlehead's Travels, 50
               
                   50
               American Joe Miller, 25
               
                   among the  50
               Adventures of Fudge Fumble, 50
               
                   Sketch , 50
            
            
               MRS. GREY'S WORKS.
               Cousin Harry, 1 00
               The Little Beauty 1 00
               The above are each in two volumes, paper cover.
               Each book is also in one volume, cloth, price $1.50 each.
               The Flirt, 50
               Baronet's Daughter's, 25
               Gipsey's Daughter, 25
               Young Prima Donna, 25
               Lena Cameron, 25
               Old Dower House, 25
               Bells of the Family, 25
               Hyacinthe, 25
               Sybil Lennard, 25
               Alice Seymour, 25
               Duke and Cousin, 25
               Mary Seaham, 50
               The Little Wife, 25
               Passion and Principle, 50
               Manœuvering Mother, 25
            
            
               C. J. PETERSON'S WORKS.
               Old Stone Mansion, 1 00
               Kate Aylesford, 1 00
               The above are each in two vols. paper cover. Each one is also published in one
                  volume, cloth, price $1.50
               Cruising in the Last War, 50
               Grace Dudley; or Arnold at Saratoga, 25
               Valley Farm, 25
            
            
               MAITLAND'S WORKS.
               The Watchman, 1 00
               Diary of an old Doctor, 1 00
               The Wanderer, 1 00
               Sartaroe, 1 00
               The Lawyer's Story 1 00
               The Three Cousins, 1 00
               Above are each in two vols. paper cover. Each one is also published in one vol.
                  cloth, price of $1.50 each.
            
            
               LANGUAGES WITHOUT MASTER.
               French without Master, 25
               German without a Master, 25
               Spanish without a Master, 25
               Italian without a Master, 25
               Latin without a Master, 25
               The above five works on the French, German, Spanish, Latin and Italian
                  Languages, without a Master, whereby any one or all of these Languages can be
                  learned  one without a teacher with  by A. H.
                     Monteith, Esq. is also published in  complete in
                  one large volume, bound, price, $1.50.
            
            
               BOOKS OF FUN AND HUMOR.
               High Life in New York, by Jonathan Slick, cloth, 1 50
               Piney Woods Tavern, or, Sam Slick in Texas, cloth, 1 50
               
               Judge Halliburton's Yankee Stories, illustrated. cloth, 1 50
               Major Jones's Courtship and Travels, cloth, 1 50
               
               The Swamp Doctor's Adventures in the South-West. 14 illustrations, cloth, 1
                  50
               Simon Suggs' Adventure and Travels, cloth, 1 50
               
               Major Jones's Scenes in Georgia, cloth, 1
                     50
               
               Major Thorpe's Scenes in Arkansaw, 16 illustrations, cloth, 1 50
               Sam Slick, the Clockmaker, cloth, 1 50
               
               The Big Bear's Adventures and Travels. 18 illus., cloth, 1 50
               The Humors of Falconbridge, cloth, 1 50
               
               Frank Forrester's Sporting Scenes and Characters, 2 vols.,cloth, 3 00
               Harry Coverdale's Courtship, cloth, 1 50
               American Joe Miller, 25
            
            
               DOW'S PATENT SERMONS.
               Dow's Patent Sermons, 1st Series, 75c. cloth, 1 00
               Dow's Patent Sermons, 2d Series, 75c. cloth, 1 00
               Dow's Patent Sermons, 3d Series, 75c. cloth, 1 00
               Dow's Patent Sermons, 4th Series, 75c. cloth, 1 00
            
            
               HENRY W. HERBERT'S BOOKS.
               My Shooting Box, 50
               Warwick Woodlands, 50
               Deer Stalker, 50
               Quorndon Hounds, 50
               The Roman Traitor, 1 vol., el., $1.50, or 2 vols., pap., 1
                     00
               
            
            
               ELLEN PICKERING'S WORKS.
               Orphan Niece, 50
               Fright, 38
               The Grumbler, 50
               Quiet Husband, 38
               Ellen Wareham, 38
               Nan Darrill, 38
               Who Shall be Heir? 38
               Prince and Pedlar 38
               Secret Foe, 38
               Merchant's Daughter, 38
               Expectant, 38
               The Squire, 38
            
            
               DR. HOLLICK'S WORKS.
               Dr. Hollick's great work on Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Figure, with
                  plates, 1.25
               Dr. Hollick's Family Physician, 25
            
            
               USEFUL BOOKS FOR EVERYBODY.
               Miss Leslie's Behavior Book, one vol., cloth, 1 50
               Creation of the Earth, 1 50
               The Laws and Practice of the Game of Euchre, 75
               Lardner's One Thousand Ten Things 
               
               The American Pocket Library of UsefuL 
               
               Arthur's Receipts for Preserving Fruits. 
               
               Kitchen Gardener, 25
               Knowlson's 
               
               Complete Florist, 25 
               Knowlson's 
               
            
            Any of the above works will be sent by Mail, free of Postage, to any part of the
               United States, on mailing price of ones wanted, in a letter, to T. B. Peterson &
               Brothers, Philada.
         
         
         
            
            
               TRIAL AND TRIUMPH;
               OR, FIRMNESS IN THE HOUSEHOLD.
            
            BY T. S. ARTHUR. AUTHOR OF "A YEAR AFTER MARRIAGE," "THE
               IRON RULE," "LADY AT HOME," "LOVE IN A COTTAGE," "LOVE IN HIGH LIFE," "TWO BRIDGES,"
               "DIVORCED WIFE," "BANKER'S WIFE," "PRIDE AND PRUDENCE," "CECILIA HOWARD," "BROKEN
               PROMISES," "ORPHAN CHILDREN," "INSUBORDINATION," "LUCY SANDFORD," "AGNES; OR, THE
               POSSESSED," "THE TWO MERCHANTS," ETC., ETC
            
               
                  "This work possesses much interest, and, like all other works from the pen of
                     T. S. Arthur, is of a high moral, and useful tone. To read any of Arthur's
                     works must improve the character and the conduct, at the same time that they
                     are not less interesting to the uncorrupted mind than the productions of those
                     authors who pay no regard to the moral they convey. Mr. Arthur's works are all
                     good. They inculcate morality, and expose every species of crime; they purify
                     the feelings by illustrating the beauties of virtue, and iniquities of vice.
                     This is one of the very best he has written, and a copy of it should be in
                     every family and household in the land, for no one either old or young, can
                     read it without profiting by it. Like all the writings of this author, there is
                     a strong moral tone in this work, which cannot fail to produce a good
                     impression on the mind of the reader. It will be read with interest by all the
                     admirers of domestic novels, and will be seized on with avidity by the
                     thousands of readers who prefer Mr. Arthur's useful and instructive sketches,
                     to the flimsy literature that overstocks the market. This book is published
                     uniformly with Mr. Peterson's editions of T. S. Arthur's publications. To Mr.
                     Arthur the public are indebted for a species of composition that while it
                     affords delight, conveys at the same time some moral and practical lessons in
                     social life."
               
            
            
               Philadelphia:
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS,
                  
                     306 CHESTNUT STREET.
                  
               
            
            
            
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by T. B. PETERSON,
                  In the Office of the Clerk of the District Court of the United States, in and for the
                  Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
          
      
      
         
            Trial and triumph, or, Firmness in the household
            
               TRIAL AND TRIUMPH.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  "MARY LYNN! I will not believe you in earnest!" said Philip Emerson,
                     addressing, in a passionate tone, a young lady who sat near him on the sofa,
                     and whose blushing face, as it bent to the floor, was half veiled by the sunny
                     curls that fell over it. He caught the maiden's hand, and tried to raise it to
                     his lips; but she drew it quickly away, thus preventing the act of
                     endearment.
                  "Philip," was replied, in a low, tremulous voice, "I am in earnest."
                  "Impossible! Mary, this cannot be! Have you not given me every encouragement to
                     believe that a sentiment tenderer than mere friendship was in your heart. No!
                     By all sweet hours we have passed together, I will not believe this."
                  The face of Mary Lynn bent lower, and her fair ringlets veiled it still deeper.
                     As the young man strained his eyes to catch the expression of her half
                     concealed countenance, he saw a tear fall upon her hand.
                  "No, no! I will not believe it!" he added, more passionately; and again he
                     grasped her hand, and tried to raise it to his lips. But Mary resisted the
                     effort as firmly as before, saying, as she did so, with unexpected decision,
                     and with something of rebuke in her voice.
                  "Philip, I said a moment since that I was in earnest; and I again repeat the
                     words. I am in earnest. I cannot become your wife."
                  "Why, Mary? Why?"
                  "Do not ask for reasons, Philip. Do not distress me by vain importunities. Go!
                     And forget that you ever knew me."
                  "Ask me to forget myself, Mary. The task were quite as easy."
                  "Philip Emerson!" exclaimed the fair young creature, suddenly lifting her head,
                        and throwing back the veil of sunny
                     ringlets—"Be a man! I have said that I never could become your wife. Is not
                     this enough? Would you take that hand"—extending her right hand as she spoke,
                     and placing the other upon her breast—"while the heart, here, cannot go with
                     it?"
                  The young man arose and stepped back a pace or two, while an expression of
                     painful surprise passed over his countenance.
                  "Mary," said he, in a changed voice, "you have trifled with me!"
                  He looked at her, sternly, until her eyes sunk beneath his gaze and fell to the
                     floor.
                  "No, Philip," she murmured, "I have not trifled with you. Heaven is my witness
                     for that!"
                  "Then you love me!" As quick as thought he was by her side, and seeking to gain
                     possession of her hand. But she resisted him as firmly as in the beginning.
                  Again he arose and stood before her, with his eyes fixed upon her form. Thus he
                     stood for nearly the space of a minute, after which, without speaking, he
                     retired from the room. A few moments more, and his step was heard along the
                     passage. Then the closing of the street door told the eagerly listening girl
                     that he had left the house. Starting from her seat, on the instant, she glided
                     from the room, and went quickly up to her chamber. Over her face, that was now
                     pale, tears were gushing, and her slightly made form was quivering like an
                     aspen leaf. She had just passed through the severest trial of her life, and had
                     come out of it completely exhausted in mind and body. How great the trial was,
                     the reader will understand, when we say that she did, indeed, love Philip
                     Emerson; and had loved him for a long time, with all the truth and tenderness
                     of a spirit that knew no guile. Her rejection of his suit was no maiden
                     caprice—no girlish trifling with an ardent lover. She had acted from a
                     principle of right; and, in doing so, had committed violence upon her own
                     feelings.
                  Long before Mary had recovered her self-possession, her mother entered her
                     room. She came in with a slow step, and a countenance that was sad, even to
                     distress. She was dressed in mourning garments. On the part of Mary, there was
                     an immediate effort to hide, as far as possible, her own feelings.
                  As Mrs. Lynn took a chair by the side of her daughter, she sighed heavily, and
                     her face became still more overcast.
                  "More bad news," said she, in a troubled voice.
                  Mary looked at her mother inquiringly, but did not speak.
                  "I saw Mr. Williams again this morning, and he informs me that United States
                     Bank Stock has gone down to fifty."
                  "So low as that," sighed Mary.
                  "Yes. It has fallen ten dollars in a single day."
                  "Does Mr. Williams think it will go up again?"
                  "Yes. He says I must not be alarmed—that a reaction will soon take place. He is
                     certain that the stock has reached its lowest point. But I am afraid we shall
                     lose every thing."
                  "Why not sell the stock now, mother, and secure what it will bring?"
                  "I urged this upon Mr. Williams; but he says that we mustn't think of such a
                     thing."
                  "Better save part than lose all."
                  "So I think; but Mr. Williams positively objects to such a sacrifice. I wanted
                     him to sell at the first depression in prices; but he would not listen to the
                     proposition then, nor will he hear to it now. He says that he has the fullest
                     confidence in the soundness of the Bank. Oh, dear! I am distressed to death.
                     What will become of us?"
                  "Mother, had we not better act from our own judgment in this matter?" said
                     Mary. "Better lose half than all."
                  "Far better. I will go and see Mr. Williams and direct him to sell."
                  "Do. Let us save a remnant. There is yet enough for our wants, if we live
                     prudently."
                  "We will have to give up this house, and reduce our establishment in every
                     way," said Mrs. Lynn, in a troubled voice.
                  "That need not affect our happiness, mother," replied Mary. "Our income will
                     still be sufficient for every comfort."
                  "I think more of you than of myself," said Mrs. Lynn, in a meaning tone.
                  "Of me, mother! Why of me?" quickly answered Mary, looking earnestly and
                     inquiringly into her mother's face as she spoke.
                  "The change may seriously affect your prospects in life."
                  "How?" Mary fully understood her mother, and yet she asked a reason. This was
                     almost involuntary.
                  "Was not Philip Emerson here this morning?" asked Mrs. Lynn, with a
                     significance not to be misunderstood.
                  Mary's eyes fell to the floor while a deep crimson overspread her face.
                  "If he should become aware of this sad change in our circumstances—"
                  "Mother!" said Mary, quickly, interrupting any further remark, "I have just
                     declined Philip's offer of marriage."
                  "Girl! Are you mad!" exclaimed Mrs. Lynn, her whole manner suddenly changing.
                     "Declined his offer!"
                  "Yes, mother," replied Mary, with forced calmness. "Surely, you did not expect
                     any thing else, after what we have just heard."
                  "And was that your only reason?"
                  "Yes. It was my only reason. But, surely, that was enough! He has forfeited my
                        respect, and shaken my confidence
                     in his principles."
                  The answer of Mrs. Lynn to this was a mere expression of angry impatience.
                  "Your own heart must tell you that I am right," said Mary.
                  "It tells me that you are wrong!" answered Mrs. Lynn. "Reject an offer like
                     that on such grounds! Do you expect a man to be as perfect as an angel? What
                     have you to do with his business life? Enough that he loves you, and is ready
                     to make you his partner."
                  Mary saw, too clearly that to argue with her mother would be worse than
                     useless, and she, therefore, remained silent. Severe enough had been the trial
                     through which she had passed, without having this added. Already her heart was
                     palpitating with pain. To grasp it, thus rudely, was to increase the pain to
                     agony. Drooping her head, as when before her lover, until her curls veiled her
                     face, she sat, unanswering, in the presence of her excited parent.
                  "Mary Lynn!" said the mother, forcing back her excited feelings, and speaking
                     calmly, and with something of authority in her voice—"you must recall your
                     foolish words to Philip. A more suitable and advantageous alliance than this
                     may never offer again—will never offer again. He loves you
                     tenderly—can your heart ask more?"
                  But Mary did not reply even to this. She remained with her bent head and her
                     shaded face, motionless, almost, as if inanimate. Thinking that she was making
                     the impression desired, Mrs. Lynn continued—
                  "He is in good circumstances and well connected. Few young men can boast his
                     personal attractions. His affection for you cannot be doubted. What more do you
                     ask? Surely, my daughter lets some trifle, too near the axis of vision, throw a
                     dark veil over intrinsic excellencies that she ought to see in the clearest
                     light."
                  "Do you call dishonesty and cruel selfishness mere trifles?" said Mary, slowly
                     raising her face, and letting her eyes rest steadily on those of her mother.
                     "Do you think that I could give my hand to any man in a union so sacred as that
                     of marriage, when there was in his heart a fountain from which such evil things
                     flowed? No, mother! I would be untrue to myself were I to make such a
                     sacrifice."
                  "Dishonesty! Why will you stamp with such a name mere acts of business that are
                     of every day occurrence. Men must look to their own interests in trade; must
                     take care of their own, or they will find success a mocking delusion."
                  "There is a wide difference between a man's regarding his own interest, and
                     totally disregarding the interests of others," replied Mary. "The first is a
                     man's duty; but, to disregard and trample upon the interests of others, is
                     shameless dishonesty, and the man who can do this has in him a principle of
                     baseness. Rather than be the wife of such a man, mother, I would suffer any
                     physical evil to which a life of poverty might subject me. I feel an inward
                     sense of suffocation at the very thought. It is impossible for such a man truly
                     to love a woman; for, genuine affection, and a love of self so strong that it
                     deliberately seeks to wrong and oppress others, can never live in the same
                     bosom."
                  "You misjudge Philip," replied Mrs. Lynn. "You take things as they appear, and
                     place them upon your own construction."
                  "I do not think I misjudge him, mother," said Mary, "none knows, but myself,
                     how hard the struggle has been to give him up—to turn from him. It has been
                     like giving up almost my own life."
                  "Evidence enough that the act was wrong," remarked Mrs. Lynn, promptly.
                  "No, mother; I do not believe that. As to misjudging Philip, as you allege, I
                     am clear in my own mind that this is not so. The man that could, at this age,
                     deliberately cheat in business, and moreover withdraw from a helpless old woman
                     who had nursed him when he was a babe, and ministered to his wants in
                     childhood, the support a mother's bounty had willed, but not legally provided,
                     and let her spend her last days in an alms-house, must have a base principle in
                     his heart, too base for mine to consort with!"
                  Mary spoke deliberately and with that eloquence of tone and manner that marks a
                     feeling condemnation of what is wrong in principle. For a few moments her
                     mother was subdued by this manner, but she quickly resumed—
                  "I do not believe half what we have heard on this subject. Stories of this kind
                     lose nothing in even a short journey—this one has come over a hundred
                     miles."
                  "Mrs. Glover is not a woman likely to magnify any story. While in D——, and in
                     the circle where Mr. Emerson's family was well known, she heard of Philip's
                     unkind and, I will say, cruel treatment of his old nurse. Not being willing to
                     believe such a statement except on the most direct and reliable authority, she
                     took the pains to go to their alms-house and see the person to whom reference
                     had been made. She saw her as you heard her relate, was deeply touched by the
                     interview, and came away shocked at the cruel desertion to which the poor!
                     helpless old woman had been subjected. Philip's mother, she said, had
                     generously provided for the nurse, after sickness had rendered her unable to
                     take care of herself, and had frequently promised that she would leave her, at
                     her death, a life-annuity, sufficient to make her comfortable. This, it appears, she neglected to do; but
                     Mrs. Glover says that she conversed with a lady who was with Mrs. Emerson
                     during her last moments, and that she heard her solemnly charge Philip to
                     provide for the nurse, as she had been providing so long as she lived, and that
                     Philip gave the requisite promise. Moreover, he continued to do for her in
                     accordance with this promise, for several years, but finally, withdrew the
                     trifling sum required for her support."
                  "You are too ready to believe an evil report," said Mrs. Lynn.
                  "In that you do me injustice, mother. I was slow to believe this as well as
                     other reports, and gave Philip the benefit of all conceivable doubts. But when
                     I learned that Mrs. Glover called to see him, and made an appeal for his poor
                     old nurse, and that he received her coldly and almost insultingly, I gave him
                     up. A man who could be dishonest in business, and cold hearted and cruel as
                     this act showed him to be, never could so love an object out of himself as to
                     make that object happy."
                  "Weak, silly girl!" exclaimed Mrs. Lynn, impatiently. "Is it thus lightly that
                     you throw away the offer of an alliance that hundreds as good as you would
                     spring to accept? And this, too, at a moment when threatened with the loss of
                     property and social position?"
                  "Dear mother!" said Mary, with much feeling, "don't speak to me in this way.
                     Think of me as having made a painful sacrifice, and as being deeply afflicted
                     in consequence. Pity me—sympathize with me—seek to give me strength to bear my
                     great trial; but do not rebuke me thus. I have sought to do right."
                  Mary's voice was broken by sobs as she concluded this appeal; and she bowed her
                     head to hide the tears she could not restrain. Though little affected by all
                     this, Mrs. Lynn, who was a calculating woman of the world, deemed it the best
                     to say no more at the time, and so left her daughter, remarking as she
                     retired—
                  "I will talk with your further on this subject."
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  A FEW weeks have passed. Mary, in whose beautiful eyes the light has grown dim,
                     and from whose cheeks the bloom has faded, is sitting alone, with a sad, dreamy
                     countenance. The door opens and her mother enters.
                  "Mary; Mr. Emerson is in the parlor, and desires to see you."
                  "Tell him," was the firmly spoken reply, "that I wish to be excused. I cannot
                     see him."
                  "You must see him, Mary!" the mother answered.
                  "Why does he importune me in this way?" said Mary, drawing up her slender
                     person, while a flash of indignant feeling went over her countenance.
                  "He wishes, in justice to himself, to explain away circumstances that have
                     placed him in an unfavorable light in your eyes. An interview for this purpose
                     you cannot deny him."
                  "How does he know the reasons that influenced me in declining his offer?" asked
                     Mary, in a tone of surprise.
                  "I informed him."
                  "You! mother?"
                  "He asked of me a reason for your conduct, and I gave it."
                  "Let him explain to you, then!"
                  "He has done so, and to my entire satisfaction."
                  "What has he to say about his poor old nurse in the alms-house?"
                  "There was a mistake in the whole matter. He never meant to withhold a support
                     from her while she lived. She is no longer in the alms-house."
                  "Why did he withhold the support, then?" asked Mary.
                  "Haven't I just said that there had been a mistake in the matter?"
                  He didn't say this to Mrs. Glover when she called on him."
                  "Mrs. Glover! Don't speak of her! She's a woman who meddles in things that
                     don't belong to her. Philip wouldn't stoop to explanations when she called to
                     interrogate him."
                  "She asked for no explanations. She simply called upon him with a petition in
                     behalf of the old woman, and he met her with a repulsive coldness that was
                     almost insulting."
                  "That is her story."
                  "And I believe it, mother."
                  "Believe it if you will; but see Philip, and, in justice to both yourself and
                     him, hear his personal explanation."
                  "I do not wish to see him, mother," returned Mary. "It can do no good, and will
                     only add to the pain I already feel. If he is innocent of what has been
                     alleged, so much the better for him; let conscious innocence be his sustainer.
                     As for him and me, we can never bear to each other a different relation from
                     the present. To this resolution, my mind came weeks ago; and all subsequent
                     things have but confirmed the resolution."
                  "Girl! Girl! Will you sacrifice every thing to this perverse and stubborn
                     spirit?" exclaimed Mrs. Lynn, unable to control her angry disappointment. "Can
                     you forget the peril of our present position? The fortune left by your father a
                     breath may sweep away. It is already reduced two-thirds, and, to-morrow's sun
                     may rise and see us beggars! Philip is not, I am persuaded, aware that all our
                     property is in these stocks. Accept his offer, then, before this knowledge
                        reaches him, and save yourself and
                     family from ruin and disgrace."
                  Mary arose, while her mother was speaking; and there was a look of unfeigned
                     surprise in her flushing countenance.
                  "Would you have me deceive him, mother?" she asked, with a calm dignity, before
                     the expression of which Mrs. Lynn felt rebuked—"Surely you are not in
                     earnest!"
                  "Philip is waiting below," said the mother, after a pause, speaking less
                     arrogantly. "He asks to see you. Do not the relations that have existed between
                     you for so long a time give him a right to ask this?"
                  "I will see him, mother, on one condition," was Mary's answer to this.
                  "Name it."
                  "That you first inform him of our altered circumstances."
                  "Are you beside yourself, girl!" exclaimed Mrs. Lynn.
                  "No, mother, I am in my right mind. Not for a moment did it occur to me that
                     Philip was ignorant of the great reverse with which we are threatened; and I,
                     therefore, gave him credit for an attachment uninfluenced by sordid feelings.
                     Now, you not only raise a doubt in my mind, but place me in a new relation to
                     him."
                  "Oh, Mary! you do vex me beyond measure," said Mrs. Lynn. "Every thing will be
                     ruined by this perverseness of temper. What have you to do with all these
                     disturbing considerations? Why will you go out of your way to mar your best
                     prospects in life?"
                  Mary did not answer to this, and her mother continued her importunities for
                     some time longer. At length, seemingly to change her purpose suddenly, Mary
                     said—
                  "I will see him, but it must be alone."
                  "As you like," was replied; "but remember that your happiness for life hangs
                     upon the result of this interview."
                  "I will remember it," said Mary, in a low, solemn voice, as if speaking to
                     herself. Without a word more, she left her room and descended to the parlor,
                     where Emerson awaited an interview. The young man, who was walking the floor as
                     she entered, came quickly towards her, with his hand extended, saying,
                  "Mary! At last I see you."
                  He tried to smile as he grasped the hand she could not, in courtesy, refuse to
                     give, and fixed a look of the most earnest inquiry upon her face. Mary looked
                     at him for a moment only, and then her eyes were cast upon the floor. Seeing
                     that she made no answer to his salutation, Emerson led her to a seat, and
                     placed himself beside her.
                  "You look pale, Mary," said he. "Very pale and changed. Have you been ill?"
                  "No," was faintly murmured.
                  By this time she had succeeded in withdrawing the hand Emerson had sought to
                     retain. There was now an embarrassing pause, which the young man broke by
                     saying,
                  "It seems, Mary, that some enemies of mine have been busy, and with too good
                     success, in the work of poisoning your mind against me."
                  "Oh, no, Philip," quickly answered Mary. "No one has been busy in this
                     work."
                  "Then I have been wrongly informed," said he, in a tone of surprise. "Your
                     mother certainly gave me to understand this as the reason for your suddenly
                     manifested aversion. And I have asked an interview in order to hear the charges
                     from your own lips, and to answer them."
                  "I have no charges to make, Philip," replied Mary.
                  "Then why this change in your feelings?"
                  "Philip," said the young girl, "I have changed, because of a better knowledge
                     of your character has satisfied me that we could not be happy together. Will
                     not this reason suffice?"
                  "What point in my character? Upon what acts, or supposed acts of mine do you
                     base your decision?"
                  "Philip Emerson!" Mary arose from her place by his side, and stood before him.
                     "It is not just to me, this importunity for a reason in a matter of so trying
                     and delicate a nature. I have been sincere to you from the beginning; I am
                     sincere with you now. At our last painful interview, I told you that I was in
                     earnest; and I can but repeat the words on this occasion. Go, and forget me!
                     But you need not think of me unkindly, for I have no unkind thoughts towards
                     you. My present action is the result of a deliberate conviction that I should
                     not accept the flattering offer you made—not of angry or offended feeling—and
                     be assured that I cannot change my well-formed resolution. That I am a
                     sufferer, your own eyes have already informed you. I shall still be a sufferer;
                     yet will I not change. Spare me, then, further pain. Let me plead for this;
                     even by the pleasant memories of the past."
                  There was a tremor of emotion in the voice of Mary as she thus spoke, that
                     deeply affected her auditor; and, in spite of her words, he ventured yet to
                     plead his cause. But, ere he had uttered a sentence, tears gushed over her
                     face, and she turned from him, and left the apartment.
                  For Emerson to have remained longer, would have been as hopeless as indelicate;
                     and so he retired, ere Mrs. Lynn, who had been anxiously awaiting the
                     termination of the interview, had time to intercept him.
                  Scarcely had the noise made by the closing door ceased to reverberate through
                     the house, ere the bell was rung, and Mrs. Lynn, who was already on her way to
                     her daughter's apartment, paused on the stairs to listen. As the servant opened the street door,
                     she heard a man's voice; then a man's step sounded in the entry.
                  "Mr. Williams wishes to see you," said the servant, coming up to where she
                     still remained on the stairway.
                  The name caused the heart of Mrs. Lynn to give a sudden throb. The visit was
                     untimely, and boded either good or bad intelligence—bad she had too good reason
                     to fear. Hurriedly descending, she entered the parlor, and found Mr. Williams
                     standing in the floor with a troubled countenance.
                  "Dear madam," said he, in an agitated voice, "our worst fears are at last
                     realized! There has been a sudden collapse in the stock market. Shares fell
                     to-day as low as fifteen!"
                  "Oh, Mr. Williams!" exclaimed the distressed widow, clasping her hands
                     together, and growing suddenly pale. "Then am I indeed a beggar!"
                  "Thousands are involved in a like ruin. How little did I dream of this?"
                  "Oh, why did you not let me sell, months ago, when I was so anxious to save a
                     portion of my own and my children's property? Now all is hopeless ruin!"
                  And the distressed woman wrung her hands and wept.
                  "I advised you for the best," said the rebuked agent, in a depreciating voice.
                     "I never dreamed that this stock was worthless. So entire was my confidence in
                     its ultimate value, that I as steadily refused to part with a single share held
                     on my own account. I am, therefore, a loser with others, and to a large
                     amount."
                  "But I wanted to sell, Mr. Williams. I felt that all was insecure from the
                     first. At seventy cents, I would still have saved a handsome competence. At
                     fifty, I would still have had twenty-five thousand dollars,—Even at forty, I
                     would have retained a remnant, and I begged you to save even that. But, no, no!
                     And now, all is ruined!"
                  "Still I acted for the best," said Mr. Williams. "It was your interest, not my
                     own, that I regarded. If I have erred in judgment, thousands have erred with
                     me. No one believed that the affairs of the bank had become so desperate. All
                     looked upon the panic as momentary, and the pressure upon the stock certain to
                     be removed. It was for this reason that I have steadily opposed your
                     sacrificing your property; and I acted by you as I would have acted by my own
                     sister. It now appears that I fatally erred in judgment. But say what you wish
                     done now, and I will act promptly. Shall I sell your stock at fifteen?"
                  "At fifteen! Oh, ruin! ruin! ruin! Fifty thousand dollars shrunk down suddenly
                     to seven thousand! No! better throw all into the sea! It cannot be worse!"
                  "It is a terrible sacrifice!" said Mr. Williams. "Terrible! Fifteen dollars for
                     what cost a hundred and twelve! Who could have dreamed of this? I would have
                     risked a dozen fortunes here. But this great depression can only be the effect
                     of a panic. Prices must advance again, Mrs. Lynn. The bank owns a vast amount
                     of property, and, I still think, will ultimately redeem a large proportion of
                     her stock. The temptation to sell at fifteen cents is so small, that it sees
                     like folly to throw away the prospect of ultimately realizing from forty to
                     fifty thousand dollars for the paltry consideration of six or seven
                     thousand."
                  "What is to become of me!" exclaimed Mrs. Lynn, still wringing her hands, and
                     now beginning to move about the room with every exhibition of distress.
                  "Calm yourself, my dear madam," said Mr. Williams. "The best way to meet an
                     evil is to look it steadily in the face."
                  "Don't speak to me of calmness," replied the widow, impatiently. "Ask a man on
                     the wheel to be calm!"
                  "What will you do? Save what may now be saved—or await the issue of this
                     business?"
                  "Sell at fifteen! What will that avail! To lose every thing can be little
                     worse. It will be ruin at best. No, Mr. Williams I cannot consent to such a
                     sacrifice."
                  "I will not advise you farther," said the agent.
                  "What had I best do?" now asked Mrs. Lynn. The moment she felt that upon
                     herself rested the responsibility of further action, distrust and doubt
                     arose.
                  "I cannot advise you," repeated the agent.
                  "Do you think prices will advance?"
                  "I cannot tell, madam."
                  "Do you think they will be lower?"
                  "This it is equally out of my power to say."
                  "Oh, dear! What shall I do! I wish you would advise me, Mr. Williams. I am at
                     my wit's end. Even seven thousand dollars is better than nothing!"
                  "True."
                  "It will keep the gaunt wolf want from our door a little while."
                  "Yes. Better that than nothing."
                  "Go and sell out, then, Mr. Williams! Go quickly, while there is a chance of
                     saving this poor remnant."
                  The agent bowed in acquiescence, and was moving from the door, when Mrs. Lynn
                     said, eagerly,
                  "Stay! This is too great a sacrifice. Oh, sir! advise me! You understand these
                     matters better than I do. I do not like to take the responsibility of throwing
                     away my children's property in this way. My husband said that I must confide in
                     your judgment. What had I better do?"
                  "Thus far your confidence has proved
                     utterly vain," replied Mr. Williams. "You must now decide for yourself. If you
                     direct me to sell your stock at present prices, I will sell. But the
                     responsibility must be yours."
                  Again Mrs. Lynn commenced wringing her hands and weeping, whilst she
                     sobbed,
                  "Oh, what shall I do! What shall I do!"
                  "Compose yourself and think calmly over the matter during the day," said Mr.
                     Williams. "In the morning I will call again, and then act upon your
                     decision."
                  "But, won't you say what I had best do? What are you going to do in your own
                     case?"
                  "I'm going to wait longer," was the unhesitating answer. "I've made up my mind
                     to run the risk of losing all, rather than sell at present rates. But you must
                     not be guided by my action. You cannot afford to lose all."
                  "If you were in my place, what would you do?"
                  "Don't ask me that question. I am not in your place. But, do as I have
                     suggested. Compose your mind, and think calmly over the matter. Sleep on the
                     question. To-morrow morning I will hear your decision."
                  "Do you think there is any hope of an advance in price, Mr. Williams?" asked
                     Mrs. Lynn, in a voice that implored an answer to the question.
                  "I am totally in the dark, madam," replied the agent.
                  "Surely, you have some opinion! Pity me, and advise me!"
                  "I can say nothing now, Mrs. Lynn. To-morrow I will see you. Perhaps I can
                     advise you then more understandingly than now."
                  The agent departed, and Mrs. Lynn sunk upon a chair, where she remained lost in
                     painful abstraction, until the thought of Mary and her late interview with
                     Philip Emerson, caused her to start quickly to her feet, and pass from the room
                     to seek her daughter's chamber.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  "A MOST distressing affair this," remarked a business friend, to Philip
                     Emerson, a few weeks later in the history of events.
                  "What affair?" inquired the young man.
                  "I allude to the failure of the United States Bank, and the ruin it has brought
                     into hundreds of families."
                  "Oh! Yes, that is a distressing affair, truly, I saw poor Mrs. Meriam a little
                     while ago, and the sight of her made my heart ache. She is reduced, with her
                     children, from competency to want and dependence."
                  "And Mrs. Lynn, too."
                  "What!"
                  "Every thing left by Mr. Lynn, was invested in this stock. Of fifty thousand
                     dollars, but five thousand are left."
                  "Are you not in error here?" asked Emerson.
                  "No, I saw her agent, Mr. Williams, half-an-hour ago; and he told me that he
                     had just paid into her hands the proceeds of five hundred shares at ten dollars
                     a share."
                  "Bless me! I never dreamed of this."
                  "It is too true. Poor woman! I feel very sorry for her."
                  The friend retired, and Emerson fell into a mood of deep thoughtfulness. A
                     generous impulse first moved over the surface of his heart; but the rippling
                     waves soon met a counter current, and all was in commotion. A selfish and
                     sordid principle ruled in his mind, and this opposed the almost instant
                     determination to renew his offer of marriage to Mary Lynn, and thus show her
                     how devoted was his attachment. For the whole of that day the struggle went on,
                     and was continued in the loneliness and silence of his chamber, when he retired
                     at night.
                  Philip had been as sincere in his attachment to Mary as it is possible for any
                     one to be, who admits worldly and selfish considerations into his mind. It is
                     not at all probable, that he would have permitted his love to centre upon her,
                     had she not possessed some attractions beyond what were personal. She was a
                     lovely, pure-minded, right thinking girl, with every quality to give happiness
                     in marriage; and the better Emerson knew her, the more clearly was this
                     perceived. As their intimacy became closer, he lost sight, to a considerable
                     extent, of some of the first mercenary ideas that influenced him, and his
                     affection assumed a truer character. But, now, the baser qualities of his love
                     again appeared. The stream that ran so pure, was troubled. Circumstances had
                     become materially changed.
                  It was near midnight, before the mind of Emerson grew calm in a generous
                     purpose. Then he wrote a letter to Mary.
                  "I have just heard," thus he addressed her, "of the sad loss your mother has
                     sustained in the failure of the United States Bank. Until now, I was not aware
                     that her property was invested in the stock of this institution. The
                     intelligence has deeply grieved me, and, were it not for the relations that
                     exist between you and myself, I would at once hasten to offer your family, in
                     person, the sympathy which I feel. Except for this unhappy event, I should not
                     again have ventured to address you. But, now that I see dark clouds of
                     adversity gathering over the head of one in whom I feel the deepest interest,
                     and hear the distant roar of the coming tempest, I am impelled by something
                     that I cannot resist to renew the offer she a little while ago declined. Dear
                     Mary! believe me, that I address you
                     in no selfish spirit. Do not turn from me again without looking deep into your
                     own heart. If my image is there—and I believe that it is—do not lightly efface
                     it. Drop a line, on receiving this, and say that a visit from me will not be
                     unacceptable. Speak but a single word of encouragement, and I will be instantly
                     at your side."
                  While writing this letter, Emerson felt all the glow of a generous impulse; but
                     as he read it over and over again, and thought of a marriage in which not a
                     single worldly advantage would be gained, his mind became once more troubled,
                     and he wavered in his resolutions.
                  "Shall I humble myself again?" he said aloud. "Shall I put myself in the way of
                     another repulse, that will be more humiliating than former ones? Shall I lay my
                     genuine regard at her feet that she may trample upon it?"
                  Again he entered upon a struggle, which continued until near day dawn. Then he
                     slept for a few hours. His mind was calmer and clearer when he awoke. After
                     thoughtfully reviewing his relation to Mary, and considering her altered
                     condition, he resolved to send the letter he had written, and did so.—But
                     scarcely had it passed from his hands beyond recall, ere he repented of what he
                     had done. In spite of all his efforts to resist its influence, the fact that
                     Mary, if she now accepted his offer, would come to him a portionless bride, was
                     changing, materially, the state of his feelings. The force of attraction with
                     which he was drawn towards her, was sensibly weakened; and he was conscious of
                     the fact.
                  Emerson was an importer and dealer in elegant and fancy articles. His store was
                     much frequented by fashionable people, especially ladies. About an hour after
                     his letter to Mary was dispatched, and when his sober second thoughts were
                     bringing repentance for the act, a young and beautiful girl entered with the
                     design of purchasing some article. She was the daughter of a manufacturer in
                     good circumstances, named Barker, and in her person and accomplishments
                     combined many attractions. She smiled winningly upon Emerson as he met her at
                     the counter. The young man was struck by her beauty more than on any previous
                     occasion; and there was in the tones of her voice a melody he had not perceived
                     before. She lingered longer than usual in making her purchases, and seemed
                     quite interested in the conversation he addressed to her; and, as she left the
                     store, turned, on gaining the street, to glance back at the handsome young
                     dealer.
                  More than flattered was Emerson by this manifestation of interest on the part
                     of the beautiful tiful girl, and her image was distinct before his mind for a
                     long time after she had retired; so distinct, as partially to obscure the image
                     of Mary Lynn.
                  From that time the heart of Emerson beat with a more troubled motion. Hourly he
                     waited, in expectation of an answer to his letter. His pulse would give a
                     quicker throb at the entrance of any one who seemed like the bearer of a
                     communication from Mary. But the day wore on, and no answer came.
                  The letter sent by Emerson to Mary Lynn, came first into the hands of her
                     mother, who unscrupulously broke the seal, and read the contents—with what
                     feelings the reader may imagine. She then placed the letter in a new envelope,
                     re-directed it, and had it sent up to her daughter's room, who received it
                     without the least suspicion that her mother knew what it contained. Mary read
                     it over hastily, and wept as she read. While it remained open in her hand, Mrs.
                     Lynn entered. The first impulse of Mary was to conceal the letter, and she made
                     a movement to do so, but checked herself.
                  "Who is that from?" asked Mrs. Lynn, at once referring to the letter in Mary's
                     hand.
                  "From Philip," was replied, unhesitantingly.
                  "Indeed!" Mrs. Lynn affected surprise. "Can I see it?"
                  Mary handed her the letter, which she read over for the second time.
                  "A noble, generous-hearted young man!" exclaimed Mrs. Lynn, with enthusiasm.
                     "Surely, Mary, you cannot but respond to this in the spirit with which it is
                     written!"
                  "I wish it had not been written," was murmured, in reply.
                  "Why do you say that?" inquired Mrs. Lynn.
                  "Because it will be to me the cause of renewed pain. I had hoped that this
                     trial was over."
                  "Mary, in the present extremity can you for a moment hesitate? Think of me;
                     think of your brother and sister. Will you see us go down into poverty and
                     suffering, when a word from you could save us?"
                  "Oh, mother! Why will you tempt me in this way?" said Mary, in great distress.
                     "If you love me, let me be alone for the present. Give me time to reflect and
                     look upwards."
                  There was more in the manner of this appeal, than in the words, that affected
                     Mrs. Lynn. She felt conscious of having taken an ungenerous advantage of her
                     daughter, and an emotion of shame went over her selfish and worldly heart. For
                     a few moments she lingered in her daughter's room, and then retired. The moment
                     she closed the door, Mary sunk on her knees and buried her face in her hands.
                     For a long, long time, she remained in this attitude, almost motionless. When,
                     at last, she rose, her face was calm, and elevated in expression. A little
                     while afterwards she left the house and took her way towards a less fashionable part of the town
                     than that in which she resided. At a moderate-sized, comfortable-looking house,
                     she stopped, and on ringing, was admitted. Running up stairs, as familiarly as
                     if at home, she entered one of the rooms, where sat a lady past the prime of
                     life, in whose countenance was impressed the beauty of a truly wise and
                     virtuous spirit.
                  "Mary, dear!" she said, affectionately, as the young girl entered, and she
                     kissed her fair cheek with the tenderness of a mother.
                  "Dear aunt!" replied Mary, leaning her face against her, and trying to repress
                     the sobs that were ready to break forth. "I have come to ask you a few more
                     questions, and to seek further your advice."
                  "Say on, child," returned the lady.
                  "I wish to speak of Philip," said Mary.
                  "Does he still persecute you with his offers of marriage?" was remarked, in a
                     voice of surprise.
                  "He has heard of our loss of property, and comes forward again. But here is his
                     letter—read it."
                  The aunt—she was the sister of Mary's father—took the letter of Emerson and
                     read it carefully.
                  "I hardly expected this of him," she remarked, as she refolded the letter, and
                     handed it back to Mary. "It certainly places him in a more favorable
                     light."
                  "Does it alter his real quality of mind?" asked Mary.
                  "All acts that spring from unselfish motives, change, in a degree, the evil
                     qualities of the mind. A man who does right from a deliberate purpose, is just
                     so much the better. He may recede or advance from the point gained, according
                     as he afterwards gives place to good or bad influences."
                  "Yes, I can understand that. But I wish to ask you one or two questions about
                     Philip."
                  "Say on."
                  "About the two pictures he sold to Mr. Harding. You are certain that Philip
                     represented them as having just been received from his agent in Paris?"
                  "So Mr. Harding informed me!"
                  "And you are still further certain that he bought them for a mere trifle, at a
                     sale in New York?"
                  "I am. The pictures belonged to an old friend of mine in that city. I have seen
                     them on her walls hundreds of times. When I saw them again at Mr. Harding's,
                     and heard his story about having paid Emerson five hundred dollars for the
                     pair, as choice old pictures, just received from his agent in Paris, I was
                     curious enough to write to my friend. She informed me that she had sent a part
                     of her furniture to auction—these pictures among the rest—and that the latter
                     had sold for ten dollars lars apiece. I didn't like the look of this. Knowing
                     Emerson's intimacy with you, I determined to gain some certain information on
                     the subject, and so wrote to my friend asking her as a favor to ascertain, if
                     possible, from the auctioneer, the name of the purchaser of the pictures. In a
                     few days I received an answer, stating that the name was Emerson. I wrote still
                     further, inquiring as to his residence. It was in this city. That I might be
                     entirely certain in the matter, I then related to my friend how the pictures
                     had been sold for five hundred dollars, and under what representations, and
                     asked if she would oblige me by a still more particular inquiry of the
                     auctioneer, who happened to be a friend. Her reply was conclusive. Philip
                     Emerson is the man. Moreover, she wrote that the auctioneer expressed himself
                     as not in the least surprised. 'That,' said he, 'is one of his every day
                     tricks. I shall hear all about it on his next visit to New York. If his own
                     stories are true, he has made several thousand dollars in the last few years by
                     operations of this kind. He's a shrewd fellow; and thinks nothing of a business
                     lie. All fair in trade is his motto.'"
                  Mary sighed deeply as her aunt ceased speaking.
                  "He is not an honest man," said she, at length, in a firm voice.
                  "Actions like this do not flow from an honest principle," replied the aunt.
                  "A good tree cannot bear evil fruit."
                  "Nor a sweet fountain send forth bitter waters," added the aunt. "Still, Mary,
                     we must take this into consideration, that men engaged in business are very
                     apt, in their eagerness for gain, to lose sight of the landmarks of strict
                     integrity. Where trick and overreaching is resorted to on every hand, even
                     honest men may be led, almost imperceptibly, away from their integrity."
                  "Not honest men, aunt," replied Mary. "If there were not a basis of dishonesty
                     in the mind, a man would shrink from a dishonest act as quickly as shrinks the
                     leaf of a sensitive plant when touched."
                  "You are no doubt correct in this," remarked the aunt.
                  "I am in a great strait," said Mary, in a sad voice. "Mother knows of this
                     letter from Philip, and expects me to return a favorable answer. If I regarded
                     myself alone, I would not hesitate a moment. But, in my decision, the happiness
                     and comfort of others are involved. Mother has lost, by the failure of the
                     bank, nearly every thing. We are left without the means of support. If I accept
                     Philip's renewed offer, little apparent change will take place in our external
                     circumstances. But, if I decline it, we sink down at once from our present
                     position. As for myself I am ready to
                     meet any form of worldly reverse, to bear any privation and toil that may come,
                     rather than give myself to a man in whose integrity I can place no sure
                     reliance. How could I unite myself to the moral wisdom of my husband, when in
                     heart he was dishonest? My spirit, instead of uniting in a glad and happy
                     union, would shrink away and turn from him. Instead of a gradual unition, going
                     on from day to day and year to year, there would be a gradual separation, and
                     both would become wretched. Oh! the very thought appals me! Dear aunt! think
                     for me, and advise me in this fearful extremity."
                  "As each one is responsible for his own actions, with each individual must rest
                     the determination to action."
                  "I know that, aunt. But feeling too often obscures the judgment. The mind of
                     one in my position can hardly be said to be in equilibrium."
                  "The minds of all are held in perpetual equilibrium, Mary. Every one who
                     sincerely desires to do right, will, in passing through life's trials and
                     temptations, see the right way so clearly that not a doubt will remain. And so
                     it will be in your case. All that is needed is firmness to do right in the face
                     of all consequences."
                  "If I cannot respect Philip—if I utterly condemn the principles that govern his
                     business life—if I see him to be so blinded by selfishness as to do wrong to
                     his neighbors, ought I to marry him?"
                  "Answer the question yourself, Mary."
                  "Most emphatically do I say no," was the earnest reply of Mary Lynn.
                  "Right, my child! Right! The evil consequences of such a union may not be
                     calculated," responded the aunt, warmly. "It is not the mere person that is
                     loved, in marriage; nor is it the intellectual endowments; nor graces of mind
                     and action. No, love goes far below all these, and seeks for mental and moral
                     qualities, and, if it does not find what is good and true, it droops, and
                     withers, and dies. If you would not put your happiness bother here and
                     hereafter in jeopardy, decline this offer."
                  "My heart blesses you for these words!" exclaimed Mary, grasping the hand of
                     her aunt. "They give strength to my own weak purpose in this time of painful
                     trial."
                  "You must look higher for strength, my dear child; for you will need a greater
                     than human aid to sustain you in passing through the fire."
                  Mary's eyes glanced upwards involuntarily.
                  "How sadly mother will be disappointed at this decision," murmured the young
                     girl, breaking, soon after, the silence that succeeded her last remark.
                  "The time, I doubt not, will come," said the aunt, "when she will rejoice that
                     you had the the firmness to reject an offer that promised so much of worldly
                     advantage, with so little of genuine happiness."
                  "Until that time, what will I not have to suffer? Oh, how my heart shrinks from
                     the trial," sighed Mary.
                  "God will give you strength," was answered. "Be true to yourself and him, and
                     you will be fully sustained."
                  Again the maiden's eyes glanced upwards, and she breathed a prayer for
                     sustaining power.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  A DAY had elapsed since Emerson despatched the letter to Mary, renewing his
                     offer of marriage, and yet no answer had been received. Scarcely had that
                     letter passed from his hands beyond recall, ere he repented of what he had
                     done, and from that time he was in a state of restless anxiety, which drew a
                     veil between his perceptions and all that was lovely and attractive in the girl
                     he had been so desirous to lead to the marriage altar.
                  On the next morning, Miss Barker visited his store again. She looked even more
                     beautiful in his eyes than on the day previous; and there was in her manner a
                     winning grace that captivated his feelings. She lingered at his counter longer
                     than usual, and, in going away, remarked that she would call again in the
                     afternoon to look at some elegant fans which Emerson said he was about to
                     open.
                  "Why did I act so precipitately?" said the young man to himself, with a
                     troubled feeling, as the graceful form of the beautiful girl faded from his
                     eyes, yet still remained distinctly present to his mental vision. "What could I
                     have been thinking about? So much for giving way to a mere generous
                     impulse!"
                  Some one entered the store at the moment. Emerson turned his head, and saw that
                     it was the city despatch carrier. How suddenly his heart did throb. The man
                     came back to where he was standing and presented him a letter. His hands shook
                     as he broke the seal. A moment more, and the suspense was over. It was simply
                     an order from a customer for goods.
                  For a short time Emerson felt as weak as if just from a bed of sickness, and
                     moving slowly back to a remote part of his store, sat down to recollect his
                     thoughts and get control of his feelings.
                  "Why does she not answer my letter?" he said to himself. "What am I to
                     understand by this delay? I am entitled to at least a prompt response. Or, does
                     she mean to treat this generous offer with silent contempt!"
                  An indignant emotion swelled in the heart of the young man, as he gave
                     utterance to the last sentence. For a
                     few moments he remained in deep thought. Then turning to his desk, he took up
                     his pen and wrote, hurriedly, these few words, addressed to Mary Lynn.
                  "Let me ask, as a favor, that you destroy my note of yesterday, and forget that
                     it was ever received."
                  Without pausing to reflect or change his suddenly formed purpose, Emerson
                     dispatched this brief communication.
                  It was towards evening, on the day previous, when Mrs. Lynn repaired to the
                     room of her daughter, in order to learn her decision in a matter that concerned
                     them both so deeply. She found Mary sitting at a table, in the act of folding a
                     letter which she had just written.
                  "Have you replied to Philip yet?" she asked.
                  "Yes, mother," said Mary, in a low, yet firm voice.
                  "How have you replied?" was the next, and eagerly asked question.
                  Without a word, Mary handed her mother the letter she had just written. Mrs.
                     Lynn almost tore the folds in her eagerness to get at the contents. They were
                     as follows, and were taken in at a glance:
                  "I am touched by the manner in which you have renewed your offer of marriage,
                     and thank you most sincerely for the generous sentiments expressed. But, deeply
                     conscious that a union would fail to secure either your happiness or mine, I am
                     constrained to adhere to my first decision. Philip! Try and forget me."
                  As the eyes of Mrs. Lynn rested on the last words, she tore the letter into
                     ribbons, and scattered them passionately on the floor.
                  "And this is your love for me, foolish girl!" she exclaimed.
                  Mary trembled in every nerve, and shrunk beneath the angry gaze that was fixed
                     upon her. She felt a strong impulse to say, in a spirit of self-sacrifice.
                  "I will accept his offer." But something held her back; and she remained
                     silent.
                  "Is this a time to hesitate?" resumed the mother. "When it is in your power to
                     save yourself and family from poverty, humiliation and distress, will you
                     refuse in obedience to some girlish fancy? Happiness! How could you use the
                     word in such connexion? Where do you expect happiness to come from?"
                  "I do not expect much in this life," replied Mary, tears falling slowly over
                     her face. "But I would avoid an abyss of wretchedness, a single glance into
                     which has filled my heart with terror."
                  To this the mother answered only with an expression of impatience. In the
                     silence that followed, both grew calmer. Mrs. Lynn then changed her mode of
                     address, and sought to influence her daughter by appeals that the poor child
                     found it almost impossible to resist.
                  Again the struggle was renewed in her mind, and once more she passed amid the
                     clouds and shadows of doubt. A further time for reflection was granted. The
                     anguish of the night that followed, Mary did not forget in many years. Brief
                     was her sleep and sadly troubled; and the morning found her still unprepared to
                     act. When she thought of accepting the offer, her whole nature appeared to rise
                     up in opposition; and when she thought of her mother, her heart grew faint, and
                     she shrunk from the trial that was before her.
                  Twice during the morning had Mrs. Lynn appealed to Mary against a longer
                     delay.
                  "It is not just to Philip to keep him thus in suspense," she said.
                  But Mary was not prepared to act.
                  It was about eleven o'clock, and the deeply tried girl sat writing another
                     answer to Emerson's offer of marriage—it was the same as the first—when Mrs.
                     Lynn burst into her room with a pale, agitated face, and an open letter in her
                     hand.
                  "Mad girl! See what your delay has wrought!" she exclaimed, flinging the letter
                     on the table before Mary, who caught it up eagerly. It was from Emerson, and
                     read—"Let me ask, as a favor, that you destroy my note of yesterday, and forget
                     that it was ever received."
                  "Thank God!" murmured the tried and tempted girl, clasping her hands together,
                     and lifting upwards her eyes that were suddenly filled with tears. "Thank God!
                     It is over!"
                  Then covering her face with her hands, she sobbed until every nerve and muscle
                     quivered in the intensity of her emotion.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  WE pass over two years with but a glance at its events. The disappointment of
                     Mrs. Lynn, at the failure of Mary to accept the hand of Mr. Emerson, was very
                     great, and her feelings, in consequence, much embittered towards her daughter,
                     who was rendered thereby very unhappy. Misfortunes rarely come alone. So it
                     proved in the case of Mrs. Lynn. The five thousand dollars saved out of the
                     wreck of her property, was deposited, temporarily, in one of the city banks,
                     until such time as a good investment of the sum could be made. The failure of
                     the bank, ere the deposit was withdrawn, swept away this poor remnant of her
                     fortune, and left her helpless and almost penniless.
                  To a weak minded woman whose heart is filled with a love of the world, a
                     reverse like this is paralyzing. Such a woman was Mrs. Lynn. Up to this time,
                     since parting with her depreciated stock at ten dollars a share, she had sought to keep up the
                     old appearance of things in order to deceive others in regard to her real
                     condition. Mary's steady rejection of so good an offer as that made by Emerson,
                     tried her sorely. But she still had hope that her beautiful and accomplished
                     daughter would attract some suitor of equal merit. In this, however, her hope
                     found no realization. Mary was neither wooed nor won when this second disaster
                     came—and ruined every thing.
                  As is usual in such cases, only a few friends were found to draw near and
                     sympathize with the distressed family, and these had little to offer but good
                     advice as to how they were to help themselves. In the eyes of a woman like Mrs.
                     Lynn, there is something disgraceful attached to useful labor. The idea of
                     either herself or her daughter working for money, shocked her the moment it was
                     presented. But Mary's mind was of a better quality, and she had, in her aunt,
                     one to advise her who saw with a far better vision than did her mother. In
                     every state of doubt and trial, Mary went to her aunt Edith, and she usually
                     found, in the calm and just views of life and life's duties, strength to walk
                     patiently and firmly in the way that opened before her.
                  For three days after the failure of the bank in which had been placed the
                     little remnant of her property, Mrs. Lynn, completely prostrate in mind and
                     body, kept her bed and refused to be comforted. In this unhappy state of
                     affairs, Mary wrote to her brother, a lad in his seventeenth year, who was away
                     at school, advising him of the total wreck of their fortunes, and desiring him
                     to come home immediately. His name was William. Her sister Agnes, younger than
                     William by three years, was at home. The brother did not hesitate a moment in
                     obeying the summons. This action on the part of Mary gave offence to her
                     mother, who accused her of taking upon herself more than she was entitled to
                     assume. This Mary bore without reply; but, when her mother desired her son to
                     return to school immediately, she did not hesitate to ask—
                  "How are we to pay the expense?"
                  "One would think that your tongue would cleave to the roof of your mouth in
                     asking that question!" was the unfeeling retort of Mrs. Lynn. "For this
                     extremity we may thank you."
                  Mary drooped her head meekly and remained silent.
                  "William must go back to school," said the mother, firmly. "He must complete
                     his education at every sacrifice."
                  "We have nothing to sacrifice, mother," urged Mary. "When the bills become due
                     how are we to pay them?"
                  But Mrs. Lynn would hearken en to none of these suggestions of her daughter.
                     There was still in her mind the purpose to keep up an appearance, and one of
                     the means of doing so was to let William remain at an expensive school,
                     regardless as to whether the bills for board and tuition were ever paid or not.
                     She did not succeed, however, in carrying out this plan, for William refused,
                     positively, after a long and earnest conference with his sister, to return to
                     school, and, in the face of his mother's angry remonstrance, procured for
                     himself a situation in a store. For service therein he was to receive a hundred
                     dollars a year. The boy, like Mary, had in him something of the upright and
                     independent spirit of his father.
                  For the house in which Mrs. Lynn was living at the time her fortunes became so
                     sadly changed, she paid the annual rent of six hundred dollars. She was still
                     in this house, although her resources were exhausted, and debts were beginning
                     to accumulate at every point, while those who knew something of her real
                     circumstances, were beginning to wonder how she could maintain so expensive a
                     style. Of course she was in a state of wretchedness scarcely to be
                     described—and Mary was almost as wretched as herself. Many plans for aiding in
                     the support of the family had passed through the mind of the latter; but, while
                     living at the present expense, exertion on her part was felt to be hopeless,
                     and she awaited, passively, the issue of events.
                  The end of this came at last. Landlord, grocers, market men and others became
                     impatient for their money, and Mrs. Lynn was compelled to sell the best part of
                     her furniture to satisfy their claims, and then to move into a smaller house.
                     Here she made a slight stand against the pressure of adversity; but it was only
                     for a brief space. She had yet to go down lower. Without an income what else
                     could she have expected?
                  At the end of two years we find them poor indeed. They are living in a part of
                     a small house, in a neighborhood through which Mrs. Lynn would, in her better
                     days, scarcely have permitted her coachman to drive. Their only income is from
                     the labor of their hands. Yes, they are poor indeed, and Mrs. Lynn, struggling
                     angrily against her fate, is very wretched. Not for a moment has she forgiven
                     Mary for refusing the hand of Emerson.
                  Up to this time the work done by Mary and her mother has been needle-work
                     obtained at the Ladies' Repository—Work has procured here because it could be
                     done without exposing the fact to the parties worked for, who left their
                     garments at the repository, and received them again, without knowing by whose
                     hands they had been made up. This saved from mortification the false and stubborn pride of Mrs. Lynn; but it reduced
                     them to the necessity of long and fatiguing labor and a meager income, while
                     Mary possessed higher abilities, which, if brought into use, would have yielded
                     a far better return than needle-work. These abilities, the true-hearted,
                     right-thinking girl at last determined to bring into exercise. What led
                     particularly to this resolution on her part, was a consciousness of the defect
                     suffered by her sister in not attending school.
                  "Agnes must receive a better education," she said to herself. "If the present
                     time is lost, she suffers a detriment for life. Let mine be the task of
                     procuring the means."
                  While revolving this subject in her mind, she read, in a morning paper, that
                     fell accidentally in her hands, an advertisement for a governess.-Without
                     consulting her mother, or any one else, she went immediately to the place where
                     applicants were desired to call. It was at a large and handsome dwelling, and
                     the name of Barker was on the door. On being admitted she was shown by the
                     servant into the back parlor. As she sat down she observed a gentleman and lady
                     in the other room, but did not notice them particularly, until startled by the
                     familiar tones of the former. It was Philip Emerson!—and he was conversing in a
                     gay, familiar voice, with his companion.
                  The reader will scarcely wonder that the already uneven pulses of Mary Lynn
                     throbbed with a deeper disturbance at this discovery. Turning her face away, so
                     that the young man could not see it, Mary awaited the appearance of Mrs.
                     Barker, the lady who wished a governess, struggling all the while to repress
                     her emotions. After the lapse of about five minutes, a lady entered the room,
                     and said, as she sat down near her, in a voice that could be heard distinctly
                     through both parlors—
                  "So you wish to inquire about this situation of a governess?"
                  "I do," replied Mary, in a low voice.
                  "Have you ever acted in this capacity?"
                  "No, ma'am."
                  "I'm afraid you are too young. What is your name?"
                  "Mary Lynn," was answered in the same low voice with which she had at first
                     spoken.
                  "Mary Lynn," repeated the lady so loud as almost to awaken an echo in the
                     adjoining room.
                  Mary knew that Philip was at once aware of her presence and her errand; and she
                     could not prevent a quicker motion of her heart, nor keep back a crimson flush
                     from her face.
                  "Mary Lynn." Mrs. Barker again pronounced the name, adding, as she did so, with
                     a smile, "There is something familiar in the sound. Are you any relation to
                     Mrs. Justin Lynn, widow of the late Justin Lynn?"
                  "She is my mother," replied Mary.
                  "Your mother. Is it possible! What then does this mean? Has there been any
                     change in her circumstances?"
                  "Oh yes, ma'am. All her property was in the United States Bank Stock. By the
                     failure of that institution, she lost every thing."
                  "I am really grieved to hear this," was the sympathizing answer. "Your mother
                     and I were young girls together; although we have not happened to meet for
                     years. Did you say that she had lost every thing?"
                  "Yes, ma'am, every thing. By the labor of our hands, we now procure the means
                     of living."
                  "Oh, that is sad! sad indeed! And you are now seeking the place of a
                     governess?"
                  "I saw your advertisement, and have come to make some inquiries on the
                     subject," replied Mary.
                  "You have had a good English education, I presume?" said Mrs. Barker.
                  "I believe so," was modestly answered.
                  "I have three little girls, two daughters and a niece, for whom I wish to
                     employ a governess," said Mrs. Barker, who had from the first, felt a
                     prepossesion towards Mary, and whose mind was already made up to give her the
                     place if she would accept it. "They are eight, ten, and twelve years old. I
                     want a person who will take the entire care of them, as well as give them all
                     required instruction in English. For music and the languages, teachers are to
                     be employed. The situation will be a responsible one, and the duties rather
                     trying; but, to the right person, we are ready to give a liberal
                     compensation."
                  "How large will be the compensation?" asked Mary.
                  "Five hundred dollars a year."
                  "I think that I could give you satisfaction," said Mary.
                  "I feel certain that you could," replied Mrs. Barker, "and, if you are willing
                     to come, we will at least make the trial. My intention was to ask references
                     from all applicants, as a measure of just precaution; but I believe that I will
                     waive this, in your case. I like your face and manner, and will take you on
                     their recommendation."
                  "That would hardly be wise," said Mary, smiling. "I can give you the names of a
                     few ladies who knew me best in our brighter days. I do not think that they
                     would speak of me otherwise than kindly. As for my ability to fill the place of
                     a governess, that can only be known on trial. I like children, and believe that
                     I have patience and perseverance. I know that I will try, in all sincerity, to
                     do what is right."
                  "And thus trying, you will succeed," replied Mrs. Barker, with some warmth of
                     manner. "No, Mary, I will not seek to go beyond my own personal estimate timate in this brief interview. If you
                     are willing to come for a few weeks on trial, I will look no farther."
                  "When do you wish me to come?" asked Mary.
                  "As early as it will suit your convenience."
                  "In a week?"
                  "Yes, that will answer.—Where do you live?"
                  Mary replied to this question, and then went away, promising to call in a few
                     days to make more definite arrangements for becoming an inmate of the
                     family.
                  "A very interesting girl, that," said Mrs. Barker, as soon as Mary had retired,
                     entering, as she spoke, the front parlor where Philip Emerson sat conversing
                     with her oldest daughter, Caroline.
                  "Who is she?" asked Caroline.
                  "Her name is Lynn—Mary Lynn. She is the daughter of the late Justin Lynn, who
                     was a man of considerable property when he died. But, the unfortunate failure
                     of the United States Bank, has swept every thing from his family, and his
                     daughter now seeks a means of livelihood."
                  "Poor girl!" sighed Caroline, in a voice of real sympathy.
                  Emerson made no remark; but he felt ill at ease.
                  "I knew her mother when I was your age. We went to school together. Her father
                     was highly esteemed, and had the reputation of being one of the most
                     scrupulously just men in the community. If his daughter is like him in
                     character, her introduction into our family will be a most desirable
                     thing."
                  Mrs. Barker then left the room. Caroline continued to remark on the sad change
                     of fortune in Mary Lynn's case; but Emerson did not trust himself with a word
                     on the subject. He lingered but a short time after Mary retired.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  THE unexpected appearance of Mary Lynn in the family of Mrs. Barker, and the
                     prospect of her becoming an inmate, disturbed the mind of Emerson very greatly.
                     He did not like it at all.—The more so, as from what had reached him, he was
                     satisfied that Mary's refusal to accept his offer of marriage, was based upon a
                     knowledge of some of his overreaching transactions in business.
                  "She must not enter this family," said he, with an emphasis, and a compression
                     of the lips, that marked the earnestness of his purpose. And he quickened his
                     pace as he gave utterance to these words.
                  When Mary informed her mother of what she had done, Mrs. Lynn was both
                     surprised and indignant.
                  "You become a governess, and to Sally Barker's brats!" was her coarse and angry
                     response. "Never! I will work my finger ends off, or starve, first."
                  "She will pay me five hundred dollars a year. Think how comfortable that will
                     make you all," said Mary, in her meek and quiet way.
                  "Don't mention it again. I will not accept of comforts at that cost!" replied
                     Mrs. Lynn, passionately.
                  Mary said no more; but she was none the less determined to avail herself of
                     Mrs. Barker's offer. Her mother had much that was unreasonable to say, but the
                     true-hearted girl entered into no useless argument, content with her own
                     unfaltering conviction that what she purposed doing was right.
                  Some two hours after Mary's return from the house of Mrs. Barker, a letter was
                     left at the door for Mrs. Lynn. On opening it, she found to her astonishment,
                     that it was from Philip Emerson. The contents were these:
                  "MY DEAR MADAM:—I have just learned, with painful surprise, that your
                     circumstances have become so reduced that you are in great extremity. To have
                     saved you from this deep depression, would have constituted my greatest
                     pleasure in life, but my ardent attachment to your daughter was not
                     reciprocated, and so this pleasure was denied me. Still, the memory of the
                     past, as well as the impulses of a naturally generous heart, prompt me, in all
                     sincerity, to offer you aid in your present necessities. Pray accept, as an
                     earnest of my good will, the enclosed sum of one hundred dollars. Every three
                     months you will receive a like sum; and if that should not be sufficient for
                     your wants, more will cheerfully be added. "Your sincere friend, "PHILIP
                     EMERSON."
                  With all her pride, Mrs. Lynn had no true delicacy nor independence of feeling.
                     This letter awoke in her mind a thrill of pleasure, and, moreover, created a
                     new hope. It was plain to her that Emerson still entertained a sincere
                     attachment for Mary, and that this was but another advance towards a renewal of
                     his addresses.
                  "Read that!" said Mrs. Lynn, in an excited, exultant voice, placing, as she
                     spoke, the letter of Emerson in her daughter's hand.
                  "Oh, mother! Send it back! Send it back!" exclaimed Mary, as soon as she
                     comprehended the meaning of the letter. "Don't touch a dollar of his money! How
                     could he dare do such a thing!"
                  With unfeigned astonishment, Mrs. Lynn looked at her daughter.
                  "No, I will not send it back," she replied.—"Do you think I would thus insult
                     his generous spirit? No! Deeply thankful am I for such a friend in this trying extremity."
                  "He is a false friend, mother, and such you will find him," said Mary. "Oh, do
                     not touch his money!"
                  But she might have talked to the wind as well. The hand of Mrs. Lynn had
                     clutched the timely supply with an eager grasp, and more than the opposition of
                     Mary was required to make her release her hold.
                  If Mary had in the least wavered in her purpose to become a governess in the
                     situation offered, this circumstance would have determined her. She felt that
                     he had made up his mind to persecute her, and that in Mrs. Barker's family she
                     would be safe from all advances. That her mother should accept this proffer of
                     money, touched her with a sense of shame and humiliation; and she resolved
                     that, with her first earnings, she would cancel the debt.
                  "I have checked that move," said Philip Emerson, to himself, as he sealed and
                     despatched the letter to Mrs. Lynn, containing a hundred dollars. His manner
                     expressed exultation, though not unmingled with concern—"Mary Lynn must not
                     become an inmate of Mr. Barker's family. At least not for the present. She
                     might mar every thing. Three months more, and she may come and go at her
                     pleasure. I wish I had never known the girl!"
                  "You look sober, Philip," said an intimate friend of Emerson's, on calling in
                     to see him that evening.
                  "Do I?" The young man affected to smile.
                  "You certainly do. Is any thing wrong?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Ah! What is it?"
                  "You know what a long siege I've had with Caroline Barker, or, rather, with her
                     family?"
                  "Well?"
                  "Every thing has been going on as merry as a marriage bell since the old folks
                     gave up their opposition, and I now stand with them A. No. 1. In three months I
                     lead Caroline to the altar, and become the happiest man alive."
                  "Any thing so terrible in that?" said the friend smiling.
                  "No, not in that. But there's an enemy in the camp."
                  "Indeed!"
                  "Yes. You remember that affair of mine with Mary Lynn?"
                  "Very well. At least I remember your being once her devoted lover, and that she
                     jilted you. But the why and the wherefore I never heard."
                  "Curse the hypocritical jade!" said Emerson, with some bitterness of manner.
                     "I'm mad with myself whenever I think what a fool I was to repeat my offer of
                     marriage after she had once refused me. If I had only known her reason!"
                  "What was it?" inquired the friend.
                  "You wouldn't guess for a week."
                  "I shall not waste time with trying," was answered.
                  "She didn't like my way of conducting business."
                  "Indeed!"
                  "No. I wasn't green enough for her,"
                  "I don't take your drift."
                  "You remember the two pictures I bought so cheap at a sale in New York, and
                     afterwards sold them to Mr. Harding?"
                  "I believe so."
                  "I mentioned it to you at the time. They were sent to auction by some one who
                     didn't know their true value, and I got them for a song. Of course, I was
                     entitled to receive for them what they were really worth."
                  "Certainly you were."
                  "For what cost me twenty dollars, I received five hundred."
                  "A handsome profit, certainly. But why should your young lady object to
                     this?"
                  "Of course, I had to throw a little dust in the eyes of Mr. Harding."
                  "Ah!"
                  "I showed him the pictures, after getting them cleaned up a little, as two fine
                     old subjects of the Flemish school, just received from my agent in Paris. An
                     innocent deception, you know, such as is practiced in trade every day."
                  "Yes. Well?"
                  "Somehow or other, as the old Nick would have it, this fact, as I have since
                     understood, with a few others of a like character, came to the ears of Mary,
                     and, forthwith, the little saint takes it into her perverse head that I am a
                     monster of iniquity, and so gives me the mitten. I've blessed my stars that she
                     did so a hundred times since. I was fool enough, in a fit of weak generosity,
                     it is true, to renew my offer when I heard of her mother's reverse of fortune;
                     but while she was delaying an answer, in fear of showing too much eagerness to
                     fly into my arms, I prudently withdrew my proposal."
                  "For which, of course, she has never forgiven you."
                  "I presume not. Well, to go on with my story. To-day, while I was holding a
                     pleasant tete-a-tete with Caroline, who
                     should drop in but Mary Lynn."
                  "Is she a friend of the family?"
                  "No. Mrs. Barker advertised for a governess, and she came to apply for the
                     situation."
                  "Oh!"
                  "I was sitting in the front of the parlor with Caroline, and heard the whole
                     interview between her and Mrs. Barker."
                  "Did she make an engagement to come?"
                  "Yes. And now you understand why I say that there is an enemy in the camp. Old
                     Barker is as suspicious as he can be; and although he is agreeable enough, I am
                     perfectly aware that he doesn't consider me as the most desirable son-in-law in
                     the world, and that, if he could find a pretty good reason, he would oppose
                     this marriage even now."
                  "Do you think Mary would try to
                     position the family against you?"
                  "I wouldn't trust her. At any rate it is better to keep danger at a
                     distance."
                  "True. But how will you accomplish this?"
                  "I've made one move, that I thought at first would be effectual. But in
                     thinking more about it, I feel less confidence in the result. I sent her
                     mother—the family is in extreme poverty—a hundred dollars, with a promise to
                     supply an equal sum quarterly. This will remove the necessity for Mary to go
                     from home."
                  "What reason did you assign for such an act of extra generosity?"
                  "My interest in the family, and all that."
                  "I don't think it will answer," said the friend. "If Mrs. Lynn has a particle
                     of womanly spirit, she will return the money."
                  "She hasn't done so yet, and some hours have elapsed since I sent it."
                  "You'd better ward off the danger in a more effectual way."
                  "How?"
                  "Don't wait until she sows the seeds of prejudice against you in the family of
                     Mrs. Barker. Sow them first against her."
                  "Ah, ha! I didn't think of that!" said Emerson, with a sudden warmth of
                     manner.—"You're right. I'll do it."
                  "You'll have to act guardedly."
                  "I know. Let me see. How shall I proceed?"
                  "If you appear in the matter, the slightest error will ruin you. My advice is,
                     that you say nothing about her."
                  "Then I can do nothing."
                  "That doesn't follow. You can write a letter, can't you?"
                  "A letter?"
                  "Yes; an anonymous letter, warning the family not to put confidence in a
                     certain young lady who has applied for the situation of governess. It will not
                     be necessary to name her. A fair description will suffice. You can insinuate
                     any thing against her you please. But I would not go beyond insinuation. That
                     will do your work effectually."
                  "That's it. I wish I'd seen you before I threw my hundred dollars away."
                  "That was a useless waste of money."
                  "Confound the girl! I wish she'd keep out of my way. I don't want to do her any
                     harm. But I can't and won't permit her to step in between me and one of the
                     dearest objects of my life."
                  "You'd be a fool if you did."
                  "Wouldn't I? A precious fool!"
                  "What is done in this matter," said the friend, "had better be done quickly.
                     And as I can't help you in the work, I'll leave you to go about it at once. So,
                     good evening, and may all come to a safe issue."
                  The friend then retired, and Emerson sat himself down seriously to the task of
                     creating a base and ruinous suspicion against the pure-minded Mary Lynn.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  THE unwavering purpose of Mary to accept the offer of Mrs. Barker, met with the
                     strongest opposition from her mother, which was continued up to the very moment
                     of her leaving their humble place of abode to enter upon her new home. In the
                     hope of influencing her daughter, Mrs. Lynn resorted to language of a most
                     heartless character, and used some words that stung the poor girl cruelly.
                  With her mind, from this cause, in a state of agitation, Mary went forth to
                     lead her new path of duty, feeling sad, even to wretchedness. If there had been
                     but a single cheerful, encouraging word from her mother, how bravely and even
                     happily would she have entered upon this new and toilsome path in life! But all
                     was opposition, harshness, and smarting condemnation.
                  With a heart laboring heavily under its burden of painful feeling, Mary went
                     forth from the cheerless home of her mother, and took her way toward the
                     residence of Mrs. Barker. She did not observe, as she drew near the house, that
                     a young man was just in advance of her, and that he stopped at the door to
                     which she was going; for her eyes were upon the ground, and her thoughts were
                     not cognizant of any thing passing around her.
                  No wonder that she started, nor that a crimson flush mounted to her face, as
                     she set her foot upon the step in front of Mr. Barker's house, and, looking up,
                     met the eye of Philip Emerson. The young man was as much surprised at this
                     unexpected meeting as herself. But not the slightest sign of recognition
                     appeared in his countenance. For a moment he looked coldly upon her, and then
                     turned, as a servant opened the door, and passed in.
                  Mary followed, asking, as she did so, to see Mrs. Barker.
                  Caroline Barker met Philip Emerson in the front parlor, where they entered into
                     conversation in a low tone of voice, while Mary sat, in view of them, in the
                     back parlor, trembling in every nerve from the excitement created by the
                     unexpected meeting with her former lover.
                  Several minutes elapsed before a servant came in and desired Mary to walk up
                     into the sitting room, where Mrs. Barker wished to see her. The moment Mary
                     came into the lady's presence, she perceived a change in her manner from what
                     it was at the previous interview. She did not smile, but received her with a
                     grave formality that instantly chilled the feelings of the unhappy girl.
                  "I have come, as I promised, madam,"
                     said Mary, so soon as she had taken the seat proffered to her.
                  Mrs. Barker slightly inclined her head, and looked still more serious. A
                     servant was in the room, and seemed disposed to linger.
                  "You can go up and see to the children," said Mrs. Barker to the servant, who,
                     after lingering a short time longer, left the room.
                  The heart of Mary was beating, by this time, with a heavy, oppressive motion,
                     that was actually painful. A few moments of silence ensued, which Mary broke,
                     by saying—
                  "If you have seen reason to change your mind towards me, do not hesitate about
                     the matter."
                  Mrs. Barker did not hesitate to comply with this invitation to speak out
                     plainly—and she said—
                  "I have seen reason to change my first intention in regard to you, and frankly
                     own that I have well grounded doubts as to the propriety of introducing you
                     into my family. Forgive this plainness of speech, but plain speech, in these
                     cases, is always best."
                  At these words, the face of Mary Lynn became very pale, and for a moment or
                     two, she seemed to grasp for breath. Recovering herself quickly, she said, in a
                     husky voice—
                  "Then your objection lies against something in my character?"
                  "It does," replied Mrs. Barker, with a severity of tone that, while it stung
                     Mary, aroused in her mind a sense of virtuous indignation.
                  "Of course," said she, speaking with more self-possession, "you have received
                     information against me since I was here a few days ago. Then all your feelings
                     seemed to be in my favor."
                  "True; such is the case," said Mrs. Barker.
                  "May I ask the source of this information, and the nature of the allegations
                     made?"
                  Mrs. Barker drew from her pocket a letter, and placed it in the young girl's
                     hands.
                  Opening it, Mary read as follows:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "TO MRS. BARKER.
                              
                              "MADAM:—Having learned, accidentally, that a certain young
                                 personage is about applying to you for the situation of governess,
                                 I feel it to be my duty to caution you against her, as one whose
                                 introduction into your family may give trouble. There are many
                                 things about her conduct that do not look well, and among them is
                                 the fact that she receives sums of money from a former lover, who
                                 is about uniting himself in marriage with the daughter of one of
                                 our most respectable citizens. I will not mention her name; but you
                                 will know her by this description. She is a fair-faced,
                                 light-haired girl, slender, a little above the medium dium height,
                                 and rather pretty. Her mother is a widow, who lost all her property
                                 by the failure of the United States Bank. Be warned against
                                 her.
                              
                                 A TRUE, BUT UNKNOWN FRIEND."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  For a short time after reading this, Mary sat immovable. Then starting up,
                     suddenly, she ran swiftly down stairs, with the open letter in her hand.
                     Surprised at this sudden movement, and wishing to regain possession of the
                     letter, Mrs. Barker followed the retreating girl, who, to her still greater
                     surprise, entered the parlor, where sat her daughter and Philip Emerson, and
                     advancing toward the latter, held the letter before his eyes, and said, in a
                     quick, imperative voice—
                  "Did you write that?"
                  "Who are you? What do you mean?" exclaimed Emerson, starting to his feet, and
                     contracting his brows angrily. He did not feign astonishment; he really felt
                     it.
                  "My name is Mary Lynn," was answered. "Do you know me now?"
                  "I never saw you nor heard of you before," said Emerson. "The girl is mad."
                  Mary crushed the letter in her hands as she clasped her temples; stood for a
                     moment, looking wildly upon the young man, and then, with a gesture of agony,
                     turned away, and without a word more, left the house.
                  "Who is she?" asked Emerson, his face red to the forehead. "What did she mean
                     by my writing a letter? I never saw her before."
                  "I presume not," replied Mrs. Barker, with considerable agitation in her
                     manner. "The girl, as you say, is mad!"
                  And without further remark, Mrs. Barker left the room.
                  As Mary Lynn retired from the house, she met at the door a young man, the son
                     of Mr. Barker, who, struck with her appearance, and the strange agitation of
                     her manner, stood looking after her as she went hurrying away.
                  "What does this mean?" he said, half aloud, as he turned, and entered the
                     house.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  "CURSE the girl! She will ruin every thing!" muttered Emerson, as he passed
                     along the street with rapid strides, soon after the unexpected encounter with
                     Mary. "I wish she were dead!"
                  "A fine affair I've made of it by following your advice!" said he, on meeting
                     the friend at whose suggestion he had written the letter of warning to Mrs.
                     Barker.
                  "What's the matter now?" was inquired. "Didn't it work well?"
                  "No."
                  
                  "What kind of letter did you write?"
                  "Here is a copy of it. See for yourself."
                  The friend glanced over the letter, and then said,
                  "No wonder. It bears on its very face the stamp of its authorship."
                  "How so?"
                  "Were you beside yourself when you spoke of her receiving money from a former
                     lover, who was about uniting himself with the daughter of a respectable
                     citizen? Could you not see, that if the letter came under her eye, she would at
                     once accuse you?"
                  "I must have been beside myself!" exclaimed Emerson, striking his hands
                     together. "Of all insinuations against her, that is the last I should have
                     made. But what do you think has been the result?"
                  "Well."
                  "In calling to see Caroline this morning, I met Mary on the door step. She had
                     come, it appears, according to agreement, to enter upon her duties as
                     governess. I did not know her, of course, but passed in, she following. Some
                     ten minutes afterwards, as I sat talking with Caroline, Mary suddenly burst
                     into the room, followed by Mrs. Barker. She had my open letter in her hand.
                     Holding it up before me, she demanded if I were the author!"
                  "What else could you have expected? But, go on."
                  "I called her a mad girl, and vowed that, until then, I had never seen
                     her."
                  "Were you believed?"
                  "Heaven knows."
                  "Did she repeat the charge?"
                  "No. She crumpled the letter in her hand, and then rushed from the house."
                  "Retaining possession of the letter?"
                  "Yes."
                  The friend shook his head, saying as he did so—
                  "You have every thing to fear."
                  "I know that I have."
                  "Hadn't you better see her and try to compromise the matter in some way?"
                  "No. That would be worse than useless. She is a girl with an iron spirit that
                     nothing can bend from its purpose."
                  "You must silence her in some way, or else give up your claim to the hand of
                     Caroline Barker. That letter, if shown to her father, with such explanations as
                     it is in Mary Lynn's power to give, will completely destroy you in his
                     estimation. He is a stern old fellow, and would see in this a want of principle
                     that would be fatal to your expectations."
                  "I know. But the first step has been so disastrous, that I am in no way
                     inclined to take the second. Mary is the most impracticable girl I ever met.
                     With Caroline Barker I can do almost any thing I please. But Mary Lynn is made
                     of other stuff altogether. I wish I had never known her."
                  "You are certainly unfortunate in the acquaintance," said the friend.
                  "Most unfortunate. Confound those pictures! I'm afraid they'll prove a dear
                     bargain in the end."
                  "The pictures you sold Harding?"
                  "Yes. I thought five hundred dollars for what cost twenty and a little business
                     subterfuge, a very fair transaction. But, from present appearances, it bids
                     fair to turn out most disastrously."
                  "It would hardly do, in the present aspect of your affairs, to miss an alliance
                     which promises so much as this one."
                  "No, my friend!" replied Emerson, and a cloud fell heavily over his face as he
                     spoke. "Something more than a broken heart would be, I fear, the
                     consequence."
                  "A broken fortune?"
                  "There is danger of this, as you know. That copper mine bubble in which I was
                     fool enough to risk so much, has, in bursting, swept from me such large sums of
                     money, that I find myself badly crippled. No later than yesterday the
                     Merchants' Bank turned down some of my paper; a thing never done before. I was
                     unprepared for this, and it left me, I can assure you, with my hands full to
                     meet payments for the day."
                  "That wasn't very pleasant."
                  "You may well say that. Particularly as I had to go on the street and raise
                     some three thousand dollars at one and-a-half percent a month."
                  "Indeed! Were you so hard pressed as that?"
                  "I was, and no mistake; and I shall be hard pressed until I become the
                     son-in-law of Mr. Barker. Then my credit will stand fair enough."
                  "I wish the wedding day were to-morrow," remarked the friend, who was on
                     Emerson's paper to a very large amount.
                  "You can't wish that more ardently than I do. But wishing is of no avail. I
                     must wait, in fear and trembling, the end of this business. Three months is a
                     long period where so much is at stake."
                  Enough touching the character and principles of Philip Emerson has been made
                     apparent to the mind of the reader, to satisfy him that Mary Lynn was right in
                     declining his offer of marriage. He was, in heart, a man so given over to
                     selfishness, that it was impossible for him to form an alliance with a
                     right-minded woman, without insuring her unhappiness. All that Mary had heard
                     touching his want of integrity, and a great deal more was true. And it was also
                     true, that he had, in a most heartless spirit, violated the dying injunction of
                     his mother in the matter of his helpless old nurse, who had been left to spend
                     her last days in the almshouse.
                  Mr. Barker was a man of the strictest-probity and the nicest sense of honor. When Emerson made advances
                     towards his daughter, he was far from being pleased; for, in one or two
                     business transactions which had taken place between him and the young man, he
                     saw a spirit that he did not like. Accordingly, he used every means in his
                     power to discourage his attentions, and tried to influence the mind of
                     Caroline. But the young lady was fascinated with the handsome exterior and
                     winning address of Emerson, and so all parental interference with the current
                     of her preferences proved of little avail. In the end, a formal application was
                     made for her hand. To this Mr. Barker did not hesitate to express his
                     disapprobation.
                  "You are far from being my choice as the husband of my daughter," said the
                     plain spoken father, "and I will not deceive you so much as to conceal this
                     fact. I do not believe that you will make her happy."
                  Emerson protested the sincerity of his affection, but Mr. Barker was not
                     deceived in the opinion he had formed, that the young man's love for his
                     daughter had another basis than a regard for personal excellencies. A long time
                     passed before Mr. Barker gave a final consent to the marriage. He delayed month
                     after month in the hope that some circumstance, fully developing what he
                     believed to be the real character of the young man, would transpire. But he
                     waited in vain, and, at last, with a reluctance that he did not take much pains
                     to conceal, yielded the long withheld approbation.
                  By this time, as has been intimated, the affairs of Emerson were considerably
                     embarrassed, owing to his having been drawn aside, in his lust of gain, into
                     certain stock speculation, by which he lost the greater part of all he had
                     made. He was, therefore, the more eager to consummate the alliance with Mr.
                     Barker's family, as that would reinstate his credit, now considerably
                     weakened.
                  All was going on as pleasantly as he could wish, when he was alarmed by the
                     unexpected appearance in the family of Mary Lynn, and most unwisely sought to
                     prevent her becoming a member thereof. In this, he completely overreached
                     himself, and made his position in every way more dangerous than it would have
                     been, had he not so wickedly sought to injure an innocent young girl, who had
                     too much virtue and decision of character to unite herself in holy marriage
                     with one whose principles she could not approve.
                  On the day after the occurrence of the briefly passing, yet exciting scene in
                     the parlor of Mr. Barker, that gentleman called to see Emerson. He looked
                     grave.
                  "You must excuse me, Philip," said he, "but I would like to ask you a few
                     questions about that strange affair of yesterday."
                  "What affair?" inquired Emerson. As he spoke, the color rose to his face.
                  "I understand that a young lady, whom my wife engaged as governess, charged
                     upon you the authorship of a letter, making against her disreputable
                     insinuations."
                  "True. She did."
                  "Do you know her?"
                  "Before Heaven, Mr. Barker, I do not!" was unhesitatingly answered. "No one
                     could have been more astonished than myself at the sudden and unexpected
                     charge. Surely the girl was not in her right mind."
                  A denial was so unequivocal as this, quieted, if it did not entirely dispel the
                     suspicions which had arisen in the mind of Mr. Barker. Yet, for all this, the
                     subject rested with a weight upon his feelings, and he was troubled about it,
                     in spite of all efforts to dismiss it from his thoughts.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  A WEEK went by without Mrs. Barker having heard any thing more of Mary Lynn,
                     and then two ladies called and spoke of her. They were acquaintances of Mrs.
                     Barker.
                  "Did not a young girl, named Mary Lynn, apply to you for the situation of
                     governess to your children?" asked one of them.
                  "I had such an application," was replied.
                  "You did not take her?"
                  "No. I was warned not to do so."
                  "By whom?"
                  "The warning came anonymously; but it was of a character that made it, on my
                     part, an act of prudence not to bring her into my house."
                  "If any one has made evil accusations against her, they are false," said the
                     lady who had first spoken.
                  "From a personal knowledge of Mary," added the other lady, "I can
                     unhesitatingly affirm the same thing. A purer minded, better girl I am sure
                     cannot be found; and, as the governess and friend of your children, you would
                     have in her a treasure. Strange, that any should seek to injure one in her
                     friendless and needy condition."
                  "I can conceive of no motive for such an act," said Mrs. Barker.
                  "Whatever the motive may have been, it was conceived in a spirit that stamps
                     its author as a debased wretch!"
                  "You speak in a positive manner," said Mrs. Barker.
                  "Why should we not?" answered one of the ladies. "We knew Mary well, in her
                     better days, and take some blame to ourselves for letting misfortune remove her
                     so entirely from our observation and circle of friendship."
                  "May she not have changed since her mother's misfortunes? Adversity is a severe
                     trial."
                  
                  "In her case, it has but consumed the dross and made finer the gold. You know
                     Mrs. May, the sister of Mary's father."
                  "By character."
                  "We have just seen her and had a long conversation with her on the subject, and
                     she says that a more cruel and malicious slander was never uttered, than that
                     by which some enemy in disguise has sought to injure her niece. Of Mary, she
                     speaks with a tenderness of feeling that is really touching to hear. A better,
                     truer-hearted, purer-minded girl, she affirms that she has never known."
                  "Who could have written that letter?" asked Mrs. Barker. "Does Mary suspect the
                     author?"
                  "She does."
                  "Has she named the person?"
                  "She declines doing this."
                  "Why so?"
                  "She might be mistaken, and will not therefore utter her suspicions, lest an
                     innocent person be injured."
                  "You believe," said Mrs. Barker, after reflecting for some moments, "that Mary
                     Lynn is worthy of confidence in every way, and that I can introduce her into my
                     family and among my children with perfect safety?"
                  "We do," was unhesitatingly replied.
                  One of the ladies added,
                  "Were I in want of a governess, most gladly would I take her, and think myself
                     highly favored in obtaining a person so worthy of all confidence, respect, and
                     esteem."
                  "You speak warmly," said Mrs. Barker, smiling.
                  "We do," was answered, "because we are so in earnest in the matter. Depend upon
                     it, you will never have cause to regret the entrance of Mary Lynn into your
                     family."
                  "I must take a little time for reflection," said Mrs. Barker. "This puts quite
                     a new face on the matter. As for Miss Lynn, I must own that I was very much
                     prepossessed in her favor. A number of applicants for the situation have since
                     presented themselves; but none pleased me. If all is right with Mary, no one
                     could suit me so well."
                  "All is right with her; of that you may rest fully assured," answered the
                     ladies.
                  "I will take until to-morrow to think over the matter," returned Mrs. Barker,
                     "and if I come to a favorable conclusion, will send for her."
                  When Mrs. Barker mentioned what she had heard to her husband, he reflected for
                     a short time, and then said—
                  "Let us take her. There is a mystery in this affair that I would like to see
                     cleared up. I can't get over the fact of her charging the authorship of that
                     letter upon Emerson."
                  "Why should he write it?" asked Mrs. Barker.
                  "Just the question, of all others, that I would like to have answered. He avers
                     before Heaven that he does not know her. If he does know her, and has a
                     personal interest in keeping her out of our family, he has lied, to say the
                     least of it; and that is enough for me. The man who can call Heaven to witness
                     that he speaks truth, while giving utterance to a lie, must have a very
                     depraved heart. But worse than this, the man who, to effect some personal end,
                     can stab the reputation of an innocent, friendless girl, is a wretch of the
                     basest kind. Yes, yes; by all means send for Miss Lynn. I am fully satisfied
                     with the endorsement of the ladies who have interested themselves in her
                     behalf. She may prove to our house a protecting angel. And I verily believe she
                     will."
                  Without further delay, a servant was sent to Mary Lynn with a note, asking her
                     to call immediately. Without hesitation, Mary obeyed the summons. She was very
                     pale, and looked as if from a recent bed of sickness, which might almost be
                     said to be true, for the shock occasioned by the unexpected reception she had
                     met at Mrs. Barker's, for a time completely prostrated her.
                  "Have you been ill?" asked Mrs. Barker, kindly, on receiving Mary.
                  Tears came into the young girl's eyes. She tried to make an audible reply, but
                     her lips quivered so that she could give no utterance to words.
                  "I believe I acted hastily, Mary, in the matter of that letter. I am now
                     convinced that it made false charges against you."
                  "Oh, ma'am!" exclaimed Mary, "it was a base and cruel slander."
                  "Of that I am now convinced," said Mrs. Barker. "But do you not know from
                     whence it originated?"
                  Mary's eyes sunk to the floor, and she remained silent.
                  "You charged, by implication," and Mrs. Barker looked steadily at the
                     countenance of Mary, "a young man named Philip Emerson, with the authorship.
                     Why was this?"
                  "I was half beside myself. I hardly knew what I was doing ma'am," returned
                     Mary.
                  "It was a serious matter to charge an act like that upon a young man who
                     solemnly avers that he does not know you."
                  "It was," answered Mary, now lifting her eyes to the face of Mrs. Barker, and
                     speaking more calmly. "But, as I said, just now, I scarcely knew what I was
                     doing. I was under a great and bewildering excitement. Try and forget that
                     painful scene, as I wish myself to forget it."
                  But Mrs. Barker was by no means satisfied with this, and tried to press the
                     subject farther. Mary, however, was altogether disinclined to answer her
                     questions, and the lady, seeing this, deemed it but right to forbear.
                  "I have sent for you," she then said,
                     "not only to express my entire conviction that you have been wronged, but to
                     show my sincerity in the matter, by again offering you the situation of
                     governess in my family. Are you still prepared to accept the place?"
                  "I did not expect this," returned Mary, exhibiting some emotion.
                  "No one has applied whom I like so well," said Mrs. Barker.
                  "I don't know," said Mary, with considerable hesitation in her manner, and
                     speaking partly to herself—"that I ought to come."
                  "Why not?" quickly inquired the lady.
                  It was some time before Mary spoke. She then said,
                  "Upon reflection, I am satisfied that I ought not to refuse your offer, which
                     will enable me to support my mother and keep my sister Agnes at school. In
                     accepting it, I will take a liberty which you may think altogether out of
                     place. If so, deny my request without hesitation. I would like one hundred
                     dollars advanced on my salary."
                  "You need the money very much?"
                  "For a special purpose I do. Oh, ma'am, you do not know what a weight the
                     possession of that sum would enable me to remove from my mind! Nothing but the
                     intolerable pain occasioned by the pressure, and the panting desire I have for
                     its removal, could tempt me to prefer so untimely a request. In fact, with the
                     weight I speak of resting upon me, I do not feel competent to the performance
                     of the duties I have just agreed to enter upon."
                  There was that in the manner of the young girl which Mrs. Barker could not
                     resist, and she promised, unhesitatingly to furnish the sum she required.
                  On the next day, Mary Lynn became an inmate of Mr. Barker's family. The
                     children placed under her care, seemed to love her from the first moment, and
                     to come under her gentle influence as by the power of an irresistible
                     attraction. There was about her a sphere of goodness that all felt. No one was
                     more drawn towards her than Mr. Barker, who, from recently occurring
                     circumstances, was led to observe her closely, and thus to perceive the
                     indications of her real character.
                  "Yes, it was a base attempt to injure an innocent girl," said he
                     to Mrs. Barker, a week after Mary had entered the family; "and I sincerely hope
                     that the wrong mediated may fall upon the head of the injurer. What could have
                     been the motive for such an act?"
                  "It is not improbable," replied Mrs. Barker, "that some one who desired the
                     situation, and who ascertained that Mary had procured it, took this method of
                     removing her out of her way. This has occurred to me as the most probable
                     explanation of the circumstance."
                  "I never thought of that," remarked Mr. Barker, and his tone of voice expressed
                     the relief of mind occasioned by the suggestion. "Yes—that may be the true
                     explanation. Still, I cannot cease to think of the fact that she accused
                     Emerson. Why should she have done this?"
                  "She says that she was so bewildered that she did not know what she was doing.
                     And I can readily believe that such might be the case. So unexpected and
                     serious a charge, would naturally shock and bewilder the mind."
                  "Very true. Well, I hope it is all so—that Emerson is in no way concerned in
                     the business."
                  "I do not think he is. Indeed, the more I reflect on the subject, the more
                     fully convinced am I that he is not," said Mrs. Barker. "I am afraid that your
                     prejudices against the young man are too strong."
                  "Perhaps they are. Still, I cannot help them. But your suggestion as to the
                     authorship of that letter, greatly relieves my mind. It is certainly the most
                     reasonable one."
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  SOME ten days had passed since the exciting scene with Mary Lynn in the house
                     of Mr. Barker, and Philip Emerson was beginning to breathe a little more
                     freely, when he was startled from his dream of safety by the following
                     note!
                  "SIR—Enclosed you have one hundred dollars, the sum transmitted by you to my
                     mother. I am enabled to return it through means of an advance on my salary as
                     governess in the family of Mr. Barker. I trust that you will not attempt to
                     repeat an act which, for one in your position, has no justification. MARY
                     LYNN."
                  This was the young man's first intimation that Mary had returned to Mr.
                     Barker's family. Nothing could have more astonished and alarmed him. That
                     evening he had intended to pass with Caroline; but he was too much disturbed to
                     venture into her presence. The hours were spent alone. How many disturbing
                     thoughts intruded themselves! How his heart trembled and sunk, as he saw, in
                     clear light, the difficulties that were before him. In attempting to get Mary
                     Lynn out of his way, by improper means, he had made the danger of her presence
                     in the family a hundred fold greater. That she believed him to be the author of the letter to Mrs. Barker, he did
                     not doubt; and with his knowledge of her character, he felt that there was
                     every thing to fear.
                  Various suggestions were made to the mind of Emerson, as he pondered over the
                     unpleasant relation in which he found himself placed to Mary. One of them was
                     to ask an interview, and attempt to convince her that he was not the author of
                     the letter which she had, by implication, accused him of writing. Another was,
                     to obtain an interview, and procure her silence by threats of consequences.
                     But, after due reflection on each of these points, he dismissed them from his
                     mind. He had positively asserted that he had no knowledge of Mary whatever, and
                     he saw that to attempt an interview, or to communicate with her in any way,
                     might come under the knowledge of Mr. Barker, or some member of his family, who
                     would immediately ask explanations of Mary; and then enough would transpire to
                     render his position extremely questionable in their eyes.
                  A still more disturbing thought came into the young man's mind as he dwelt on
                     the subject. Would Mrs. Barker have taken Mary into her family, after the
                     warning she had received, and after acting upon that warning, unless entirely
                     satisfied of the falsity of the allegations made against her? It was plain that
                     she would not. How, then, had Mary been able to satisfy her mind, except by
                     proving the authorship of the letter, and showing a sufficient reason why it
                     should have been written. This view of the case came fraught with no little
                     alarm, and greatly increased anxiety.
                  The longer the mind of Emerson dwelt upon it, the more likely did it seem to be
                     true. A state of feverish anxiety was the consequence. On the day after
                     receiving Mary's note, he found himself, as to money matters, in a very narrow
                     place. A succession of heavy payments had not only exhausted his own means, but
                     the means of his immediate business friends also, and, as the bank from which
                     he had been in the habit of receiving accommodations had a second and third
                     time thrown out his offerings, he found himself in an extremity that was really
                     alarming. After various sacrifices and extra exertions, however, he succeeded
                     in getting his paper out of bank, and then called upon the friend, heretofore
                     mentioned, whose name was Concord, for the purpose of consultation and advice
                     as to his best course of action.
                  "You must have money," said Concord. "Money at all risks. If you break down
                     before your marriage with Miss Barker, it is all over with you; but only keep
                     going until you are Barker's son-in-law, and you are safe. The marriage will
                     strengthen your credit immediately; and, if the worst looks like coming to the
                     worst, you can, in an extremity, put your hand into the old gentleman's pocket
                     a little earlier than a feeling of delicacy would prompt to such an act."
                  "But how am I to get money? Just answer me that question," said Emerson, in a
                     restless, eager manner.
                  "There is a way, that might be used as a temporary expedient," remarked
                     Concord, with some hesitation in his voice.
                  "Name it," was Emerson's prompt response.
                  "It is hardly legitimate. Still it is better than doing worse."
                  "Speak out plainly. I must have money; though I am not quite prepared to knock
                     a man down on the highway, or to rob the mail."
                  "The means to which I refer, might be used as an expedient," said Concord,
                     speaking low, and in an insinuating voice. "It would hardly do to pursue it to
                     a very great extent, as it is a little risky."
                  "Come to the point, if you please. Don't be afraid," was replied to this
                     firmly. "I am ready to hear almost any proposition."
                  "You know young Baldwin?"
                  "Book-keeper in the Trader's Bank?"
                  "The same."
                  "Yes. I know him."
                  "He rides a fast horse"
                  "I am aware of it."
                  "And owns him into the bargain."
                  "Well?"
                  "Always has a pocket full of money, and always is ready to spend it
                     freely."
                  "I know."
                  "He spends more than his salary."
                  "So I should think."
                  "Where do you suppose it comes from?" asked Concord.
                  "I don't know. From the bank, in all probability."
                  "No doubt of it. Indeed, I know this to be the fact."
                  "Ah?"
                  "Yes. And his mode of removing the deposits is peculiar to himself, and quite
                     ingenious. But he must have some one on the outside to act in concert with
                     him."
                  Emerson made no remark to this, but bent closer to his friend, who lowered his
                     voice and continued—
                  "The mode of operation is this: As he keeps the deposit ledger, the checks paid
                     out by the teller are passed over to him to post and cancel. It is, as you will
                     see, the easiest thing in the world for him to put a check into his pocket
                     before cancelling it, and hand it to some friend to draw the money upon it a
                     second time. The person who draws the money is, of course, free from all
                     suspicion, and Baldwin protects himself by a system of double charges and
                     credits, which may not be found out
                     for years. The settling up of the customers' bank books being a part of his
                     work, no one sees the discrepancy between some of the entries therein and his
                     ledger accounts. The balances being the same, no suspicion is awakened. Among
                     some hundred bank accounts, this system may be pursued to a considerable extent
                     and with comparative safety."
                  To all this Emerson listened with great eagerness, and then opposed various
                     objections as to the alleged safety of the operation. These were all explained
                     away.
                  "How did you become so intimately acquainted with this matter?" he then
                     asked.
                  "I have known Baldwin for many years. As you are aware, I am a little gay
                     myself; like a fast horse, and see a good deal of pleasure. This has thrown the
                     young man and myself a good deal into each other's company, and, as he was a
                     fine, generous fellow, I liked the association. On a certain occasion, I found
                     myself pretty hard pressed for money, and being with him about the time, I
                     said, half jestingly—
                  "'I wish I knew how to get my hands on some of the cash locked up in the vaults
                     of your bank.'
                  "'Do you?" replied he, smiling.
                  "'Indeed I do,' was my feeling response.
                  "'Are you tight up?' he asked, after a time.
                  "'I am,' I did not hesitate to answer, for I was somewhat encouraged by the way
                     he spoke.
                  "'How much do you want?' he then inquired.
                  "'I want a thousand dollars to-morrow,' was my reply.
                  "Without hesitation, he drew forth his pocket-book, and taking therefrom three
                     checks each for the sum of five hundred dollars, handed them to me, saying as
                     he did so—
                  "'Draw these when the bank opens in the morning. A thousand you may use. The
                     balance you can give me after bank hours, when I will see you.'
                  "I looked at the checks, and found that they were drawn by three of our best
                     merchants on the Trader's Bank. A suspicion that all was not right flashed
                     through my mind, and he saw it. My first impression was that they were
                     forgeries.
                  "'What is the meaning of this?' I asked. 'Are these checks good?'
                  "'As good as gold,' he promptly answered.
                  "'But how came they in your possession?'
                  "'Draw the money,' said he, smiling, 'and use as much as you want of it. When I
                     call to see you to-morrow, I will explain all to your satisfaction. You needn't
                     be afraid. They are genuine checks, and will be paid on presentation.'
                  "Thus assured over and over again, I received the checks, and on the day
                     following they were cashed. 'There's some roguery about this, Baldwin,' said I,
                     when he called after bank hours, 'and you must explain it.' He made the
                     explanation of which you are already in possession. Now, if you desire to be
                     put en rapport with this young gentleman,
                     just say the word, and it shall be done. You'll find him nothing loath to a
                     good operation."
                  "I'm afraid," said Emerson, after reflecting on the subject. "The whole thing
                     involves a crime, and, if it came to light, might send me to prison."
                  "So would some of your custom house operations," remarked Concord.
                  Emerson shrugged his shoulders.
                  "In them, perjury is involved. Here the transaction is far more simple."
                  "I don't mind cheating the Government, if I can," said Emerson. "That is fair
                     game. But using another man's check is an individual affair, and comes too near
                     home."
                  "The operation doesn't touch any one's private account," said Concord. "The
                     bank bears all the loss; and I'm sure that I would have no more compunctions
                     about cheating a bank than I would about cheating Uncle Sam. As for the
                     Trader's Bank, that is rich enough, and would never feel the loss of a few
                     thousands."
                  "I'm afraid it isn't safe," remarked Emerson.
                  "Nothing could be safer," replied the tempter. "All you have to do is to
                     present a good check and draw the money. Baldwin will manage all the rest. Even
                     if he should be suspected and found out, you will not be involved in the
                     matter. It will be to his interest to conceal your agency."
                  "Why so?"
                  "Because the bulk of the money drawn out will be in your possession. If you are
                     implicated, you will have to refund. If not, he will have something to fall
                     back upon, after losing his situation in the bank. Don't you see?"
                  "Yes. He will have an interest in concealing the name of the party concerned
                     with him in the transaction. But why don't you continue to act with him?"
                  "Because, having been helped through a tight place, I can get on without
                     further resort to a means of raising money that is only to be used in desperate
                     cases. Yours is a desperate case, and, therefore, I suggest the thing to you.
                     My word for it, you will go safely over your difficulties by this means."
                  "I'll turn it over in my mind," said Emerson. "I don't like the look of it at
                     all. Still, any thing is better than breaking down just now."
                  "Of course it is. See Baldwin, and ask him to lend you a few thousand dollars.
                     The amount will be sure to come. Better give him notice a day or two before you want the money. You needn't know,
                     unless you choose to ask him, how the checks you receive come into his
                     hands."
                  "True. That didn't occur to me." The countenance of Emerson brightened. "It's
                     none of my business how he gets the money. I only borrow it from him. If he
                     steals it, that is his own look-out."
                  "Certainly it is."
                  "Thank you for suggesting this means of raising money," said Emerson. "If I can
                     do no better—and I see no way now—I must adopt it."
                  The friends parted, and Emerson pondered the subject of their conversation over
                     and over in his mind for a long time, and he finally decided to have an
                     interview with young Baldwin. His thoughts then turned towards Caroline Barker,
                     and the dangers that beset his way in that quarter.
                  "I must see her to night," was the conclusion of his mind. "Suspense like this
                     cannot be borne."
                  So he called that evening at the house of Mr. Barker. On first meeting with
                     Caroline, there was a reserve in her manner that oppressed the feelings of
                     Emerson. This gradually wore off, however, and she seemed to him as of old. But
                     he saw no other member of the family. On going away, he did not feel much more
                     at ease than before.
                  On the next day he was thrown, for a short time, in company with two or three
                     gentlemen, among whom was Mr. Barker. The conversation turned upon certain
                     unfair transactions which had just come to light.
                  "For my part," said Mr. Barker, remarking on the subject, and speaking with
                     considerable warmth, "I would rather suffer the rack than be guilty of such
                     roguery. I call things by their right names. Any man who will cheat the
                     Government, will rob if he gets the opportunity. He would knock a man down on
                     the highway for his pocket-book, if he had the nerve to do so."
                  "Just my way of thinking," was the prompt remark of Emerson.
                  Mr. Barker glanced at the young man approvingly, and the latter, encouraged
                     thereat, said—
                  "How a man can obtain his own consent to engage in fraudulent dealing, is more
                     than I can comprehend. The gain, surely, cannot compensate for want of
                     self-respect, and the danger of exposure and prosecution."
                  "Fair dealing is the only wise dealing," added Mr. Barker. "It brings all out
                     right in the end; while few who begin by over-reaching their neighbors, ever
                     attain ultimate success in business. The devil is a false-hearted wretch, and
                     usually betrays those who trust in him."
                  In less than an hour after this, Emerson despatched a note to Baldwin, asking
                     him to call at his store after the bank closed. The young man came as
                     desired.
                  "I had some conversation with Mr. Concord to-day," Emerson thus introduced the
                     subject he wished to talk about, "and I learned from him that you sometimes had
                     money to lend." Baldwin, from the mention of Concord's name, understood him
                     fully. His reply was—"How much do you want?"
                  "A few thousand dollars."
                  "Now?" inquired the young man.
                  "Not all of it at once. I want some ten or fifteen thousand dollars during the
                     coming three months."
                  Baldwin shook his head, saying, as he did so,
                  "That is entirely beyond my ability. I could raise you a thousand dollars, in a
                     week or ten days, perhaps, if that would be of any use."
                  "Not much," replied Emerson, in a tone of disappointment.
                  Both parties now became a good deal embarrassed. The manner of Emerson changed,
                     and Baldwin, not comprehending exactly the nature of the change, felt somewhat
                     alarmed.
                  "I will see you again tomorrow," said he, and he retired in some trepidation,
                     going immediately to the store of Concord.
                  "Did you tell Mr. Emerson that I had money to lend?" he asked.
                  "I did," was replied.
                  "What kind of a man is he?" inquired Baldwin
                  "One after your own heart," was promptly answered.
                  The countenance of Baldwin grew brighter.
                  "Are you certain?"
                  "Oh yes. He cheats the Custom-House every month," said Concord.
                  A slight flush of shame mantled the young man's cheek at this not very
                     flattering compliment to himself. But he recovered quickly, remarking at the
                     same time,
                  "All right then?"
                  "Entirely so. If you can get him any money, pray accommodate him. He's a clever
                     fellow, but extremely hard run just now. He was in the copper speculation."
                  "Was he? No wonder he is in a tight place now."
                  "None in the least."
                  "He wants some ten or fifteen thousand dollars," said Baldwin.
                  "You can get it for him."
                  "I suppose I can. But that will be operating rather heavily."
                  "True. But it will be something handsome to fall back upon one of these
                     days."
                  "Can I trust him?" asked Baldwin.
                  "Implicitly. He is the very soul of honor."
                  This endorsement of Emerson's character was sufficient for Baldwin. On the next day he brought him
                     checks for the sum of sixteen hundred dollars. They were drawn by various
                     merchants on the Traders' Bank; and one of them was a check of Mr. Barker's.
                     The sight of this last check did not produce very pleasant sensations in the
                     mind of Emerson.
                  "Don't send all these checks in at once," said Baldwin.
                  "Oh, no, I understand," replied Emerson.
                  "Twelve hundred dollars of the amount is at your service."
                  "Thank you! That sum, will enable me to go through to-morrow quite comfortably.
                     How will you be off on next Monday? That will be a heavy day with me."
                  "I reckon I can help you some. How much will you want?"
                  "At least two thousand dollars."
                  "So much?"
                  "Yes; unless I find collections far better than they have been."
                  "I'll see what I can do, at any rate," replied Baldwin. "But don't depend on me
                     for so large a sum."
                  "I guess you can raise it," said Emerson, in a coaxing tone, and with a smile
                     meant to flatter the young man.
                  "We'll see," was returned, in a voice that assured Emerson that the money he
                     wanted would be forthcoming.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  THE position in which Mary Lynn found herself, was an exceedingly trying one;
                     trying to her personally, as well as to her principles of action. The letter of
                     accusation against her which Mrs. Barker had received, remained in her
                     possession. As to its authorship, she was in some doubt. That Emerson had
                     something to do with it—had, in fact, written it in a disguised hand, or
                     procured it to be written—she felt almost certain. But she did not know this,
                     and, therefore, did not feel that it would be right to predicate action
                     thereon.
                  A very brief intercourse with Mr. Barker's family, served to attach her
                     strongly to every member thereof; particularly was this so in the case of
                     Caroline, whose goodness of heart and correctness of principle manifested
                     themselves to her more and more daily. The feeling between Mary and the family
                     was reciprocal. Like attracts like by the law of spiritual elective affinities.
                     So it was in the present case.
                  William, the oldest son of Mr. Barker, who had been so struck with the
                     appearance of Mary, as she left the house on an occasion previously referred
                     to, was not the least favorably affected by the sphere of virtue that
                     surrounded the lovely girl. Every time he met her, he felt drawn towards her
                     more and more; and saw in her new phases of beauty. Frequently he spoke of her
                     to his sister, and, in such terms of praise, that Caroline at length began to
                     jest pleasantly with him about losing his heart to the fair governess. This
                     threw the young man's thoughts back upon themselves, and he felt rather serious
                     on finding that he was more interested in the young girl than was agreeable,
                     considering the different relations each held to society. So, with a deliberate
                     purpose, he sought to turn himself from her. This, however, did not prove so
                     easy of accomplishment. The more he tried to turn himself away, the more
                     instinctively did his thoughts and feelings turn towards her. And, even while
                     he was resolving not to think or care for her, he thought and cared for her the
                     more.
                  We said that the position in which Mary Lynn found herself, was a trying one.
                     It was so in regard to Emerson's relation to the family. She had rejected his
                     offer of marriage, because she was satisfied of his want of right feeling and
                     honest and honorable principles. Such a thing as a real union with a man like
                     him, she believed to be impossible; and she could not conceive how Caroline
                     Barker, in a marriage with him, was to escape 
                        unhapiness
                        unhappiness
                     . There was the less hope of this, if, as Mary, with too good reason
                     feared, Emerson had sought, by the most unjustifiable means, to keep her out of
                     the family. The fact of his having denied to her face any knowledge of her, was
                     bad enough; but as this was not to be reconciled in her mind with any other
                     fact than his authorship of the letter, she was forced to the unwilling
                     conclusion, that he was far more depraved in heart, than she had, heretofore,
                     believed him. The worst feature to her mind, in that letter, was its allusion
                     to the money sent to her by himself; or, rather sent to her mother, and falsely
                     made to appear as if sent to herself.
                  Day and night Mary thought of all this, and shuddered inwardly, as the time
                     approached when Caroline was to pledge her bridal vows. The closer her
                     intercourse became with Caroline, and the better she knew her, the more was she
                     troubled as her thoughts went on to the future. Hers was a pure and true heart;
                     and for it to be happy in a union with such a man as was Philip Emerson, in her
                     estimation, she felt to be impossible. But could she step forward to throw a
                     barrier in the way of that union? Was it her duty? Once she had stood in the
                     way of Emerson's attainment of his wishes; should she do so again? If she had
                     been absolutely certain that he was the author of the letter sent to Mrs.
                     Barker, there would have been little hesitation as to what she should do. But
                     many doubts on this subject harassed and confused her mind, and made her really unhappy. That she was ill at
                     ease, the family saw; and not unfrequently did Caroline, in particular,
                     question her as to the cause.
                  In her mother, Mary had no counsellor. The mind of the latter was completely
                     darkened by false views of life, and by the mists of selfish feelings. To her
                     Aunt Edith, she opened her heart fully; but, from the point of view occupied by
                     Mrs. May, she was not able to see clearly what it was best for her niece to do.
                     To step in and seek to prevent a marriage to which both parties were solemnly
                     pledged, was too serious an affair to be determined hastily.
                  "If I only knew that Philip Emerson wrote, or even caused to be written, that
                     letter," said Mary, while in conversation with her aunt a few weeks before the
                     wedding of Caroline was to take place. "I would know how to act. My simple duty
                     would then be, to inform Mrs. Barker, and let her make what further
                     investigations she pleased. But I cannot be certain of this. I have no
                     proof."
                  "You accused him of having written the letter; and did so before Mrs. Barker?"
                     remarked Mrs. May.
                  "Yes."
                  "That ought to be sufficient to raise a doubt in the minds of the family, and
                     to cause them to look and inquire farther."
                  "But you know, aunt," replied Mary, "I told Mrs. Barker that when I said this,
                     I was half beside myself, and hardly knew what I was doing."
                  "That was calculated to mislead her."
                  "I spoke but the truth. I was utterly bewildered. But she took my meaning in a
                     fuller sense than I intended. Oh, Aunt Edith! I wish I knew what it was right
                     for me to do. Caroline is a good girl, and will never be happy as the wife of
                     Emerson. Knowing this, and with the power in my hands of preventing, in all
                     probability, the marriage, what ought I to do? I wish you would advise me."
                  But Mrs. May was not prepared to advise her niece to any course of action.
                  "Wait longer," said she. "Something may occur to make your duty plain."
                  "It will soon be too late, aunt. A few weeks, and all interference will be
                     vain. Ah! to see her unhappy, and to know that I might have prevented it by a
                     timely warning, will almost break my heart. What a poor return will this be for
                     all the kindness I have received, and am daily receiving, from every member of
                     Mr. Barker's family."
                  "All do not see and feel alike, Mary," said her aunt to this. "Although
                     Caroline may possess excellent qualities of heart, she has not your
                     determination. She does not perceive ceive, with the intuitive quickness that
                     marked your intercourse with Emerson, his true character; and she may not
                     perceive it after marriage. If he is really attached to her, the beauty of
                     goodness as it shines forth in her daily life, may win him from selfish
                     purposes. This marriage may be permitted, providentially, as a means of
                     withdrawing him from evil. It may be the only way of saving him from the
                     dominion of cruel and selfish passions; or of elevating her, through
                     disappointment and suffering, into a higher state than she would have otherwise
                     obtained. The ways of God are not as man's ways. We are short-sighted; but He
                     is all-seeing. Our lives here are but the preparatory states for a better life,
                     and whatever will tend to develope and strengthen true spiritual life within
                     us, is permitted to take place by Providence."
                  Mary saw enough in this argument to prevent her from interfering to hinder the
                     marriage of Emerson and Miss Barker, but not enough to satisfy her that she was
                     right in so doing. Hourly the subject was in her mind, and deeply was her heart
                     troubled. So much was she affected thereby, that her appearance caused much
                     concern in the family of Mr. Barker, and frequent earnest inquiries as to the
                     cause of her evident disquietude of mind. To these inquiries, evasive answers
                     were always given, which were often made the subject of conversation between
                     Mr. and Mrs. Barker; the former frequently coming back to the suggestion that
                     Mary knew more of Emerson than she was willing to admit. This idea, however,
                     Mrs. Barker always opposed.
                  Meanwhile, Mary's intercourse with her mother did not assume a more pleasant
                     character. The money she had obtained in advance from Mrs. Barker she had sent
                     to Mr. Emerson, warning him, in a brief note, that he well understood, not to
                     repeat the act. Of this she had felt it her duty to advise her mother, that she
                     might understand, in the beginning, that no aid would come from her for six
                     months, and that she must, therefore, husband the money in her hands, which was
                     now merely an advance on Mary's salary. At this information, Mrs. Lynn was
                     greatly outraged, and poor Mary had to bear an outburst of passionate
                     upbraidings, that, while borne meekly, grieved her to the heart.
                  Of the fact of Emerson's intimacy in the family, and of his approaching
                     marriage with Caroline, Mary wisely said nothing to her mother. That
                     intelligence, come when it would, was destined, she knew, to subject her to
                     remarks of a painful character.
                  One evening, about two weeks before the appointed wedding-day of Caroline
                        Barker ker, Mary was spending an
                     hour at home. William, her brother, remarked to her, in the hearing of their
                     mother—
                  "Some one said, in our store to-day, that Miss Barker was to be married to Mr.
                     Emerson week after next. Is it so?"
                  "What's that?" inquired Mrs. Lynn, before Mary had time to answer.
                  "I heard that Miss Caroline Barker was to be married to Mr. Emerson in a week
                     or two," repeated William.
                  "Nonsense!" said Mrs. Lynn, quickly—"There isn't a word of truth in it."
                  She hadn't given up the idea that Emerson would yet lead her daughter to the
                     altar.
                  "How is it, Mary? You must know," said William, referring to his sister.
                  "It is true," was her simple response; and as she spoke, she turned her face
                     partly away.
                  "What!" exclaimed Mrs. Lynn.
                  "It is true," repeated Mary.
                  "I do not believe it!" said Mrs. Lynn, exhibiting at once a great deal of
                     feeling.
                  To this Mary felt no inclination to reply. In the next moment, her mother,
                     assuming the fact just denied, took occasion to upbraid her for having madly,
                     as she said, refused to save herself and family from beggary, by accepting the
                     offer of an alliance in every way so desirable.
                  "Are you any better than Caroline Barker?" was the harsh interrogation of this
                     unfeeling, selfish woman.
                  "No, mother," replied Mary, in a mild voice.
                  "She doesn't think herself too good to marry Mr. Emerson."
                  "But I do," said Mary, firmly. "A great deal too good. And if Caroline doesn't
                     repent of her act before a year, I am greatly mistaken. She doesn't know him as
                     I do."
                  "You'd better enlighten her a little," sneeringly retorted Mrs. Lynn.
                  Mary did not venture a reply to this, nor to any thing her mother said farther
                     on the subject; and, as quickly as she could, sought to change the theme of
                     conversation. Her visits were, from this time, made so unpleasant, by her
                     mother's constant reference to the approaching marriage of Miss Barker, that
                     she came home less frequently, and staid only for a short time.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  DURING all this period, Emerson, although he called to see Caroline three or
                     four times every week, did not obtain a glimpse of Mary, nor did any one
                     mention her name in his hearing. In fact the only evidence he had of her
                     presence in the family, was the letter received from her, enclosing a hundred
                     dollars. All dread of interference terference on her part was nearly removed
                     from his mind, when, one evening, about a week before the wedding-day, as he
                     sat in the parlor alone, awaiting the appearance of Caroline, he was startled
                     by her entrance. She came in with a slow, noiseless step, her face thinner and
                     paler than he had ever seen it, and her eyes fixed intently upon him.
                  "Philip," said she, in a firm voice, yet speaking only a little above a
                     whisper. "I wish to ask you one question."
                  "For Heaven's sake, Mary!" exclaimed the young man, evincing great alarm, and
                     lifting both hands deprecatingly as he spoke—"go away! Go quickly! or you will
                     ruin me."
                  "I wish to ask you one question," repeated the immoveable girl, approaching
                     still nearer. "Did you write that letter to Mrs. Barker?"
                  "What letter? No!" he replied.
                  "The letter warning her not to receive me into her family; and alluding to the
                     money you sent my mother as if sent to me?"
                  "Mad girl! Do you wish to destroy me?" exclaimed Emerson, in much distress and
                     perplexity. "What right have you to interrogate me in this way? Go! Go!" And he
                     waved his hand imperatively.
                  "I shall not go until I am satisfied on the subject of my inquiry," replied
                     Mary, in a voice so calm and resolute, that Emerson saw no hope but in trying
                     to convince her that he was innocent.
                  "I have told you that I did not write the letter," said he. "What more can I
                     do?"
                  "Why did you send my mother a hundred dollars at the very moment of my
                     application for the situation of governess here?"
                  "That application first made known to me the extremity of your family. My
                     letter fully explained my motive."
                  "How is it, that, immediately after this sum is sent, I am charged, in a letter
                     to Mrs. Barker, with receiving money from a young man who was about marrying in
                     a wealthy and respectable family? I want that explained, Philip Emerson! The
                     two facts hang too nearly together. I cannot but regard you as the author of
                     that base letter to Mrs. Barker, reason the subject as I will."
                  "I tell you that I did not write it, Mary," said the young man, with a show of
                     indignation. "Is not that enough? Now leave me!"
                  A noise of footsteps was heard along the passage at this moment.
                  "Go! Go!" exclaimed the distressed Emerson, in a husky whisper.
                  For a moment or two Mary paused, and then glided from the room. Caroline Barker
                     entered through another door as she vanished from the sight of the agitated
                     young man.
                  
                  "Who was that?" asked Caroline, in an indifferent tone.
                  "One of your servants," replied Emerson, turning his face partly away as he
                     spoke.
                  "Oh! I imagined, as I caught a glimpse of her dress, that it was Mary
                     Lynn."
                  "Mary Lynn? Who is she?"
                  "Don't you know? Our governess."
                  "Not the mad girl who charged me with writing some letter about her?"
                  "Yes; the same."
                  "Is it possible? I thought, of course, that she was in an insane asylum?"
                  "Very far from it. I wish all the world were as sane and as good as she is.
                     Some enemy tried to prejudice mother against her in an anonymous letter, and,
                     in the distress occasioned thereby, she wildly charged you with having written
                     it."
                  "Wildly enough! I had never seen nor heard of the girl. She acknowledged, I
                     believe, that she didn't know what she was doing at the time?"
                  "Oh, yes, but it was a false and cruel thing thus to seek to injure one so
                     innocent and so friendless. None but a wicked and depraved wretch could have
                     been guilty of such an act."
                  "I can well believe that." And Emerson again averted his face as he spoke.
                  "But what could have been the motive?" said Caroline. "That has always puzzled
                     me."
                  "What is her own view of the matter?" asked the young man, concealing the
                     interest he felt in the answer.
                  "I do not know. She never alluded to the subject."
                  "Have you never spoken to her about it?"
                  "Yes; but she evades all direct answers."
                  "Who is she?" asked Emerson.
                  "You remember the late Justin Lynn?"
                  "Very well. She is not his daughter?"
                  "Yes."
                  "I was not aware of that. Why, I thought Mr. Lynn left a very handsome property
                     at his death?"
                  "So he did. But it was all lost in the failure of the United States Bank."
                  "How unfortunate! And now his poor daughter is compelled to support herself by
                     acting as governess in your family. Really, hers is a sad case!"
                  "Indeed it is. And we sympathize with her very much."
                  "She cannot be very happy," said Emerson.
                  "She is far more cheerful than I could ever be under such circumstances. Still,
                     something evidently preys upon her mind. Mother thinks that it is the
                     letter."
                  "Why should that prey upon her mind? No one in the family regards it in any
                     other light than as a slander."
                  "I know. Still, there is a mystery about it that is unexplained. I must have a
                     more earnest conversation with her on the subject, and try if I cannot see a
                     little deeper into her thoughts."
                  This declaration, coupled with the fact, that Mary had, only a few moments
                     before, demanded of him explanations on the same subject, produced a state of
                     greater anxiety than that from which he was already suffering. He replied, with
                     affected commisseration for Mary,
                  "If the subject is so unpleasant to the poor girl, I don't think I would press
                     it upon her."
                  Caroline made no answer to this, when Emerson changed the theme of
                     conversation. He did not remain long on this occasion, for he was momentarily
                     in fear of seeing Mary re-enter the parlor to interrogate him still further
                     about the unwisely sent letter.
                  The new system of money-raising adopted by Emerson worked to a charm. He was no
                     longer forced upon the street to borrow at one and two per cent. a month in
                     order to meet his payments. All he found necessary was to give Baldwin two or
                     three days' notice, and, in due time, checks for a few hundred dollars above
                     the amount desired were sure to come. The excess was paid to the dashing,
                     fast-living young man, and the remainder passed to his loan account, to be
                     returned at some period as yet but dimly seen in the future. It was by this
                     loan-feature of the case that Emerson quieted his conscience; and by which he
                     expected to clear himself from all blame, if Baldwin's dishonest transactions
                     should ever see the light; a circumstance which he flattered himself was not
                     soon likely to occur, as the swindling transaction was a very ingenious one,
                     and managed with consummate skill.
                  Already had Emerson received from the young bank officer over twenty thousand
                     dollars, and the drain was still going on. Baldwin was living faster and
                     freer—so much so that the eyes of many were looking upon him with suspicion,
                     and Emerson occasionally heard, from one and another, remarks that produced in
                     his own mind no very pleasant reflections. Two or three days before the time at
                     which the marriage was to take place, Mr. Barker said to him,
                  "Do you know this young Baldwin, who is a book-keeper in the Traders'
                     Bank?"
                  "I have met him occasionally," replied Emerson, the color deepening in his face
                     at this unexpected question, asked, as he conceived, in a meaning tone, and
                     with a purpose.
                  Mr. Barker saw the change in the young man's countenance and wondered,
                     momentarily, as to its meaning.
                  "He lives fast," said he, "for a young man with a salary of only twelve hundred
                     dollars."
                  "He may have something beyond yond his
                     salary," suggested Emerson.
                  "I doubt that," was replied. "I knew his father very well. He was a poor man,
                     and had nothing to give his son."
                  "Is he a married man?" asked Emerson, affecting ignorance.
                  "Yes; and his wife looks like a jeweller's walking advertisement. There's
                     something wrong, you may depend on it. Baldwin is living at the rate of at
                     least two or three thousand dollars a year. I wonder that the directors of the
                     bank retain him in the institution."
                  "If the business of his desk is faithfully done they can have no fault to find
                     with him?" said Emerson.
                  "No," was replied; "not unless he puts his hand in the money-drawer."
                  "Surely, Mr. Barker!" exclaimed Emerson, with well affected surprise, "you
                     don't suspect any thing of that kind?"
                  "A man must get money before he can spend it," said Mr. Barker. "Now where does
                     this young man get two or three thousand dollars a year to squander at the rate
                     he is squandering money?"
                  "He may go in debt," suggested Emerson.
                  Mr. Barker shook his head with an incredulous air.
                  Emerson remained silent, perplexed in thought, and doubtful whether to say any
                     thing further, or change the subject of discourse. Many unpleasant suggestions
                     flitted through his mind. Could it be possible that Mr. Barker had a suspicion
                     of the real truth, and that a motive governed him in asking these
                     questions?
                  "The fact is," said Mr. Barker, as if coming to a sudden resolution, "I will
                     give one of the directors, who is a personal and intimate friend, the benefit
                     of my suspicions. He can act afterwards as he sees best. Something is
                     undoubtedly wrong, and the quicker it is set right the better."
                  "There's trouble ahead!" was the anxiously uttered ejaculation of Emerson, as
                     soon as he was alone. "What can be in the man's mind? Baldwin does dash too
                     much. I've told him so a good many times. But he's insane on this subject; and
                     doesn't seem to imagine that he attracts invidious attention."
                  While these thoughts were passing through his mind, he received the following
                     note from Baldwin:
                  "MY DEAR SIR:—Enclosed are four checks for the sum of two thousand dollars.
                     Turn them into money during the day if you please. I will call after the bank
                     closes for a thousand. The balance you can, no doubt, use to good advantage.
                     B."
                  "This has gone far enough," thus spoke Emerson to himself, as he replaced the
                     checks in the envelope from which he had removed them, and put the whole,
                     including Baldwin's note, under seal. "Suspicion will soon be aroused against
                     him, and then the hunting down will prove quick work. How far am I safe? That
                     is the all important question! Are any of his letters to me yet
                     undestroyed?"
                  Emerson commenced a hurried search in pigeon holes, and among files of
                     letters.—Two notes from Baldwin were discovered and promptly destroyed.
                  "No evidence among my papers can be found," said he, after finishing this work.
                     "The credits in my ledger are for money loaned. It is no business of mine where
                     he got the money from."
                  Still Emerson was far from feeling at ease in his mind—very far. His
                     intercourse with Baldwin had shown him some things in his character that a good
                     deal marred his confidence. He was by no means certain that the young man would
                     not, in case his peculations were discovered, refer to him as his accomplice.
                     Anxiously did he await his promised appearance after the closing of the
                     bank.
                  "Did you draw those checks?" was the smiling and rather eager inquiry of
                     Baldwin, on calling in to see Emerson about four o'clock.
                  "No," was the gravely uttered answer.
                  "Why not? I'm sorry," returned Baldwin, looking disappointed. "I wanted a
                     thousand dollars particularly this afternoon. Indeed, I must have that
                     sum."
                  "For what purpose?" asked Emerson.
                  "To buy a horse."
                  "A horse!"
                  "Yes. The most splendid trotter you ever saw. I rode out behind him, yesterday,
                     and he went past every thing on the road. His price is a thousand dollars; but
                     I have made up my mind to own him. In fact, have bought him, and am to pay down
                     the cash by five o'clock, to-day."
                  "You mustn't do it," said Emerson, in a firm voice, and with an expression of
                     face that rather sobered the feelings of young Baldwin.
                  "Why not?" asked the latter.
                  "Only that act of folly is needed to complete your ruin," said Emerson.
                  "What do you mean?" Baldwin looked frightened.
                  "This dashing folly, against which I have so often warned you, has awakened
                     suspicion."
                  "How do you know?"
                  "I have heard it from various quarters. To-day Mr. Barker referred to it, and
                     did not hesitate to give it as his opinion, that the money you spent so freely
                     came out of the bank."
                  "He did?"
                  "It is too true—but how can you wonder that such is the case? I do not.
                     Moreover—and this is the worst of it—he said he should call the attention of one of your directors to the fact this
                     very day, and suggest an inspection of your accounts."
                  "Let them inspect!" exclaimed Baldwin, with assumed indifference. Yet, even
                     while he spoke, his cheeks blanched. "Confound the meddlesome old rascal!" he
                     added, with much bitterness. "I wonder what business he has to trouble himself
                     with my affairs. Let him mind his own."
                  "Suppose they examine your books," said Emerson. "What will be the result?"
                  "That will depend entirely upon how they examine them. If cursorily, they'll
                     find nothing unless by accident. And even a careful examination will reveal
                     nothing, unless they happen to discover the trick."
                  "If you had only been prudent in your way of living," said Emerson, "suspicion
                     might have been entirely avoided. In a few years you could have resigned your
                     clerkship, and lived at ease for the remainder of your life. Suppose the thing
                     is found out now. What will be the consequence?"
                  "Dear knows! But I won't think of that. I don't believe it will be found
                     out."
                  "My fears lead me to a different conclusion. I anticipate the worst; and with
                     good reason."
                  "You need be under no apprehension. You are safe," said Baldwin.
                  "I'm not so certain of that!" sighed Emerson.
                  "You certainly are. No one will suspect you in the matter."
                  "I don't know."
                  "I do, then. The secret is yours and mine; and there are too many weighty
                     reasons why I should not betray you. The first and strongest is, that you are
                     stake-holder. In case of difficulty, I can fall back upon the funds in your
                     hands; and money is all potent, you know."
                  Even while Baldwin talked in this way, his cheek was pale and his lips
                     quivered. He knew the character of Barker very well, and did not at all like
                     his interference in the matter. The approach of danger, too, had opened his
                     eyes; and he now saw, with a clearness that startled him, the madness of the
                     course he had been pursuing. That he had escaped suspicion so long, was a cause
                     of wonder.
                  "You had better take these checks and cancel them," said Emerson, returning the
                     last note he had received from the young man. "In case the worst comes to the
                     worst, don't forget that every thing depends on concealing my agency in the
                     business. I am stake-holder, as you say; and if you get into difficulty, will
                     be your secret, interested, and efficient friend. Your family will need a
                     resource, and have it in me. Yes, money is all potent; and we may, with that in
                     reserve, defy judges and juries, if the law takes hold of the matter.
                     Moreover—you are aware that in a few days, I am to be married to the daughter
                     of old Mr. Barker. This will give me a new position and influence."
                  Assuring Emerson, over and over again that he had nothing to fear, Baldwin took
                     back the checks, with a promise to cancel them, and then went away. His face
                     wore a look of trouble, and there was trouble in his heart. But a deeper
                     anxiety and alarm than he felt, was in the heart of his unprincipled
                     accomplice.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  THE nearer the hour approached when Caroline Barker was to become the wife of
                     Philip Emerson, the more troubled and anxious became Mary Lynn, and the more in
                     doubt as to what was her real duty. Certainty in regard to the letter written
                     to Mrs. Barker would have determined her course of action. But her mind was not
                     clear on the subject. Who else could have written it? To that question no
                     answer came to her mind.
                  Daily affectionate intercourse with Caroline enabled Mary to see deeper into
                     her heart; and the more that was laid open before her, the more fully satisfied
                     did she become that her marriage with Emerson would prove an unhappy one.
                  "You do look so sad, Mary," said Caroline, to her, one day, with tender concern
                     in her voice. "I am really afraid you are not happy here. I'm sure we all like
                     you very much, and I think you ought to like us."
                  "And so I do," quickly replied Mary, tears filling her eyes as she looked into
                     the face of Caroline. "None could be kinder to me nor more considerate than all
                     in this house."
                  "I wish you would try to be more cheerful, then," said the good-hearted girl,
                     smiling as she spoke. "I'm as happy as I can be; and I can't bear to see a
                     cloud on the face of any."
                  "Are you very happy?" asked Mary, in a serious voice.
                  "Indeed I am! And why not? A few days more, and I will be a bride. Is not that
                     enough to make the heart glad?"
                  At this point Caroline suddenly checked herself. A short time before, a person
                     who knew Mary's early history, had told her something about a lover to whom she
                     had been deeply attached in her better days; but who, from some cause, she had
                     discarded. The name of this lover was not mentioned. The reason why Caroline
                     checked herself, was in consequence of the thought that an utterance of the joy
                     she felt at her approaching marriage, might throw the mind of Mary too
                     painfully upon the past. She paused for a few moments, and then obeying an
                     impulse to speak, said, in a changed voice, laying her hand upon Mary as she
                     spoke, in a familiar, affectionate way—
                  
                  "Perhaps I ought not to talk so freely of my own happiness. At least, not to
                     you?"
                  Caroline had not intended to say just this. But these were the words that came
                     first into utterance.
                  "Why not to me?" asked Mary, with a surprise that was felt and manifested.
                  "Because," said Caroline, her mind a little confused, "it may throw your mind
                     unpleasantly backward; and, Heaven knows! I would not utter a word calculated
                     to give you a moment's pain."
                  "Did you think, for an instant, that I retained a single spark of regard for
                     Phil—"
                  This much had fallen from the lips of Mary, ere a thought of what she was
                     saying came to check further utterance. She was speaking with a quick energy
                     and a flashing of the eyes that startled her auditor.
                  "Forgive me for having unwittingly pained you," said Caroline, in a voice which
                     showed Mary that she was not understood, and that in her momentary
                     forgetfulness she had not betrayed the secret that rested so heavily upon her
                     heart. Her feelings, however, were so much disturbed, that she lost the mastery
                     over them; and was borne away by their pressure. With many words of kindness
                     and affection did Caroline seek to soothe the heart in which she had awakened a
                     tempest of emotion; and in this she was at last successful. When calmness was
                     restored, Mary sought her own room, to ponder over the one all-absorbing
                     theme—her duty to the loving-hearted girl, who was about being sacrificed to a
                     man in every way unworthy to lead her to the altar; and which sacrifice, a word
                     from her could prevent. It was while seeking to know her duty on this occasion,
                     that she resolved to see Emerson, and interrogate him on the subject of the
                     letter, and if, in the interview, she were made entirely certain that he wrote
                     it, to let that decide her course of action. As has been seen, he denied the
                     authorship, and in a way that left her mind still in doubt; and in doubt it
                     remained, day after day, until the one came that was to see the marriage of
                     Caroline and Philip Emerson.
                  Mary was alone with Caroline a good many times during the day, and each time
                     she was so much overcome by her feelings as to shed tears. Kindly and tenderly
                     would Caroline seek to speak comforting words. Alas! how little power did they
                     contain. To all the family Mary's greater distress of mind was apparent, and
                     the members spoke together on the subject.
                  "Oh, that I knew my duty!" murmured the unhappy girl, as she sat alone, or
                     thought that she was alone, a few hours before evening.
                  "If we all knew and performed our duty as well as you do," replied Mrs. Barker,
                     who happened to enter the room at the moment, "it would be far better for
                     us."
                  Mary started, and a crimson flush overspread her pale face. She was on the eve
                     of opening her whole heart to Mrs. Barker; but something held her back.
                  The lady paused a few moments, as if waiting for her to speak, and then passed
                     on through the room.
                  "Oh! what shall I do?" sobbed the distressed girl, wringing her hands, and
                     weeping again, bitterly.
                  Time moved on, and evening came.
                  But let us go back a little in the day, and see how it is with Emerson.
                  On the day previous, Baldwin had been suspended from his place in the bank, on
                     suspicion that all was not right. The hints of Mr. Barker had been acted upon
                     by the director, who called the attention of the board to the subject. By them
                     a secret investigation of the deposit ledger was made, under the direction of
                     the Cashier and the Receiving and Paying Tellers, while Baldwin was enjoying a
                     ride on one of his fast-going horses. The result was, a discovery of various
                     discrepancies, and strange entries, that made them decide upon suspending the
                     young man until a more thorough examination into the books could be made; and
                     this was accordingly done—greatly to his mortification and terror; and greatly
                     to the alarm of Emerson.
                  "A nice business, that, of young Baldwin's," said William Barker to Emerson, as
                     he called in at the store of the latter about mid-day.
                  "A bad business, certainly, for him," replied Emerson, as calmly as he could
                     speak, "for, whether proved innocent or guilty, he is a ruined man. The stain
                     of a suspicion like the one attached to him, is never fully wiped out."
                  "It certainly never will be wiped out in his case," said Barker, "for suspicion
                     has given place to certainty. He has confessed his crime."
                  "What!" The color faded momentarily from the face of Emerson.
                  "It is true. He confesses to having abstracted over thirty thousand dollars
                     from the bank, though he has, so far, concealed the means. But he speaks of an
                     accomplice outside."
                  "He does!"
                  "Yes; but refuses to give his name. As that accomplice probably has the bulk of
                     the money, strong efforts will be made to induce Baldwin to give him up. These
                     efforts, backed by the interference of Baldwin's friends, will, no doubt, bring
                     the scoundrel to light."
                  The knees of Emerson trembled as he stood leaning on his counter. But for this
                     support, he could hardly have borne the weight of his body.
                  "Bad business, certainly," he murmured. "Very bad business."
                  
                  "Indeed it is a bad business," said William Barker. "Somebody will go to the
                     Penitentiary."
                  From that time until evening, Emerson's mind was in a state of bewildering
                     anxiety and fear. He could not hold back from meeting Caroline at the marriage
                     altar, for he had no reason that he dared give for such an act; and he shrunk
                     from wedding any one with the prospect of being arrested in an hour afterwards
                     as an accomplice in a crime that might send him to the State's Prison. What the
                     wretched man suffered during the few hours that elapsed before repairing to the
                     house of Mr. Barker, is beyond description.
                  Return we now to Mary Lynn. Evening had come, and in an hour more Caroline
                     would be a bride. The conflict in Mary's mind had been so severe as to make her
                     really ill, and she had retired to her own room, where, depressed in mind and
                     body, she had thrown herself across the bed. All the earnest persuasions of
                     Caroline, and other members of the family, that she would be present at the
                     wedding, had been resisted; and now, she had obtained a release from
                     importunity by pleading illness—and the plea was no subterfuge.
                  Often, and with tearful earnestness, did Mary lift her heart to Heaven, during
                     that last hour, and pray for direction. At length she fell asleep; but her
                     dreaming thoughts moved on in the same current—not now guided by reason but
                     phantasy. She was amid the company assembled below, to witness the holy rite of
                     marriage. Emerson was there. He stood in the centre of the rooms, to her a
                     giant in form—his eyes red with an evil light, and lines deeply furrowed by
                     cruel purposes on his forehead. By his side, shrunk, trembling, the
                     pure-hearted Caroline, awaiting her sacrifice. Close around were the
                     company—and, as Mary glanced from face to face, she saw in none a pitying
                     emotion. Then the ceremony began, and was proceeding, when, in the anguish of
                     her feelings, the sleeper cried out,
                  "Will no one save her?"
                  "Save who, Mary?" came to her ears in a tone of affectionate concern, at the
                     same time that she felt a kiss upon her cheek.
                  "Oh, Caroline!" exclaimed the waking girl, flinging her arms around the neck of
                     Caroline Barker, who, all dressed in her bridal robes, had come to see her for
                     a moment before joining the company who were waiting for the ceremony to
                     begin.
                  For almost a minute Mary clung to the neck of Caroline, sobbing with
                     unrestrained emotion. Then the latter sought to lift herself up, but Mary only
                     clung to her the tighter, saying as she did so, in a low whisper,
                  "I cannot let you go."
                  "But they are waiting for me, dear," returned Caroline. "All is ready, and I
                     have come to see you for a moment."
                  Still Mary did not withdraw her arms.
                  Caroline kissed her once more, wondering, all the while, at the girl's strange
                     conduct, and again sought to get away from her.
                  "Don't go. Stay here with me. They won't find you," said Mary, in a wandering
                     manner.
                  With a sudden effort Caroline disengaged herself from the arms of Mary.
                  "Why do you say this?" she exclaimed. But seeing the flushed face and bright
                     eyes of Mary, she comprehended, in a moment, that her mind was, from sickness
                     or some other cause, partially unbalanced.
                  "There, there, dear," she said, in a soothing voice, laying her hand upon the
                     hot forehead of the young girl. "Don't talk so."
                  Mary, regaining in a moment the lost equilibrium of her mind, murmured,
                  "Forgive me. I hardly knew what I was saying."
                  Kissing her once more, Caroline turned from the bed whereon she was lying, and
                     glided from the room. As she did so, Mary started up with a wild, distressed
                     look, and bent her ear, hearkening to the sound of Caroline's returning
                     footsteps. Then banding her temples with her hands, she commenced moving about
                     the room, the very picture of anguish and irresolution.
                  Meanwhile the ceremony had commenced below. Those who observed Emerson closely
                     marked an unusual pallor of countenance, accompanied with a restless wandering,
                     or rather, darting of the eyes from point to point. It was plain that he was
                     ill at ease, yet struggling hard to appear self-possessed.
                  Mr. Barker was standing near one of the doors that opened into the hall,
                     looking first upon the face of the young man and then upon the pure, sweet face
                     of his child, while his heart felt troubled and oppressed. He had never liked
                     the idea of this union, and he liked it less than ever now. In his mind was an
                     overpowering perception that his daughter was about entering upon a life of
                     misery. But it was too late now to recede. No good reason for interdicting the
                     marriage had heretofore been presented to his mind, and none were presented
                     now. So he stood a passive witness of the ceremony as it proceeded.
                  A moment or two remained ere Caroline was to give utterance to the brief words
                     that made her the wife of Emerson, when Mr. Barker felt his arm suddenly
                     grasped from behind. Turning quickly, he met the agitated, and almost colorless
                     face of Mary Lynn, who said to him in an eager whisper,
                  "Oh, Mr. Barker! save her from this
                     fate! If you love your child, save her!"
                  The father required no further prompting now. Instantly his voice filled the
                     apartments with a peremptory command to stop the ceremony! A wild scene of
                     confusion ensued, in which Caroline was borne fainting from the room. When this
                     abated, and one and another looked around for Emerson, he was not to be found.
                     In the first moment of excitement he had left the house.
                  Scarcely had quiet been restored, ere a gentleman came rushing in, asking in a
                     loud voice for Mr. Barker.
                  "Is your daughter married yet?" he inquired, so soon as he found the person he
                     sought.
                  "No, thank God!" replied Mr. Barker.
                  "You may well thank God," said the stranger, "for it has just been discovered
                     that Philip Emerson is the accomplice of young Baldwin in robbing the Traders'
                     Bank!"
                  "What an escape!" murmured the agitated father, as he clasped his hands
                     together. "Yes," he added in a fervent voice, "thank God! thank God! For He has
                     wrought for us this great deliverance."
                  A few months have glided by since the troubled scenes just described, and there
                     is another bridal assemblage in the house of Mr. Barker. But under what
                     different circumstances and with what different prospects for happiness do the
                     parties now about to be united approach the marriage altar. Over them bends the
                     cloudless sky, and beautiful vistas open far down into the future. Who is the
                     bride? There she stands beside William Barker, pure and beautiful as Spring's
                     earliest flowers. Her name is Mary Lynn. She has passed through her long night
                     of trial, and this is the glad hour of virtue's triumph.
                  There is but one pale cheek and sad eye in that pleasant company. Caroline is
                     there; and even while she feels a weight like a hand pressing on her bosom, she
                     is thankful that it is with her as it is—and that she is not the wife of a man
                     just proven guilty of a crime, and sentenced to the expiation thereof in the
                     solitary and gloomy walls of a prison. No one looks with a tender and more
                     loving eye upon the gentle bride than herself; nor rejoices with a deeper joy
                     at the happiness that is in store for her.
                  Mrs. Lynn is there of course, and her worldly heart is swelling with a proud
                     delight at this unlooked for elevation of her daughter and prospective change
                     for herself. There is no one now who more loudly execrates the "villain
                     Emerson," than she.
                  And here let us draw the curtain over the scenes we have introduced, with the
                     simple remark that in all cases where a maiden discovers an overweening
                     selfishness and want of honest principle in a lover, her plain duty to herself
                     is to discard him. To marry such a man is a greater risk than any woman is
                     justified in taking. Her virtues may win him from his evil
                     cupidities; but the chances are all against such a result; and we repeat, the
                     risk is too great, and should not be taken.
               
            
            
               
               THE GIFT OF BEAUTY.
               BY T. S. ARTHUR.
               "IS she not loveliness itself?" said a young man named Atwood, to a friend who
                  stood by his side. "My eyes follow her as if there were a spell in her
                  beauty."
               "I have often said," was replied to this remark, "that Florence d'Almaigne was the
                  handsomest woman I had ever seen."
               "You said the truth. I never saw her equal."
               "As your hand is still free, why don't you seek to gain favor in the eyes of this
                  queen of beauty?" said the friend.
               "There would be little chance for me," replied Atwood, "while so many, with
                  pretensions far more imposing than mine, are eagerly seeking her favor. I may
                  worship at a distance, but dare not approach and lay my hand upon the
                  goddess."
               "You know the old adage, Atwood," said the friend, smiling. "'Faint heart never
                  won fair lady.' You are as good as any of the aspirants for her favor, and far
                  better than most of them. Press up boldly, then. It is the boldest that wins the
                  most beautiful. And she is worth winning, if I am rightly informed, for she is as
                  good as beautiful."
               "Her face is the image of her mind. No one can be long in her company without half
                  forgetting her pure, bright countenance in love for her purer spirit. But, as I
                  said before, she is not to be mine; I must worship at a distance. Look at her now!
                  See how unconsciously she leans toward Courtney while he speaks to her, as if she
                  were striving to comprehend in every word he utters, some deeper meaning. Her
                  heart is already his."
               "I trust not. He is not worthy to possess her heart."
               "He is utterly unworthy!" replied Atwood, "for he has an impure mind, and is
                  wanting in sound principles. He is attracted only by the surpassing beauty of her
                  face. The unfading beauty of her mind he does not see; and even if he could see
                  it, he would deem it an inferior attraction."
               Florence d'Almaigne, the young lady about whom the two friends were conversing,
                  possessed, in a high degree, the dangerous gift of beauty.—Wherever she went, she
                  became came the centre around which gathered a crowd of admirers—the boldest
                  forcing themselves at once upon her attention, while the more modest and more
                  excellent looked on from a greater distance. Among the most ardent of her admirers
                  was Atwood, just introduced, and a young man named Courtney. Atwood lacked
                  confidence in himself, while Courtney was always ready to press forward to an
                  advanced position. The one drew back from the place which his merit entitled him
                  to assume, while the other assumed the place for which he was really unworthy.
                  From this it will be seen how unequal were the chances of the young men for
                  gaining favor in the eyes of Florence. The remark of Atwood, as to the
                  unworthiness of Courtney, caused this reply.
               "What you say, my friend, is perfectly true, and, therefore, the stronger the
                  reason exists why you should press forward and secure the hand of Florence. You
                  love her for the beauty of her mind as well as the beauty of her face, and
                  therefore, you are more worthy of her, and more justly entitled to her hand. Claim
                  it boldly, and it is yours!"
               But Atwood shook his head.
               "It's no use. Already her heart is more than half in the possession of
                  Courtney."
               "I don't believe it."
               "Look for yourself. If she did not love him, could she be so lost to all around
                  her as she now seems to be? I have been looking at her for ten minutes, and I am
                  sure her eyes have seen nothing but his face, and her ear heard nothing but the
                  tones of his voice, during all that time."
               "Give her eyes a chance to see your face, and her ears an opportunity to hear the
                  sound of your voice," replied the friend, "and I doubt not that she will like the
                  expression of the one and the tones of the other far better. You are too
                  diffident, Atwood—you think too humbly of yourself. Lay this weakness, I had
                  almost said folly, aside, and for the sake of Florence d'Almaigne, if for nothing
                  else, step forward like a man and win her for your bride. You can do it—I know you
                  can. See! They are about forming a cotillion in the next room. Go at once and ask
                  the hand of Florence for the first set."
               "Courtney has secured that, of course."
               "Don't be so certain of that. It is more than probable that he has not even
                  noticed the movement for a dance. But, even if he has, claim her hand for the
                  second set; and if engaged for that, secure it for the third."
               Thus urged, Atwood passed across the room to where Florence sat by the side of
                  Courtney, and asked her if he might claim the favor of her hand for the cotillion
                  that was forming.
               "Cotillion!" said Courtney, in surprise,
                  looking around. "Bless me! Are we to have a dance! I didn't notice what was going
                  on."
               With a graceful inclination of her head, and a smile that went direct to the heart
                  of Atwood, Florence accepted the invitation, and rising up, drew her hand within
                  the offered arm of the young man. As they were moving away, Courtney, who had
                  recovered himself, said—
               "Shall I have the pleasure of your hand for the next set, Miss d'Almaigne?"
               "Certainly," she replied, and then advanced to the next room with Atwood.
               On their leaving the floor, after having danced through the cotillion, Courtney
                  met them, and attempted to take Florence from the arm of Atwood, by stepping
                  forward with a manner perfectly polite, yet coolly impudent, which said, "you have
                  danced with the lady, which is all the claim you have to her." But Atwood retained
                  the lady's hand within his arm, conducted her to a seat, and sat down beside her.
                  Courtney took a chair on the other side, and attempted to engage her in
                  conversation; but Atwood, who felt annoyed at the manner of his rival, determined
                  not to be thrown into the shade quite so easily. He, therefore, exerted himself in
                  order to keep the attention of Florence, and succeeded in leading the
                  conversation, and enchaining her interest in spite of all the attempts that were
                  made by Courtney to divert her mind from the topics that were introduced.
               Florence had always highly esteemed Atwood. The excellent qualities of his mind
                  and heart were well understood by her, and justly appreciated. But she had never
                  looked upon him as a lover, because, so far as she could understand him, he had
                  never approached her as a lover. Here she was mistaken; and her mistake arose from
                  this cause. In consequence of her great beauty she was surrounded by admirers from
                  the time she first entered society. Lovers pressed forward, and sought with the
                  utmost eagerness, to gain her favor. Admired, courted, flattered, she learned to
                  expect something more than a quiet, somewhat retiring and deferential manner in
                  any one who approached her as a lover. If there was not some ardor manifested—some
                  more than ordinary delight at being in her company, expressed, she could not
                  imagine that any deeper feeling than one of mere friendship could exist. From the
                  cause here assigned, she had remained in entire ignorance of the deep and true
                  affection with which she was loved by Atwood. Had she known the nature of
                     his feelings, others might have approached her in vain.
               On the particular occasion now referred to, the evident pleasure that Atwood
                  seemed to have in her company, and the more than usual efforts that were made by
                  him to interest her, were particularly gratifying. She had been pleased, and more
                  than pleased with Courtney; but she could not help seeing and feeling how greatly
                  Atwood was his superior in all the qualities that a woman could truly love.
                  Instinctively her heart warmed toward Atwood, and she felt that in loving one like
                  him, and being blessed with his manly love in return, she could indeed be happy.
                  But this was a feeling that only existed for a little while, for she was engaged
                  to Courtney for the next cotillion, and was then separated from Atwood, who, not
                  being of an ardent temperament, could not again press forward and force himself
                  upon her attention as he had done under the instigation of his friend. To him it
                  seemed a lowering of himself to come into rivalry with a man like Courtney.
               "If she can love him, she can't love me," he said to himself, with some bitterness
                  and in slight feeling of contempt, as he stood aloof during the rest of the
                  evening, and saw her monopolized almost entirely by Courtney.
               From that time, instead of visiting Miss d'Almaigne more frequently, and showing
                  by more palpable, signs that he loved her, Atwood, with a strange inconsistency,
                  went to see her less frequently, thus leaving a fairer field to Courtney, who, in
                  consequence of the interest the other had manifested for Florence at the party,
                  pressed his suit with increasing ardor. A result such as might naturally be
                  expected, followed. "The boldest won the most beautiful."
               It soon became known that Florence was the affianced bride of Charles Courtney.
                  This intelligence had a more serious effect upon Atwood than he had anticipated.
                  When the fact came indisputably to his knowledge, which it did just as he was
                  making up his mind to lay aside his diffidence and reserve, and boldly present
                  himself as a suitor for the hand and heart of one whose love would be, he felt,
                  the greatest blessing of his life, it stunned, confused, and almost maddened
                  him.
               "Fool—fool—fool that I am!" he mentally ejaculated. "I might have won her; but now
                  it is as too late!"
               From that time the young man was changed. He went no more into company. He became
                  thoughtful, silent, and melancholy. This change was observed, and formed the
                  subject of remarks which failed not to reach the ears of Florence.
               "I expected to hear of some broken heart when your engagement was announced," said
                  a young friend to her, a few days after the event.
               "Did you, indeed!" returned Florence, smiling. "How many catastrophes of this kind have occurred, to your
                  certain knowledge?"
               "I have only heard of one case yet," replied the friend.
               "There is one, then?"
               "Oh, yes. One decided case of a broken heart."
               "Indeed! Pray who is the unfortunate sufferer?"
               "Can't you guess?"
               "Oh, no! I have not the least idea."
               "I don't believe you have. I never thought that he aspired to the distinction of
                  one of your lovers; although I knew him as a warm friend and admirer."
               "So much the more wonderful! Who is he?"
               "Henry Atwood."
               "Impossible!" exclaimed Florence, her face becoming at once serious.
               "It is true. They say he is very much changed, and has not gone into company since
                  the fact of your engagement to Mr. Courtney became known. I am sure I haven't met
                  him anywhere for over two months. Have you?"
               "No. But there is doubtless some other cause for this than the one you have
                  assigned."
               "It is said not. Mr. S—— told me yesterday, that to his certain knowledge, Atwood
                  has long been deeply in love with you, but, seeing you surrounded by such a crowd
                  of admirers, thought it hopeless to press his suit."
               "Not a word of it true," returned Florence.
               But her friend persisted in declaring that it was just as she had said.
               Although Miss d'Almaigne asserted her entire disbelief in what had been alleged,
                  yet the impression that it might be true could not be wholly resisted. When alone,
                  and she pondered more seriously upon what she had heard, and remembered that she
                  had not received a visit from Atwood, nor met him anywhere in company, for at
                  least two months, this impression gained strength. As it thus gained strength from
                  many more evidences that were presented to her, it produced a feeling of
                  tenderness whenever she thought of Atwood, and caused something so much like
                  regret that she had not known his real sentiments sooner, that she was startled
                  and alarmed at her own state of mind, and endeavored to thrust aside every thought
                  on the subject that presented itself. But this she found by no means an easy task.
                  For a long time she could think of nothing else, which so distressed her that the
                  change in her feelings was noticed by her friends, and even by her intended
                  husband.
               Having gained the object of his pursuit, as far as her consent to marry him was
                  concerned, the ardent manners of Courtney gave place to a more quiet exterior and
                  the repose of self-satisfaction. Little by little his true character began to show
                  itself, and there were not unfrequently exhibited, to the eyes of Florence, traits
                  she could not admire, nor even approve. Involuntarily contrasts would be made
                  between him and Atwood as to some particular thing that would show itself. This
                  was often done without her taking any notice of the mental process, although it
                  impressed itself, with all its effects, upon her mind; when she became at any time
                  conscious of such a train of thoughts, she condemned it as wrong, and sought to
                  fix her attention upon some other subjects.
               The nearer the wedding day of Florence approached, the more disturbed became her
                  mind, and the more did her heart shrink from the anticipated union. She had met
                  Atwood but once since the time of her engagement. It was at the house of a very
                  intimate friend of the young man's where he happened to call, not dreaming that
                  she was there. He met Florence with an embarrassed air. When he addressed her, it
                  was with a polite formality altogether different from his former manner. Atwood
                  only staid about half an hour, and then went away.
               "He is very much changed," remarked the friend, after the young man had retired.
                  "It grieves me to see him. I'm afraid his business hasn't turned out well, for he
                  told me, the last time he was here, that he had sold out his store, and was going
                  to leave the city."
               "Indeed!" Florence spoke with a quickness of tone, and an expression of surprise
                  so strong, that her friend looked at her earnestly for a moment or two, and then
                  said—
               "Yes. He leaves next week, I believe."
               "Where is he going?"
               "I did not enquire, particularly; but somewhere South or West, I believe. It is
                  singular what could have come over him all at once. I tried to jest with him about
                  being disappointed in love, but he did not appear to relish it very much, and so I
                  said no more. I am half inclined to believe, though, that it is something of this
                  kind. But who could have jilted him?"
               "You said, just now, that you thought it was some business matter that troubled
                  him," said Florence, wishing to effect a change in the tenor of her friend's
                  remarks.
               "So I did. But sometimes I think one thing and sometimes another. I am more
                  inclined, however, to the opinion that he has been disappointed in love. If so,
                  who could have jilted him? as I just said. That is what puzzles me. I never knew
                  that he addressed any one seriously. In fact, the only lady I ever heard him
                  admire was yourself. Don't blush so! It's the truth. But it wasn't you, of course.
                  Well! Poor fellow! I'm sorry for him from
                  my heart, for he is one of the best of young men. If any one has trifled with his
                  affections, she'll regret it before she dies, or I'm mistaken. She will be lucky,
                  indeed, if she gets a husband half as worthy as he is."
               This conversation took place about a month previous to the time appointed for the
                  wedding of Florence. It tended in no way to increase the pleasure with which she
                  looked forward to that period, for since a question as to the entire worthiness of
                  Courtney had been created by little acts, words, and omissions that forced
                  themselves upon her attention shortly after her engagement with him, she had
                  observed him more closely, and read many leaves in the book of his character
                  before unturned. The consequence was that she shrunk more and more from him every
                  day.
               About two weeks before the time arrived at which Florence was to be married, she
                  was attending a large party. During the evening, while sitting near to one side of
                  the folding doors that communicated between the two parlors, she found herself so
                  close to a couple of young men in the adjoining parlor, who were partly concealed
                  from view, as to learn all that they said. She did not give any particular heed to
                  their words until their mention of her intended husband's name caused a sudden
                  throb of her heart.
               "There's Courtney," said one of them.
               "He's to be married to Miss d'Almaigne soon, I believe," remarked the other.
               "So it is said. Well! There's no accounting for tastes. How Miss d'Almaigne ever
                  came to fancy him—a fellow with more impudence than brains, and more pretension
                  than principle—is what I can't understand. I know half a dozen young men, between
                  whom and Courtney there is no kind of comparison, who would have jumped at her;
                  but they were too modest to put in their claims for such a queen of beauty. Ah me!
                  I feel sorry for her. She is a lovely girl, and it is said as good as she is
                  beautiful. As to her ever being happy with Courtney, that is out of the question,
                  and she will discover it to her sorrow before she is a year married. It is a
                  dangerous thing to possess beauty like hers. It is almost sure to bring
                  unhappiness in the married life."
               "It will certainly bring it, in her case," was replied. "Courtney has been
                  attracted alone by her beauty. Her goodness he has no ability to appreciate; for
                  his heart is too depraved. I know him well, and know him to be a bad man. If I
                  thought she would believe me, I would tell her some things that would open her
                  eyes, and brave all the consequences he might visit upon me. But to do so would be
                  useless; she no doubt thinks him perfection. I wish it may always be so!"
               "So do I, but that is impossible."
               Here the subject of conversation was changed, and Florence moved to another part
                  of the room as quickly as possible. The young men remained perfectly ignorant of
                  the fact that she had overheard their words. About ten minutes afterward Florence
                  left the rooms, under the plea of not feeling well, and returned home. It was not
                  a mere plea. The unhappy girl was sick at heart.
               Florence d'Almaigne had no mother to counsel her in an emergency like this. That
                  best friend had been dead for many years. Her father was a stern-tempered man; one
                  to whom she feared to mention what she had heard, lest it should lead to serious
                  consequences. All night she lay in anxious thought as to the best course for her
                  to pursue. Before morning she had made up her mind firmly, not to consummate the
                  marriage contract, predicating her resolution upon the agreement of some things
                  she had overheard in regard to Courtney, with her own observation of his
                  character. She also made up her mind to inform him by letter, immediately, of her
                  resolution.
               At the breakfast table her father noticed that she looked pale and unhappy. He
                  enquired in regard to her health; but she answered him evasively, saying something
                  about not being able to sleep, and having a violent headache.
               Immediately after breakfast, Florence retired to her room, and wrote, as follows,
                  to Courtney:
               "DEAR SIR—The nearer the time fixed for our marriage approaches, the more unhappy
                  do I become. When I consented to be your wife I did not fully know my own heart. I
                  now see that the proposed union, if it should take place, will make me, of all
                  persons, the most miserable. This being so, would it be right either for your sake
                  or mine, for me to take upon myself vows that cannot come from the heart? If your
                  wife is wretched, can you be happy? No, you cannot be! Release me, then, I beg of
                  you, from the promise I made to become your wife. Do not seek to change my present
                  feelings, for you cannot succeed. A more intimate intercourse with you, which I
                  have had since our engagement, has made me more intimately acquainted than I
                  possibly could have been before that engagement took place, with peculiarities in
                  your disposition and traits in your character, which, instead of drawing my heart
                  closer to, have estranged it from you. I cannot help this. It is a fact in the
                  nature of things, and one which neither you nor I should lightly disregard. Yours,
                  &c. Florence."
               
               Mr. d'Almaigne was sitting in his office about twelve o'clock on that day, when
                  young Courtney entered. He had a strange agitated look. Without a word of preface,
                  he placed the letter of Florence in his hand.
               "In the name of goodness! what does all this mean?" exclaimed the father, after
                  running his eye hurriedly over the letter.
               "That's what I wish you to explain, sir," said Courtney, compressing his lips, and
                  eyeing Mr. d'Almaigne with a steady look.
               There was something in the expression of the eye, face and tone of the young man
                  that Mr. d'Almaigne did not like. Before replying to his words, he read the letter
                  of Florence over again slowly, and as thoughtfully as he could.
               "I presume you can explain it better than I can," he said, looking up from the
                  letter, and speaking in a firm, yet mild voice. "This is the first I have heard of
                  this matter. Pray, what has led to it?"
               "That is just what I desire to know from you. It is not to be presumed that your
                  daughter would take a step like this without consulting her father."
               "I have told you, young man, that this is the first I have heard of the matter?"
                  replied Mr. d'Almaigne, sternly.
               "Do you intend sustaining your daughter in the step she has taken?" asked
                  Courtney.
               "She is of age. If she adhere to what she intimates in this letter, I shall not
                  attempt to control her."
               "Then, sir, I warn you, that this is not the last you will hear of the matter!"
                  returned Courtney, in a passionate manner, taking the open letter from Mr.
                  d'Almaigne's hand, and turning away as he thrust it into his pocket.
               The father hurried home.
               "Florence, dear," he said, tenderly, on meeting his daughter, "I wish to know from
                  you all that has prompted the strange letter you sent to-day to Mr. Courtney.
                  Speak freely. If you can show me that you are right, I will sustain you."
               This was so different from what she had expected from her father, that it melted
                  her to tears, and it was sometime before she could control her feelings
                  sufficiently to give him a full history of all she had thought, felt, and observed
                  for some months, and the startling confirmation of her fears that had accidentally
                  occurred on the previous evening.
               "Who were the young men who spoke so freely of Mr. Courtney?" asked the
                  father.
               Florence hesitated.
               "Speak freely, my child. I must know all."
               Florence mentioned their names, and the remarks which each had made.
               "If Robert M—— said that, there is truth in it. Thank heaven, my child! for saving
                  you from a union that must have made you wretched."
               On the next day, Mr. d'Almaigne received a notice from an attorney, that he had
                  been instructed by Charles Courtney to institute a suit against his daughter, for
                  breach of a marriage contract, and that damages were to be laid at ten thousand
                  dollars. Mr. d'Almaigne immediately called upon the two young men alluded to as
                  having conversed quite freely about Courtney. To them he related what his daughter
                  had overheard them say, and what had been the result, and finished by asking if
                  they had any facts to which they would be willing to testify in court, that would
                  be received as sufficient proof of the unfitness of Courtney to become the husband
                  of his daughter. One of them declined having anything to do with the matter, but
                  the other was made of different material. He not only related to Mr. d'Almaigne
                  many unprincipled and immoral acts of Courtney, but avowed his willingness to give
                  clear testimony on the subject in court, if necessary.
               "Are you willing to meet Courtney, in the presence of his own lawyer, and repeat
                  what you have repeated to me?" asked Mr. d'Almaigne.
               "Without hesitation. It is a duty I owe to innocence, to truth, to justice."
               "Are you not afraid of consequences, personal to yourself?"
               "No, sir; I never think of anything personal where right is concerned," was the
                  manly reply.
               In a day or two Courtney was confronted with the young man, and became, for the
                  first time, aware of the notoriety of some of his acts. He blustered and
                  threatened a good deal to conceal his chagrin, but there it all rested. No more
                  was ever heard of the suit. Some months afterward certain transactions of a
                  disreputable character in which he had been engaged, coming to light, he deemed it
                  most prudent to leave the city, to which he did not soon return.
               The effect of all this upon Florence was very unhappy. Her spirits sunk, and her
                  health suffered. She withdrew from society, almost entirely; when she did appear,
                  every one noticed that the brilliancy of her cheeks had faded, and that her eyes
                  no longer sparkled with their former lustre. Her voice too had lost the witchery
                  of its tones. She was still beautiful, but her beauty did not arrest the attention
                  as quickly as before. In course of time this depression of spirits wore off, and
                  Florence went into company more frequently. The flush of health came back to her
                  cheeks, the light to her eyes, and the heart-refreshing melody to the tones of her
                  voice. But her whole manner was more quiet, and she rather shunned than courted the attentions that were everywhere paid to
                  her. Suitors as before sought her hand, but she gave encouragement to none, and if
                  any, more bold than the rest pressed forward and told the story of their love, she
                  gently declined the generous tender of their hearts. Years passed away, and though
                  not unwooed, Florence d'Almaigne was still unwedded.
               Business called Mr. d'Almaigne to the West about five years after the occurrence
                  of the principle event of our story. He had only been absent a few weeks when
                  intelligence reached Florence that, from the upsetting of a stage, he had been
                  seriously injured, and was then lying at a hotel in Cincinnati. Without a moment's
                  delay, Florence made preparations for going to her father. She started on the next
                  morning. When she arrived at Cincinnati, she found that he had received several
                  severe fractures, and was otherwise badly hurt; but that he was out of all danger,
                  and recovering as rapidly as the nature of his injuries would permit.
               During the long conversation that Florence held with her father about the
                  accident, the pain he had suffered, and the circumstances attending his removal to
                  Cincinnati, and the care and attention he had received there, he mentioned the
                  fact that a young man who had left their native city some years ago, by the name
                  of Atwood, and who was boarding in the hotel, had shown him the greatest kindness,
                  visiting him many times each day, and sometimes remaining up with him, when his
                  pain was worse, nearly all night long.
               The cause of the deepening color on Florence's cheeks was altogether unknown to
                  her father. He had scarcely done speaking, when a tap on the door was followed by
                  the entrance of the very person who had been mentioned. He looked very surprised,
                  and was evidently confused at seeing Florence, and it required a very strong
                  effort on her part not to betray too palpably the deep agitation of her bosom.
               "Mrs. Courtney! I am happy to see you," said Atwood, advancing and taking her
                  hand, "though grieved at the sad accident that has caused your hurried visit to
                  our Western country."
               "Stop—stop, my young friend!" said Mr. d'Almaigne, "not quite so fast. Not Mrs.
                  Courtney, thank heaven! but Florence d'Almaigne."
               Atwood let the hand of Florence, that he still held, fall quickly, and stepped
                  back one or two paces, with a look of bewilderment.
               "I thought you were married years ago," he said.
               "She was to have been," replied her father, "but we discovered the unworthiness of
                  her suitor before it was too late."
               We need hardly say that Atwood remained quite as attentive to Mr. d'Almaigne as
                  before the arrival of his daughter; nor will the reader be at all surprised to
                  hear that before the old gentleman was able to leave the city, he had seen enough
                  to satisfy him that the young man and Florence were on the very best terms
                  imaginable. Shortly after his return home, he received proposals from Atwood for
                  the hand of his daughter, which, on reference to her, were accepted, provided he
                  would move back again to the East. As may be supposed, this was not considered a
                  hard proviso.
               "Mine at last," said Atwood, as he sat gazing into the face of his wife, some days
                  after their marriage. "For this happiness I never dared even to hope. If you had
                  been less beautiful you would have been mine years ago."
               "The gift of beauty had liked to have proved a fatal gift to me," replied
                  Florence, a thoughtful shade passing over her face.
               "As it proves to hundreds every year. But the danger is past now."
               "For which my heart is overflowing with thankfulness," returned Florence, as her
                  eyes filled with tears, and she leaned forward and rested her lovely face upon the
                  breast of her husband.
            
            
               
               THE YOUNG MUSIC TEACHER.
               BY T. S. ARTHUR.
               MR. WELLS was a widower with two daughters—Jane and Mary. The former twenty, and
                  the latter eighteen. He had been accounted a man in easy circumstances, from the
                  fact that he lived in a very comfortable style, and gave his children the best
                  education that money could not procure. But, in doing this, he lived fully up to
                  his own income. Death suddenly removed him, and left his two daughters without
                  fortune or home. An uncle, Mr. Hendee, was the only relative they had. He was what
                  is called well off in the world; possessing a very handsome property. But, as he
                  had a young and expensive family, his regular income was never much beyond his
                  wants. As soon as Mr. Hendee, who administered on Mr. Well's estate, ascertained
                  that nothing would be left after paying off the debts, he informed Jane and Mary
                  of the fact, and, at the same time, offered them a home.
               For some weeks after their father's death, the two young ladies remained in the
                  house where they had been living, all the domestic arrangements continuing the
                  same as during his lifetime. They had no suspicion of the real state of their
                  father's affairs, and were only affected with almost inconsolable grief at his
                  loss. When their uncle unfolded to them the true position in which they stood,
                  they were at first overwhelmed with alarm. His prompt and kind offer of a home,
                  soothed their anxious feelings, and left their minds in a calmer frame.
               "How kind and generous our uncle is," Jane remarked on the day after he had
                  proposed to the sisters to consider his house their future dwelling place.
               "Truly so," Mary replied with warmth, while glow of genuine gratitude lit up her
                  sober face.
               "We shall feel almost as much at home with uncle Hendee, as we did in our own
                  father's house."
               "Do you think it right for us to go there?" asked Mary, looking at her sister with
                  a serious expression of countenance.
               "Right! What can you mean, sister?"
               "We have no claims upon him."
               "He is our father's brother."
               "But not our father, Jane."
               Mary's sister looked at her for some moments, utterly at a loss to comprehend the
                  drift of her remarks.
               "He is our uncle, and has offered us a home," she at length said. "It would be a
                  strange act in us to refuse to accept of it because we have no claims upon him;
                  especially, when there is no other threshold over which we can pass."
               "But he has a large family of his own to support."
               "And is able enough to support them and us."
               "Perhaps so. But that does not alter our position in the least. While our father
                  lived, his house was our home by natural right. Now that he is taken from us, will
                  it be right for us to lean upon any other arm?"
               "We must lean upon some arm, now that we have his no longer."
               "Yes,—but should not each of us lean upon her own arm? Is not a mere state of
                  dependence upon a relation a wrong position for a young lady to hold?"
               "Lean upon our own arms! How are we to do that, Mary?"
               "There are many young women who support themselves genteelly. Why may not we? The
                  truth is, I have been thinking about this ever since Uncle Hendee was here
                  yesterday, and the more I turn it over in my mind the more reluctant am I to
                  accept of his generous offer. I do not feel as if it would be just for me to do
                  so. I have a good education, and could readily support myself as a French teacher;
                  or by giving lessons in music."
               "A French teacher! Lessons in music! Mary, you cannot be in earnest."
               "Indeed, sister, I am sure that I can never go into Uncle Hendee's house, and
                  accept the home he has so kindly offered, without feeling self-condemned, and
                  losing my self-respect. A state of mere dependence would be deeply galling to me.
                  As a music or French teacher, I should be far happier."
               "Mary, you must not think of it. Do not, on any account, breathe such a thing to
                  Uncle Hendee. It would wound severely the generous feelings he has so nobly
                  expressed."
               Thus opposed, Mary said no more. But she thought over the matter constantly; and
                  the more she thought about it, the more dissatisfied was she at the idea of
                  becoming a dependent upon her Uncle's bounty.
               A few days afterwards, Mr. Hendee informed his two nieces, that he must give up
                  the house in which they lived, and sell off their father's furniture. Their aunt
                  came in her carriage, and, with many kind assurances of her love for them, took
                  them to her own home, and bade them,
                  henceforth, consider it as theirs. Tears of natural regret at leaving the place
                  where they had spent so many pleasant seasons, mingled with heart-drops of sorrow,
                  as they remembered the kind father they should see no more in this world. For the
                  first few days after they had entered the hospitable mansion of their uncle and
                  aunt, the sisters felt much depressed in spirits. After that, Jane gradually
                  became more cheerful. But Mary continued thoughtful, and, evidently, troubled in
                  mind.
               "Try, my dear child," said her aunt to her, a few weeks after she had come into
                  her house, "to feel more cheerful. Do not look back with grief, but forward with
                  hope. Let us be to you all that you have lost. We love you and Jane, and desire to
                  think of you, and feel towards you, as if you were our own children."
               Mary was affected to tears. She drew her arms around the neck of her aunt; kissed
                  her cheek, and wept upon her bosom.
               "Your generous kindness I shall never forget," she said, as soon as her emotion
                  would permit her to speak. "But, my good aunt, it is my position here that
                  troubles me more than any thing else."
               "My dear child! what do you mean?" asked Mrs. Hendee, in surprise.
               "I have no right to burden you."
               "Mary!" Her aunt seemed hurt by the tone of her voice.
               "Do not misunderstand me, aunt," Mary quickly said. "I mean not to insinuate, that
                  I feel that you think I am a burden to you. Oh, no. Your noble conduct towards us
                  fills my bosom with a glow of grateful emotions. It is not that. But, now that my
                  father is dead, up to whom I had a natural right to look, I do not feel that I
                  can, with justice, become dependent upon any one but myself. Do you understand me,
                  aunt?"
               "I believe I do, Mary. But dismiss such thoughts. If your father's brother is
                  willing to take your father's place, you have no need to make any nice
                  distinctions between his relation and that of your father. He is both able and
                  willing to do all we have proposed."
               "I have thought all that over very carefully, aunt," Mary said. "But it does not
                  unburden my mind. Every day, it becomes with me more and more a matter of
                  conscience not to remain dependent. I have the ability to maintain myself; and I
                  believe I ought to do it."
               Mrs. Hendee was silent with surprise and admiration of the noble minded girl,
                  whose true feelings she began to perceive clearly.
               "You seem to be really in earnest," was her smiling reply, after the lapse of
                  nearly a minute.
               The changed manner of Mrs. Hendee made the heart of Mary bound.
               "Indeed I am, aunt," she said, her countenance lightening up, yet still retaining
                  its serious look. "I do not mean to wound you, by declining your generous offer;
                  for I know that it is made in good faith, and my heart blesses you for it. But, to
                  accept of your bounty, would be to do violence to what I think right
                  principles."
               "What do you propose to do?" asked Mrs. Hendee, gravely, her manner having again
                  changed.
               "I think, as a French teacher in some seminary, I might easily support myself; or,
                  I could give lessons in music."
               "True. But, think, Mary, how your doing so would affect your station. As a teacher
                  you could not expect to occupy in all respects your present position in
                  society."
               "I should be as worthy of confidence and regard, aunt."
               "True. But something more than mere personal excellence is required. It is not
                  worth alone that gives either a man or woman a place in good society. As a member
                  of our family, you will occupy the same position you have ever held; but, as a
                  mere teacher of French or music, you will not be able to maintain your present
                  place."
               "Ought that consideration to govern me?"
               "I think it should have its due weight."
               "So do I. But a consideration of what is right, should have the first influence
                  upon my actions. Now, I do not think it would be right for me to become a
                  dependent upon my uncle's generosity. I believe that I am in duty bound to support
                  myself. Ought I for a moment to weigh this clear consciousness against any fears
                  of losing social standing?"
               Mrs. Hendee did not reply for some moments. She felt a glow of admiration for the
                  honest, independent spirit of her niece, and yet, could not bring her mind to
                  think for an instant of letting the high minded girl act as she proposed.
               "You must talk with your uncle," she said, after puzzling with her own thoughts
                  for a time. "I am sure, however, that he will never hear to your doing what you
                  suggest."
               "I wish you would speak to him about it, aunt. I cannot."
               "Oh! certainly. But you must not be surprised at his decided opposition."
               "I am sure Uncle Hendee will not oppose me in an act that he must see to be
                  clearly right."
               "But I am not so sure that he will be able to see it exactly as you do," replied
                  her aunt.
               This conversation took place without the knowledge of Jane Wells, who was quietly
                  enjoying the pleasant home that had been
                  offered them. She did not appreciate either her sister's motives or feelings, and,
                  therefore, since the first conversation Mary had held with her upon the subject,
                  she had not made to it any allusion.
               When Mrs. Hendee mentioned to her husband what had taken place between her and
                  Mary, he was too much surprised to see at once, clearly, the spirit that actuated
                  his niece. But this soon became apparent to his mind.
               "Noble girl!" he could not help exclaiming. "She has her father's independent
                  spirit, and I honor it in her."
               "But you will not, I am sure, humor her strange desire to become a teacher instead
                  of an inmate of our family."
               "We must not do violence to such high and true principles of action as she
                  evinces. It was our duty to offer to both her and her sister a home. This we have
                  done cheerfully. But, if Mary feels that it would be right for her to depend upon
                  herself, we ought not to oppose her too strongly."
               As early as possible, Mr. Hendee sought an interview with his niece. He found that
                  her ideas were clear, and based upon abstract principles of right.
               "There is a view of the subject," he said, while conversing with her, "that I
                  hardly think you have taken, Mary, and one that you should weigh well."
               "What is that, Uncle?" she asked.
               "It is this. By education, habits, and association, your mind has been formed for
                  a social sphere above what you will be able to occupy, if you become a teacher of
                  music or anything else. By remaining where you are as one of my family, all that
                  is congenial to your taste and character will be secured to you. You will marry,
                  of course, when of a proper age, should one you can approve, claim your hand. But
                  if you place yourself out of the circle of those who are of like tastes and
                  feelings with yourself, you cannot hope to form such an alliance as will most
                  fully secure your happiness in after life. Forgive the seeming indelicacy of an
                  allusion like this, my dear niece. I have to make it, in order to let you see all
                  the consequences of the act you propose. Remain where you are—keep your present
                  position in the circle in which you are worthy to move, and in a few years, as the
                  wife of a man of wealth and standing, you will be placed far above the feeling of
                  dependence that now seems so galling to you."
               Mary did not reply to her uncle immediately. She sat in deep thought, with her
                  eyes upon the floor. At length breathing heavily, she looked up, and replied in a
                  voice that was at first tremulous, but soon became firm.
               "I have carefully weighed all this. But it does not change my views. It is for me
                  to act right in the present, and leave all else to be arranged for my
                  good by Him who suffers not, unnoted, a sparrow to fall to the ground. I cannot,
                  with a clear conscience, sit down here, in mere dependence. It would be
                  wrong."
               "But, my dear child, I have enough and to spare. I do not feel your support a
                  burden. To provide a home for my brother's children I look upon as a sacred
                  privilege. Do not deprive me of the sweet delight it affords me."
               This appeal touched the heart of Mary, and brought from her eyes pure drops of
                  feeling.
               "I know, my dear uncle," she said, "that it will give you pleasure to have me stay
                  with you, and pain to depart. But can I secure a good conscience, life's best
                  blessing, if I do not follow the clear dictates of right?"
               "You cannot, certainly."
               "Then I must leave my present position of dependence, and provide, by my own
                  labor, the means of support. It is, I can plainly see, the duty of every one to
                  engage in some useful employment. While our father lived, my sister and I kept his
                  house, and made up for him a home circle. We were necessary to his happiness; and
                  he was our natural provider and protector. Our sphere of action was at home—our
                  duties lay there. But it is different now. Upon you we have no natural claim. Your
                  home circle is formed. We are not necessary to your happiness, and only remain
                  here as partakers of your bounty. This is the plain light in which I view it, and
                  you must acknowledge it to be the true light."
               Mr. Hendee used various arguments to convince Mary that she was wrong to throw
                  herself as she proposed, upon her own resources; but his arguments were weak when
                  opposed to her common sense conviction, and clear perceptions of what was right.
                  Jane, when she found that Mary had been declaring to her uncle and aunt the views
                  she had previously expressed to her; and not only that, but was bent on acting
                  them out, was much incensed, and strove hard to divert her from what seemed to her
                  mind a most insane act. But, as might well be supposed, her opposition had no
                  effect. Mary was not governed by any impulse, or whim, but by deeply fixed
                  principles. When Mr. and Mrs. Hendee found that neither argument nor persuasion
                  could move the honest-hearted girl from her purpose, they begged that she would,
                  at least, make their house her home, if she did not solely depend upon them.
               "I will, on one consideration," was her half smiling, yet earnest reply.
               "Name it," said Mr. Hendee.
               "That I be allowed to become my cousins' instructor in music, so long as you think me competent to give
                  them lessons."
               "It shall be as you desire."
               The prompt acceptance of this proposition brought the tears to Mary's eyes.
               "From my heart, I thank you," she said, with emotion. "I do not want to go from
                  under your protection. Here I will be happier than anywhere else, for I shall be
                  with those I love most and prize highest in the world."
               Just about this time an advertisement appeared in the newspapers for a lady to
                  take the situation of music teacher in a well known seminary. At Mary's earnest
                  request, Mr. Hendee made application for, and was successful in obtaining the
                  place for her. She entered cheerfully upon the duties of this new position, and
                  discharged them with energy and ability. It required the devotion of four hours
                  each day in order to do justice to the classes placed under her care. At home, she
                  gave two or three hours every day to the music of her cousins, and with marked
                  evidences of success. Besides this, many hours were spent in practice and study,
                  in order to increase her ability for the duties she had voluntarily assumed.
               Mary's choice did not fail to have the effect which her uncle and aunt had
                  predicted. It quickly became known that she was only a teacher in Madame Lacroix's
                  seminary. The young ladies, who had before been on terms of intimacy with her,
                  finding that she was the instructress of their younger sisters, began to grow cold
                  towards her, and numbers failed to recognize her in the street. This was a severe
                  trial to her young spirit; but conscious rectitude of purpose sustained her. She
                  had put her hands to the plough, and could not look back. What grieved her most,
                  was the unkindness of Jane. Mary's conduct affected her sister in two ways. In the
                  first place, it detracted from her standing in the eyes of many, and, in the
                  second place, it was a daily rebuke of her want of the same honest independence.
                  In her aunt and uncle, however, the heroic girl found unchanging friends. They not
                  only admired her for her excellence of character, but loved her for the sweetness
                  of her disposition. Not without pain did they perceive that all their fears in
                  regard to the consequences of her independent course, were becoming daily
                  realized. Gradually, even the most intimate of Mary's young friends were ceasing
                  to visit her, and when she ventured with the family into company, she was
                  neglected except by a very few. The consequence was, that before six months had
                  elapsed, Mary Wells was rarely seen beyond the walls of the seminary in which she
                  taught, and the sweet seclusion of home. Her sister rarely asked her to accompany
                  her when she went out, and never spoke of her to any one, unless she were
                  specially asked for. By the end of a year, none would have thought that the gay
                  girl who daily went forth to make fashionable calls upon fashionable friends, and
                  the quiet, thoughtful maiden modestly attired, who regularly left the house of Mr.
                  Hendee and came back at stated hours, were sisters.
               Things went on in this way for about two years, by which time Mary was pretty well
                  forgotten in her old circle of friends. Within that time the members of the circle
                  had changed materially. New faces were to be seen, and many old faces were
                  missing. Among the new-comers was a young man who had returned from college a year
                  before, and who had immediately entered into business with his father, a merchant
                  of wealth and standing. His name was Cleveland. Young Cleveland had been educated
                  with great care by his father, who was a man of independent feelings, and sound
                  views of life. As his son grew up, he carefully instilled into his mind a love of
                  truth for its own sake, and taught him to estimate all things by intrinsic worth,
                  rather than fictitious appearances. As Hartly Cleveland emerged from youth into
                  early manhood, that most critical period in life, his father had the gratification
                  of seeing in him a realization of his most ardent wishes. The principles taught
                  him had been deeply planted, and they had sprung up, and produced good fruits.
               This young man met Jane Wells frequently in company, and found himself becoming
                  more and more prepossessed in her favor the oftener he saw her. Almost
                  involuntarily he paid her more than ordinary attentions, which were far from being
                  unpleasing to her. After some months, he would occasionally call in at Mr.
                  Hendee's and spend an evening with her. Whenever he did so, if Mary happened to be
                  in the parlor, she would immediately retire; always without being introduced, for
                  it had never occurred that her uncle or aunt was present when Mr. Cleveland first
                  came in, and Jane would have thought it an egregious folly to introduce her sister
                  to any of her fashionable friends.
               The attentions of Hartly Cleveland soon stirred into inquietude the bosom of Jane
                  Wells. There was everything about him to interest the heart of a maiden. He was
                  handsome in person, his taste highly cultivated, his mind richly stored, his
                  principles firmly based, and with all, he belonged to a respectable and wealthy
                  family. No wonder that Jane could not withstand such attractions.
               It was not long, before the young man became more marked in his attentions. He
                  called at Mr. Hendee's at least once
                  every week, and regularly accompanied Jane to all the concerts and fashionable
                  amusements of the season. One evening he came in and found no one in the parlor
                  but Mary. Jane was dressing to go out with him to a concert. Mary's first impulse
                  was to retire, but she felt that this it would not be polite to do. She therefore
                  remained; but did not feel free to make any remarks. This she had no need to do,
                  for Mr. Cleveland readily introduced subjects of conversation, and drew her forth
                  to speak. At first she did so with a reluctant timidity; but what she said
                  inspired the young man with a wish to penetrate deeper into her mind.
                  Unconsciously to herself, he led her out, and induced her to give her views on
                  many subjects, which she did with a beauty of expression, and a clearness of
                  thought that charmed him. In the midst of this Jane came in, all ready to walk,
                  and Mary glided from the room, with a strange warmth and tremulousness in her
                  bosom. It was nearly two years since she had spent ten minutes in conversation
                  with a young man of intelligence and winning manners. The sensation was to her new
                  and pleasing. A new chord was awakened in her heart, that was not inclined to
                  sleep again.
               She retired to her room, and took up a favorite volume. But she could not
                  comprehend the words of the author. Her thoughts returned to the parlor, and to
                  the interesting young stranger with whom she had passed a quarter of an hour of
                  most delightful conversation. At length she became conscious of the folly she was
                  committing in thus allowing this little incident to make so deep an impression
                  upon her. She strove to shut out from her mind the image of Mr. Cleveland, but in
                  vain. She still saw his fine, animated face; his voice still sounded in her ears,
                  and the sentiment he had uttered still lived in her recollection.
               "What young lady is that with whom I was conversing, when you came down?" young
                  Cleveland asked of Jane, as soon as they had left the house.
               "She gives lessons in music to my cousins," was answered, after a moment's
                  hesitation.
               "Ah!" was Cleveland's only reply; there was disappointment in the tone of his
                  voice.
               Three weeks elapsed, during which both the young man and Mary found it very
                  difficult to keep from thinking about each other. He had called several times to
                  see Jane, with the secret hope in his mind of again meeting the interesting young
                  music teacher. But she did not happen to be present. At last, however, he could
                  not conceal from himself the pleasure he felt, on being shown into the parlor, and
                  finding no one there but Mary. Instinctively, she arose, and made a movement to
                  leave the room. Jane had spoken ken rather sharply to her for her former
                  indiscreet act, as she called it.
               "You will not leave me here alone," Cleveland said, in a respectful, half-familiar
                  voice.
               Mary paused, and resumed her seat, her heart beating with a quick irregular
                  motion. The conversation which the young man had previously held with her, gave
                  him some idea of the character of her mind, and guided him at once into the
                  selection of suitable themes. He soon succeeded in again drawing her out into an
                  expression of her opinions upon the topics under review, which she did with a
                  soundness of thought and a beauty of expression that again charmed him. "Can this
                  be only a music teacher?" he could not help asking himself. It so happened, that
                  the servant who admitted Mr. Cleveland, mistook Mary, who was in the parlor, for
                  Jane, and therefore did not go up to the room of the latter to notify her that
                  there was a visitor below. On this account, Cleveland and Mary spent full half an
                  hour together, when the latter, recollecting herself, said,
               "The servant must have omitted to inform Jane that you were here."
               As she spoke, she arose quickly and left the room. In a few moments Jane entered
                  the parlor, and apologized for having kept him waiting, on the ground that she had
                  not been informed of his presence.
               "As some compensation," he replied, "I have been quite agreeably entertained by
                  this young music teacher you have in the family. She seems as shy as a fawn, and I
                  had almost to compel her to remain in the parlor. But, when she had forgotten
                  herself, she proved to be a most interesting companion. She cannot, certainly, be
                  moving in that sphere for which education and taste have fitted her."
               To this Jane made some evasive reply. Her manner of doing so was noticed by
                  Cleveland, who did not altogether like it. It implied contempt for the interesting
                  girl, who, as he supposed, held, in the family, the subordinate position of an
                  instructor in music. From that moment, the charm that had been thrown around Jane
                  Wells, gradually passed away. As it did so, the image of the quiet, intelligent,
                  refined, and delicate stranger he had met at Mr. Hendee's, took a more distinct
                  and permanent place in his mind. "Who is she?" "What is she?" were questions often
                  asked. Though he called, nearly as often as before, upon Jane, it was really with
                  the hope of again falling in with the music teacher. But this fortunate occurrence
                  did not again happen.
               One evening he met Mr. Hendee in the parlor, alone. The ardent desire he felt to
                  learn something certain about the individual who had interested rested him, caused him to say, during a pause in
                  the conversation,—
               "Pardon me, Mr. Hendee, for the seeming intrusiveness of the question I am about
                  to ask. You have a young lady in your family, employed as music teacher—?"
               "Excuse me, Mr. Cleveland," Mr. Hendee said, interrupting him,—"but you are under
                  some mistake. There is no such person in my family as you allude to."
               Cleveland looked confounded.
               "I certainly must be under some mistake, then," he replied. "But I have twice met
                  in the parlor a very interesting young lady who is, as I have understood, an
                  instructor of music to your children."
               "Oh! you mean my niece," Mr. Hendee said, with a smile.
               "Your niece?"
               "Yes. Mary Wells, the sister of Jane. I thought you knew her."
               "No, sir," was the grave reply. "I have twice fallen in with her by accident. Then
                  as soon as any one entered the parlor, she glided away. No one introduced her to
                  me."
               "Not even her sister?"
               "No."
               Mr. Hendee looked upon the floor thoughtfully.
               "Why does she keep herself so secluded?" at length asked young Cleveland. "She is
                  certainly fitted to shine in any circle."
               "That she is. A lovelier girl I have never seen. But it is her real worth that
                  excludes her. Society, as it is now constituted, is not worthy of so noble minded
                  a creature."
               "Your words puzzle me," the young man said.
               "I will then give you fully her history, and let you judge her by the best and
                  truest standard—her own life as it stands forth in Doric beauty."
               Mr. Hendee then related, with the warmth his deep admiration of her virtues, gave
                  to his words and manner, the noble conduct of Mary Wells. Mr. Cleveland listened
                  with intense admiration.
               "Noble girl!" he exclaimed, as soon as the narrative had been finished.
               "Yes, she is nobleness itself," was the earnest response of the uncle.
               "May I beg to be introduced to one for whom I now feel a respect amounting almost
                  to reverence?" asked the young man.
               The bell was rung, and a servant entered.
               "Tell Mary that I wish to see her in the parlor."
               The servant left the room, and in a few moments Mary entered, dressed in a simple
                  but neat attire.
               "Come, my dear, let me introduce you to my excellent young friend Mr. Cleveland,"
                  Mr. Hendee said, taking Mary's hand, and leading her forward.
               The color deepened on Mary's cheek when she met the steady, admiring gaze of the
                  young man, but her self-possession remained.
               "My niece excludes herself far too much. She is 'o'er modest, worth's peculiar
                  fault,' as Goldsmith, I believe, has it," Mr. Hendee added, as Mary took a seat on
                  the sofa.
               At that moment Jane entered and came forward. Mr. Cleveland met her with a manner
                  much more formal than usual. She was no longer beautiful or interesting in his
                  eyes. The superior loveliness of Mary had altogether eclipsed her. The surprise
                  and displeasure she felt at seeing Mary in the parlor, and in conversation with
                  Mr. Cleveland, tended in no way to give additional charms to those already
                  surrounding her. He saw clearly her state of mind; and it took away all the
                  admiration, and even warmer feelings, he had ever felt for her.
               Encouraged by her uncle, and led on to converse by the admiring young man, Mary
                  shone through the evening with a lustre that surprised, while it delighted Mr.
                  Hendee.
               From that time, Cleveland became a lover. He would not listen to Mary's remaining
                  any longer in seclusion, and much against her will, almost compelled her to
                  accompany him to a large ball, gotten up by the exclusives. She dressed herself in
                  pure white, and presented a sweet contrast with the gaudily attired belles who
                  flaunted about, and sought the admiration she unconsciously won.
               "What lovely creature is that on the arm of Cleveland?" asked a young man, coming
                  up to his sister, who was among a bevy of half a dozen young girls.
               "Where? Who?"
               "Look! Don't you see—near that pillar."
               "Oh! yes. That? Why, as I live, that is Mary Wells, my old music teacher! What in
                  the world is she doing here, and with Hartly Cleveland? He cannot know the company
                  he is keeping."
               This little bit of news quickly spread through the company, and Cleveland soon
                  found both himself and Mary the subject of observation and remark. And not only
                  so; but actually proscribed—for, in endeavoring to make up a cotillion in which he
                  proposed to dance with Mary, the attempt failed, only two or three couples
                  consenting to take the floor.
               Deeply incensed at this, he withdrew from the room with Mary Wells, and left the
                  house. Jane was also at the ball, and saw all this—not without a feeling of
                  pleasure, for now she hoped to regain the attentions she had lost. But she was in
                  error. On the way home, Cleveland offered Mary his hand; which, after reflection
                  and consultation with her uncle and aunt, she accepted.
               
               The wedding party was the largest and most brilliant that had been given for two
                  or three years. The young ladies who had refused to dance a cotillion with the
                  music teacher, some how or other, forgot the circumstance, and caressed the bride
                  most affectionately. Even Jane could begin to see her real worth, now that it was
                  perceived and acknowledged by others.
               The true history of Mary became a subject of general conversation, and those who
                  had looked down upon her as an humble music teacher, now that her real character
                  was seen, lauded her conduct to the skies. We can admire and love virtuous
                  self-denial in others, though we have not the moral courage to go through the
                  trying ordeal ourselves.
            
            
               THE UNHAPPY WIFE.
               BY T. S. ARTHUR.
               "YOU don't seem happy, Margaret," said Mr. Jones to his wife, in a kind voice,
                  seating himself, as he spoke, beside his dejected-looking partner, whom he found
                  upon the sofa in the parlor. He had just returned from his store, in the evening,
                  after a day of more than usual business anxiety.
               Tears came into the eyes of Mrs. Jones. But she made no reply.
               "Has any thing happened to give you pain?" asked the husband, in the same kind
                  voice.
               But there was no answer. The fact was, Mrs. Jones could not answer the question,
                  for although she felt very unhappy, she did not know from whence her unhappiness
                  proceeded. Her silence, while it convinced Mr. Jones that nothing more than usual
                  had occurred to distress his wife, had the effect to oppress his own feelings with
                  a heavy weight. He understood that she had fallen into one of her melancholy
                  states, the cause of which he had yet been unable to determine, and for which he
                  had not, of course, found any remedy.
               A shadow fell gloomily over the feelings of Mr. Jones. He, in turn, became silent
                  and depressed. During the whole day his mind had been more than usually anxious in
                  regard to his business. Heavy payments were maturing fast, while the funds for
                  meeting his obligations came in with unusual tardiness. This had disturbed his
                  thoughts a good deal. But when he left his store in the evening, like a wise man,
                  he left his cares behind him, and looked toward home with the pleasing expectation
                  of there finding that sweet repose of mind which he so much needed. As has been
                  seen, in this he was doomed to be disappointed. Mrs. Jones had fallen into one of
                  her periodical fits of melancholy, for which no cause was apparent to his mind,
                  and which, for this very reason, distressed him the more. Ten years' experience
                  had satisfied him that, when in this unhappy state, it was useless to make any
                  effort to lift her out of it. Heretofore, every such effort had been perfectly
                  futile. Like an attack of measles, it had its incipient stage, its climax, and its decline. Medicines seemed rather to
                  exacerbate than palliate the symptoms, and, therefore, like a wise physician, he
                  chose rather to keep away, as far as possible, all exciting causes, and let the
                  disease run its course.
               The evening meal was passed in perfect silence. After it was over, Mr. Jones
                  thought of asking his wife to go with him to hear a celebrated singer, who gave a
                  concert that night. But, satisfied, from former experience, that "no" would be
                  answered to his proposition, he wisely forebore doing so.
               On the next morning, as Mr. Jones had expected, his wife did not rise. He asked,
                  as in duty bound, how she felt?—if she were sick?—what he should get for her?
                  etc., but received, as usual in such cases, no reply. He sat down to breakfast
                  with his children; poured out the coffee for them, and attended to their wants at
                  the table. He ate but a few mouthfuls himself. After giving directions to the cook
                  about dinner, he went to his store with a heavy heart. Mr. Jones loved his wife.
                  To see her unhappy, always oppressed his feelings. But, to see her unhappy without
                  any knowledge of the cause, made him wretched.
               Throughout that day it seemed as if every event was of a nature calculated to
                  disturb the mind of Mr. Jones. At dinner time his wife, in accordance with his
                  expectations, was in bed. He spoke to her kindly, but received no answer. This did
                  not surprise him. He had looked for nothing else. The evening brought no change.
                  Mrs. Jones was still in bed. The small portion of her face that could be seen
                  above the pillow in which it was buried, did not make the husband very desirous of
                  seeing more. That sample was enough to give him a very fair idea of the character
                  of her whole countenance. After tea, everything being so still and gloomy at home,
                  Mr. Jones went to a public house, where he drank a glass of ale, smoked a cigar,
                  and talked politics for a couple of hours. He then came home and retired for the
                  night.
               Not until the afternoon of the next day, did Mrs. Jones leave her bed. When her
                  husband came home to tea, he found her, much to his satisfaction, in the
                  dining-room. But he said nothing. The disease had reached its highest point and
                  was now on the decline. He was content to let it go off in due course, because he
                  knew very well, that any attempt on his part to hasten its departure, would only
                  retard that anxiously looked for event.
               A day or two more, and all was again sunshine in Mr. Jones' dwelling. His wife
                  went singing about as gaily as a bird.
               "If it were only always so," sighed Mr. Jones to himself, "I would be the happiest
                  man in existence. But where can lie the cause of these unhappy periods? Something
                  is wrong. What can it be?"
               To determine this question was, however, beyond the power of Mr. Jones. He could
                  imagine no adequate cause.
               "I think, dear," said his wife to him, one day, "that we should be a great deal
                  happier in the country. I know it would be better for the children. Poor little
                  things! They are so confined here. There we should have pure air and freedom.
                  Instead of hot brick walls and filthy streets, we should have open fields, with
                  trees, and flowers, and the sweet breath of Heaven. Oh, it would be delightful! I
                  am sure I should be the happiest creature in the world."
               The idea of making his wife happy was sufficient to give almost any proposition a
                  favorable aspect in the eyes of Mr. Jones. He was not himself fond of the country.
                  Raised in a city from boyhood, his habits were formed for city life. His business,
                  too, required him to be every day in town. Still, if it would make Margaret happy,
                  that was sufficient to gain his approval. A pleasant house, with a garden and
                  several acres of good land surrounding it, was rented, and his family removed to
                  the country.
               "Oh, this is delightful!" exclaimed Mrs. Jones, on alighting from the carriage
                  that had conveyed her husband, herself and children to their new home, to which
                  all the furniture had been removed and arranged by a competent person, while Mrs.
                  Jones and her little ones remained for a couple of days at the house of a friend
                  in the city. "I shall be as happy here as the day is long. How sweet the odor of
                  that new hay! How rich these beds of flowers! How spirit-stirring the song of
                  birds! How soothing the low hum of bees! This is indeed life! Who would be content
                  to live in a pent up city?"
               "It's pleasant, certainly," returned Mr. Jones, in a more quiet way. And it was
                  pleasant to him. He perceived and enjoyed all the things to which his wife had
                  alluded. They soothed his care-worn spirit, and refreshed his senses.
               For a few days, Mrs. Jones was really happy. But she was the same woman as before.
                  The causes of disquiet were internal and not external. In leaving the city, she
                  could not get away from herself. Change of scene did not change the causes of
                  unrest that lay hidden in her own bosom. After awhile she ceased to perceive the
                  sweet odors that were borne upon the air. The warblings of merry songsters were
                  unheard. The flowers, Spring's lovely children, were unseen. She grew lonely, and
                  sighed for companionship.
               With a sad heart, the husband soon saw that a country life was not the specific
                  for his wife's malady. All doubts on
                  this head were removed at the end of a month, when she had an attack of
                  melancholy, and kept her bed for a week. Her wish to return to the city in the
                  fall was not opposed by Mr. Jones. He preferred a town to a country life, although
                  he had not said so.
               As before, every few weeks Mrs. Jones would sink into a gloomy state, and remain
                  so for several days; and, as before, the cause was altogether hidden from her
                  husband. He was careful that she should be burdened as little as possible. He
                  employed a waiter about the house; and permitted her to keep a nurse, a
                  chambermaid, a seamstress and a cook. Every want she expressed was gratified, and
                  much anticipated. But, instead of improving, Mrs. Jones grew worse and worse. It
                  seemed as if the more of external good she possessed the less she enjoyed.
               In the hope of diverting her mind, Mr. Jones took her during the winter to many
                  places of fashionable resort and amusement: such as assemblies, concerts, the
                  theatre, etc. He also encouraged her to give a large party, which laid her under a
                  kind of obligation to attend such as were given by any who had been her own
                  guests. In this way the season passed amid a gay round of festivity and amusement,
                  into which Mrs. Jones entered with a keen zest. Her husband had never seen her so
                  full of life before. Two months had passed, and not once during that time had she
                  felt depressed in spirits. Mr. Jones was much encouraged. It was evident, to his
                  mind, that it was plenty of society that his wife wanted: and this he meant to see
                  was provided for her.
               Towards spring, as fashionable assemblies became less and less frequent, Mr. Jones
                  could see that old states were returning upon his wife. He would often find her,
                  on returning home, sitting by herself, with a dreamy, absent look in her eyes. How
                  to meet such states in their incipiency and throw them off, he did not certainly
                  know. Sometimes he would propose going out to see a friend, or a visit to the
                  theatre. But these propositions were rarely accepted. Occasionally he could get
                  her interested in the future prospects of their children; especially of Helen,
                  their oldest girl, now between eight and nine years of age. But his resources were
                  small, and even they not skillfully brought into action.
               The fact was, Mr. Jones was a merchant in feeling as well as by profession. In
                  other words, Mr. Jones took but little interest in any thing that did not pertain
                  to business. A poor boy, with few opportunities for the improvement of his mind,
                  he was placed at an early age in a store. Intelligent and industrious, and,
                  withal, ambitious tious to rise, he soon made himself of value to his employers.
                  Little beyond the sphere of trade approached his mind near enough to affect it
                  with any permanent interest. Books were resorted to but rarely. His reading was
                  confined mainly to the newspapers, and the topics that took hold upon his mind
                  were those connected with politics, and the passing events of the day. For a year
                  or two after having attained his majority, he remained in the store where he had
                  served his time. Then he commenced business in connexion with a young man who had
                  a good cash capital, and credit to a large amount whenever it was needed. This
                  young man was the son of a wealthy merchant who had become such by his own
                  vigorous exertions. But, like too many similarly situated, he was content to have
                  his children educated entirely at schools, seminaries, and colleges. He did not
                  bring them occasionally in contact with real life, early, and let them feel its
                  peculiar strong tendencies, standing beside them as he did so, and guarding and
                  guiding their young minds into the truth made indelible by feeling experience. The
                  consequence was, that, when they did enter upon life, at the age of moral
                  responsibility, the whole world was new to them. When they did take the rudder
                  into their own hands, they knew nothing of the stream down which they were
                  gliding. All was yet to be learned.
               The partner of Mr. Jones had a sister named Margaret, a girl of fine taste, and
                  good education. She had remained at school until her eighteenth year. During the
                  last year of her school-girl days, she contracted an intimate friendship with a
                  young lady of her own age, with whom nearly all her time not occupied in study was
                  spent. Both were fond of reading, and, as might be expected, works of imagination.
                  They not only read these together, but talked together of their contents and of
                  their own bright future, made brighter by their fond fancies. To them the world
                  into which they were entering was full of all their hearts could wish. In the most
                  perfect sympathy with each other, did that last year of girlhood pass. Purely and
                  fervently did they love each other, and their love made them happy.
               Margaret left school and returned home about the period at which her brother
                  entered into business with Mr. Jones. The first time she met that individual, she
                  thought him the dullest creature she had ever seen, and did not hesitate to laugh
                  outright as soon as he had departed. Her brother mildly chid her, but this only
                  provoked greater merriment, and caused her to launch against him sundry keen
                  shafts of ridicule. Her estimation of Mr. Jones did not change much during the first year. In that time she met him
                  occasionally, and as she knew him better, could perceive his good qualities.
                  Still, her beau ideal of a young man was so different from Thomas Jones, that the
                  mental contrast always produced a merry peal of laughter.
               For Mr. Jones to meet Margaret frequently was to love her. Before a year rolled
                  round, he felt that his happiness depended upon his being able to secure both
                  heart and hand of the lovely girl. He had observed enough to satisfy him that
                  Margaret did not look upon him with a very favorable eye, and that, sometimes, it
                  was hard work for her to treat him with civility. But, "faint heart never won fair
                  lady," was his motto. He determined to lay a siege, trusting to patient
                  perseverance for the accomplishment of his end.
               He was successful—but the siege was a long one, and vigorously prosecuted. When
                  the fair one at length yielded, it was not with a joyous impulse, but was rather a
                  compromise with her objections. She would not have chosen Mr. Jones, but she did
                  not see how she could longer refuse him. And so they were married. He made her a
                  kind, devoted husband, for he loved her fervently. But there was little in his
                  mind that she could love, and hers became not, therefore, a mirror in which his
                  thoughts were reflected. There did not take place that interior conjunction of
                  mind and heart, from which, and from which alone, comes happiness in marriage. As
                  far as he was concerned, the lack of this was made up by the abstraction of his
                  thoughts in business. He had a defined pursuit in life, and this absorbed the
                  larger portion of his time. Not so his wife. She had nothing upon which to fix
                  steadily her mind. In her household she had little care; everything was delegated
                  to others. There was a domestic to fill every department. She had, therefore,
                  plenty of leisure, in which thought, instead of going out in pursuit of the means
                  for the attainment of ends, could turn back, and corrode like a canker her own
                  bosom. The daily return of her husband was not looked for with the interest that
                  return would have excited, had he been a man of cultivated taste, and with habits
                  of mind at all congenial with her own. The genuine warmth of his manner always
                  made, however, his return pleasant—always awakened a glow of pleasure in her
                  heart.
               From this brief history, the reader will be able, for himself, to determine, to
                  some extent, the cause of Mrs. Jones' periodical fits of despondency. They showed
                  themselves, at first, only in states of pensive abstraction of mind, that remained
                  for a few days, and then passed off. Gradually, they became more and more defined,
                  until they arrived at the stage already described.
               And now we will resume the broken thread of our narrative. As spring advanced,
                  Mrs. Jones relapsed into her old states of melancholy. Her husband became really
                  discouraged. It seemed to him that his wife could have no real love for either
                  himself or her children. If so, why indulge such wretched feelings while she had
                  them to minister to and make happy? Five years before, he had dissolved his
                  connexion with her brother, and was now acting alone. Her father had been dead
                  three years. He left her a fortune of forty thousand dollars. Most of this was in
                  her husband's business. This business, in spite of Mr. Jones' most devoted
                  efforts, had been falling into embarrassment for some time, in consequence of
                  over-trading and heavy losses. He had, therefore, anxious care through the day,
                  and often the most wretched feelings when he came home at night, and found his
                  wife in one of her gloomy conditions.
               Spring passed away, and summer came.
               "Mr. and Mrs. Lorman are going to make the tour of the Lakes this summer," Mrs.
                  Jones said to her husband one evening. "I should dearly love to be of the party,
                  if you could leave your business."
               Mr. Jones could not well be absent. But nothing of this was intimated. He was so
                  much concerned on his wife's account, that he was willing to submit to any
                  sacrifice to meet an expressed desire. Making hasty, and consequently, imperfect
                  arrangements, to leave his business, Mr. Jones declared himself ready to accompany
                  his wife in the proposed tour. They started, in company with Mr. and Mrs. Lorman,
                  taking with them their oldest child. After spending a week at Saratoga, the party
                  went to the Falls of Niagara. From Buffalo, after another week, they embarked for
                  Chicago. Thence they passed over to St. Louis, and down the river to the mouth of
                  the Ohio. Louisville, Cincinnati, Wheeling and Pittsburg, came next in their
                  route, as they turned their faces homeward. Three days' journey in stage,
                  rail-road and steamboat, brought them to the place from which they had started,
                  all glad to get back, but none more so than Mrs. Jones. She had felt miserable for
                  a week. For three days she had not spoken to any one, not even so much as replying
                  to her husband's oft-repeated question, if there was nothing that he could get or
                  do for her. At Saratoga, Mrs. Jones had enjoyed herself wonderfully. The visit to
                  Niagara was also delightful. But the first day's sail on the lake made her sick,
                  and she was not able to hold up her head until their arrival at Chicago. The
                  journey from thence to St. Louis had no attractions tractions. For the first day, on leaving St. Louis,
                  the river scenery interested her, but she tired of its sameness after that. From
                  the mouth of the Ohio to Pittsburg, but little had a charm for her eye, that, for
                  a greater portion of the time, although it looked abroad, took intelligent
                  observation of nothing. The retina was impressed, but the mind perceived it not.
                  From the time of leaving Pittsburg till their arrival at home, her spirits were
                  down to the lowest ebb.
               Poor Mr. Jones was in despair If this state of things continued he did not know
                  how soon his wife's malady would take a permanent form in a confirmed mental
                  derangement. But an inspection of his business on arriving at home, gave him other
                  and more absorbing causes of concern. His paper had been dishonored, and his
                  credit, in consequence, so severely shocked, that he found himself in imminent
                  danger of ruin. Business had been suspended until his return, which would have
                  taken place weeks before, had not his letters failed to reach him. A few days of
                  anxious investigation, revealed to the trembling merchant the dreaded truth, that
                  he was a ruined man. A meeting of creditors was called, and an assignment made of
                  all his effects.
               During the progress of these distressing events, Mr. Jones had not been able to
                  summon sufficient courage to disclose the truth to his wife. For days after their
                  return, she had been too much depressed in feeling—too really wretched—to notice
                  the dark shadow that rested upon her husband's face. Her attention was first
                  directed to him by noticing one night that he walked the floor of their chamber in
                  evident agitation of mind, for more than an hour after his usual time for
                  retiring. Her thoughts once fixed upon an object out of herself, and that object
                  her husband in apparent distress, her own undefined and undefinable state of
                  dreamy wretchedness began to subside.
               In the morning, her first thoughts were of her husband. He had already arisen,
                  when she awoke, and left the chamber. For three days she had not met the family at
                  table. The thought of this, connected with the remembrance of her husband's
                  agitation, too plainly exhibited on the night before, quickened her conscience as
                  by a painful sting. She had never before seen him so moved; for he had always
                  carefully striven to conceal from her whatever trouble and anxiety he might
                  feel.
               Arising quickly and dressing herself, Mrs. Jones went to the nursery to look at
                  the children, her first visit to them for three days. The little things crowded
                  around her, climbing up into her lap, twining their arms around her neck, and
                  kissing, with childish fondness, her cheeks, lips, and forehead. Her bosom
                  throbbed with a warm impulse of delight. She remained with them until the
                  breakfast bell was rung, and then joined her husband at the table. He lifted his
                  eyes to her face as she entered, and smiled faintly. Her heart bounded with a
                  quick throb the moment she saw the expression of his countenance. To her a
                  dreadful change had passed over it. His brow, ever so smooth and calm, was heavy
                  and corrugated, as by intense, anxious thought;—his lips were compressed to half
                  their ordinary volume—and his eyes had a strange, fixed, troubled expression. He
                  ate only a few mouthfuls, and then left the table and retired from the house,
                  seeming to be altogether unconscious of the presence of any one.
               "Mercy! what can have happened?" ejaculated Mrs. Jones, rising involuntarily and
                  leaving the breakfast room with two of the children seated at the table. Until
                  dinner time, she had not thought but for her husband. He was evidently in deep
                  trouble, and that awakened all her sympathies. He was nothing changed in
                  appearance when he came home at dinner time. She spoke to him in a kind voice, and
                  he looked up in evident surprise.
               "What is the matter, husband?" she asked, laying her hand tenderly upon his arm,
                  and looking him with anxious interest in the face.
               There was something so affectionate and earnest in his wife's manner, that Mr.
                  Jones was taken by surprise. He replied, without time for reflection:
               "I am a ruined man, Margaret! But, were it not for you and the children, I would
                  not care."
               "Ruined! Ruined!" murmured Mrs. Jones, in a bewildered manner. "How? What?"
               "During our Northern and Western tour, my business became embarrassed, and some of
                  my paper became dishonored. It was too late, when I returned, to repair the
                  injury. There was nothing left me but to call a meeting of my creditors, and
                  assign all my effects into the hands of trustees. This latter is now about being
                  done. I shall come out a ruined man; but still, with a fair character, unbroken
                  spirits, and a knowledge of business that will, I trust, put me on my feet again
                  in a few years."
               "Then why despond?" asked Mrs. Jones, in a tone of confidence.
               Her husband started, and looked her in the face for a moment, doubting if he had
                  heard aright.
               "I only despond for your sake," he replied, after a short pause.
               "And why for my sake?"
               "You will not be able to bear the
                  change. All this elegance and luxury, and ease, will pass away, Margaret." His
                  voice trembled. "Ah! my poor wife! I fear that you will not be able to bear
                  it."
               "All we have possessed has, at least, not made me happy," the wife returned. Her
                  voice trembled likewise, and was low and somewhat plaintive. Her feelings shrunk
                  instinctively at the change her husband had predicted. But she felt a new love
                  for, and a new confidence in him, blended with something of that heroic spirit
                  which sustains a wife amid the severest trials.
               "Margaret!" said the husband at length, in a firm voice, "can you stand up bravely
                  by my side in this trial? Will your love for me keep you up? Can you forsake all
                  for the sake of your husband and children?"
               "Try me!" was the firm reply.
               "I will!"
               "And you shall not be disappointed," she returned, leaning her head against his
                  bosom.
               From that moment Mr. Jones had a cheerful, confident spirit. He passed through the
                  trying ordeal of giving everything into the hands of his creditors, without once
                  flinching. He had feared for his wife, when she should be called upon to abandon
                  the luxury and elegance to which she had always been used. But he did not know
                  what was in her. Ease had suffered the rust to accumulate upon her real internal
                  character. But the stroke of misfortune's hammer had shivered off the dimming
                  scales, and now she stood forth in the brightness of a woman's true nature.
               They had three children, the youngest but two years old at the time the event
                  occurred.
               "We shall have to give up our waiter," Mr. Jones said, when they were prepared to
                  move into a small house, far away from the fashionable neighborhood in which they
                  had for years lived.
               "Of course," was promptly replied. "And the nurse also. I must now take the entire
                  charge of my children."
               "But, I am afraid it will be too much for you."
               "Do you think we can afford to keep three servants?"
               "I do not," Mr. Jones said. "I shall enter again into my business. But it will be
                  in a small way, and without capital. Our income will be limited."
               "That settles the matter at once. I must be my own nurse. I have been thinking
                  seriously over this matter for some time, and it seems to me clearly wrong for any
                  woman to delegate her duties so fully as I have done. Perhaps," and her voice
                  faltered, "all this trouble has been sent upon us that I might be made to see and
                  do my duty as a woman and mother. You are called upon to suffer for my
                  supineness."
               In a few weeks they were settled down quietly in their new home. Mrs. Jones found
                  enough to do for her husband and children, to keep head and hands both in constant
                  occupation. She had no time for lowness of spirits—and, in fact, no cause. Her
                  malady had arisen from a want of active interest in others. This she now had. Her
                  body was often wearied, but duties well done left behind them a cheerful spirit.
                  Mr. Jones found that it was as much as he could do to meet the expense of his
                  family. His children were growing up, and it cost no small sum to educate them.
                  His wife was, in consequence, not suffered to relax in her efforts. And this was
                  well for her. Constant occupation, and her portion of this world's cares and
                  anxieties, were the medicaments her case required. When freely administered, they
                  proved fully efficacious.
               THE END.
            
         
      
      
         
            
            T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS.
            THIS CATALOGUES CONTAINS AND DESCRIBES THE MOST POPULAR AND BEST SELLING BOOKS IN THE
               WORLD. The Books will also be found to be the Best and Latest Publications by the
               most Popular and Celebrated Writers in the World. They are also the most Readable and
               Entertaining Books published.
            Suitable for the Parlor, Library, Sitting Room, Railroad, Steamboat, or Soldiers'
               Reading.
            Published and for Sale by T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, Philadelphia. Booksellers
               and News Agents, etc., will be Supplied at very Low Rates.
            Copies of any of Petersons' Publications, or any other work or works Advertised,
               Published, or Noticed by any one at all, in any place, will be sent by us, Free of
               Postage, on receipt of Price.
            TERMS: To those with whom we have no monthly account, Cash with order.
            
               
                  MRS. SOUTHWORTH'S WORKS.
                  Love's Labor Won. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol.,
                     cloth, $1.50.
                  The Gipsy's Prophecy. Complete in two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Mother-in-Law. Complete in two volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Haunted Homestead. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth $1.50.
                  The Lady of the Isle. Complete in two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Two Sisters. Complete in two volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Three Beauties. Complete in two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Vivia, The Secret of Power. Two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  India. The Pearl of Pearl River. Two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or in
                     cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Wife's Victory. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Lost Heiress. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Missing Bride. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  Retribution: A Tale of Passion. Two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Curse of Clifton. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Discarded Daughter. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Deserted Wife. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Jealous Husband. Two volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00; or in one vol.,
                     cloth, for $1.50.
                  Courtship and Matrimony. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Belle of Washington. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Initials. A Love Story. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Kate Aylesford. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Dead Secret. Two Volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Hickory Hall. By Mrs. Southworth. Price 50 cts.
                  The Broken Engagement. Price 25 cents.
               
               
                  MRS. ANN S. STEPHENS' WORKS.
                  The Heiress. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume,
                     cloth, for $1.50.
                  Mary Derwent. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume,
                     cloth, for $1.50.
                  Fashion and Famine. Two volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00; or in one vol.,
                     cloth, $1.50.
                  The Old Homestead. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
               
               
                  CAROLINE LEE HENTZ'S WORKS.
                  The Planter's Northern Bride. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or
                     $1.50 in cloth.
                  Linda. The Young Pilot of the Belle Creole. Price $1.00 in paper in paper;
                     or $1.50 in cloth.
                  Robert Graham. The Sequel to, and Continuation of Linda. Price $1.00 in
                     paper; or $1.50 in cloth.
                  The Lost Daughter. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one
                     vol, cloth, $1.50.
                  Courtship and Marriage. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Rena; or, The Snow Bird. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Marcus Warland. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Love after Marriage. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Planter's Daughter. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Eoline; or, Magnolia Vale. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Banished Son. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  Helen and Arthur. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  Ernest Linwood. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
               
               
                  MRS. HENRY WOOD'S WORKS.
                  The Shadow of Ashlydyat. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., or in one vol., cloth, $1.25.
                  Squire Trevlyn's Heir. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or one
                     vol., cloth, for $1.25.
                  The Castle's Heir. Two vols, octave, paper cover. Price Once Dollar; or in
                     one vol., cloth, for $1.25.
                  Verner's Pride. Two vols., octave, paper cover, Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, for $1.25.
                  We also publish a "Railway Edition" of the above each one in one vol, paper
                     cover. Price One Dollar.
                  The Earl's Heirs. One volume, octave, paper cover. Price Fifty cents. or one
                     vol., cloth, 75 cts.
                  The Mystery. One vol., octavo, paper cover Fifty cents; or bound in one
                     vol., cloth 75 cents.
                  A Life's Secret. One vol., octave, paper cover. Price Fifty cents; or in one
                     vol., cloth, 75 cents.
                  The Channings. One vol., octave, paper cover. Price 75 cents; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.00.
                  Aurora Floyd. One vol., octave, paper cover Price 50 cents; or a finer
                     edition, in cloth, for $1.00.
                  Better for Worse. One volume. Price 50 cents.
                  The Foggy Night at Offord. Price 25 cents.
               
               
                  W. H. MAXWELL'S WORKS.
                  Stories of Waterloo. One of the best books in the English language. One vol.
                     Price Fifty cents.
                  Brian O'Lynn: or. Luck is Everything. Complete in one volume. Price 50
                     cents.
                  Wild Sports in the West. Price 50 cents.
               
               Copies of any of the above Works will be sent by Mail, Free of Postage, on Receipt
                  of the Price.
            
            
               
                  MISS PARDOE'S WORKS.
                  Confessions of a Pretty Woman. By Miss Pardoe. Complete in one large octave
                     volume. Price Fifty cents.
                  The Jealous Wife. By Miss Pardoe. Complete in one large octave volume. Price
                     Fifty cents.
                  The Wife's Trials. By Miss Pardoe. Complete in one large octave volume.
                     Price Fifty cents.
                  The Rival Beauties. By Miss Pardoe. Complete in one large octave volume.
                     Price Fifty cents.
                  Romance of the Harem. By Miss Pardoe. Complete in one large octave volume.
                     Price Fifty cents.
                  Miss Pardoe's Complete Works. This comprises the whole of the above Five
                     works, and are bound in cloth, gilt, in one large octave volume. Price
                     $2.50.
                  The Adopted Heir. By Miss Pardoe. Two vols. paper. Price $1.00; or in one
                     vol., cloth, for $1.50.
               
            
            
               CHARLES DICKENS' WORKS.
               
                  ILLUSTRATED OCTAVO EDITION.
                  Pickwick Papers. One vol., cloth, $2.00
                  Nicholas Nickleby. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Great Expectations. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Lamplighter's Story. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  David Copperfield. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Oliver Twist. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Bleak House. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Little Dorrit. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Dombey and Son. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Sketches by "Boz." One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Barnaby Rudge. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Martin Chuzzlewit. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Old Curiosity Shop. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Christmas Stores. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  Dickens' New Stories. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  A Tale of Two Cities. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  American Notes and Pic Nic Papers. 2.00
                  Price of a set, in Black cloth, in 17 volumes. $32.00
                   " " Full Law Library Style. 43.00
                   " " Half calf, or Half Turkey. 48.00
                   " " Half calf, marbled edges. 50.00
                   " " Half calf, antique. 60.00
                   " " Half calf, full gilt backs, etc. 60.00
               
               
                  PEOPLE'S DUODECIMO EDITION.
                  Pickwick Papers. One vol, cloth. $1.75
                  Nicholas Nickleby. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Great Expectations. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Lamplighter's Story. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  David Copperfield. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Oliver Twist. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Bleak House. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Little Dorrit. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Dombey and Son. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Christmas Stories. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Sketches by "Boz." One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Barnaby Rudge. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Martin Chuzzlewit. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Old Curiosity Shop. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  A Tale of Two Cities. One vol., cloth. 1.75
                  Dickens' New Stories. One vol., cloth. 1.50
                  Dickens' Short Stories. One vol., cloth. 1.50
                  Message from the Sea. One vol., cloth. 1.50
                  Price of a set, in Black cloth, in 17 volumes. $29.00
                   " " Full Law Library style. 35.00
                   " " Half calf, or Half Turkey. 42.00
                   " " Half calf, marbled edges, 44.00
                   " " Half calf, antique. 50.00
                   " " Half calf, full gilt backs, etc. 50.00
                   " " Full calf, antique. 60.00
                   " " Full calf, gilt edges, backs, etc. 60.00
               
            
            
               CHARLES DICKENS' WORKS.
               
                  DUODECIMO ILLUSTRATED EDITION.
                  Pickwick Papers. Two vols., cloth, 3.00
                  A Tale of Two Cities. Two vols., cloth, 3.00
                  Nicholas Nickleby. Two vols., cloth, 3.00
                  David Copperfield. Two vols., cloth, 3.00
                  Oliver Twist. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                  Christmas Stories. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                  Bleak House. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                  Little Dorrit. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                  Dombey and Son. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                  Sketches by "Boz." Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                  Barnaby Rudge. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                  Martin Chuzzlewit. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                  Old Curiosity Shop. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                  Great Expectations. One vol., cloth, 1.75
                  Lamplighter's Story. One vol., cloth, 1.75
                  Dickens' New Stories. One vol., cloth, 1.75
                  Message from the Sea. One vol., cloth, 1.75
                  Price of a set, in Thirty volumes, bound in
                   Black cloth, gilt backs. $45.00
                   " " Full Law Library style. 85.00
                   " " Half calf, antique. 90.00
                   " " Half calf, full gilt back. 90.00
                   " " Full calf, antique. 100.00
                   " " Full calf, gilt edges, backs, etc. 100.00
               
               
                  CHEAP EDITION, PAPER COVER.
                  This edition is published complete in Twenty-two large octave volumes, in
                     paper cover, as follows. Price Fifty cents a volume.
                  Pickwick Papers.
                  Great Expectations.
                  A Tale of Two Cities.
                  New Years' Stories.
                  Barnaby Rudge.
                  Old Curiosity Shop.
                  Little Dorrit.
                  David Copperfield.
                  Sketches by "Boz."
                  Dickens' New Stories.
                  American Notes.
                  Oliver Twist.
                  Lamplighter's Story.
                  Dombey and Son.
                  Nicholas Nickleby.
                  Holiday Stories.
                  Martin Chuzzlewit.
                  Bleak House.
                  Dickens' Short Stories.
                  Message from the Sea.
                  Christmas Stories.
                  Pic-Nic Papers.
               
               
                  LIBRARY OCTAVO EDITION. IN 7 VOLUMES.
                  This edition is in SEVEN very large octavo volumes with a Portrait on steel
                     of Charles Dickens, and bound in the following various styles.
                  Price of a set, in Black Cloth, in seven volumes, $14.00
                   " " Scarlet cloth, extra, 15.00
                   " " Law Library style, 17.00
                   " " Half Turkey, or half calf, 20.00
                   " " Half calf, marbled edges, 21.00
                   " " Half calf, antique, 25.00
                   " " Half calf, full gilt backs, etc, 25.00
               
            
            
               
                  DR. HOLLICK'S WORKS.
                  Dr. Hollick's Anatomy and Physiology with a large Dissected Plate of the
                     Human Figure. Price One Dollar and Twenty-Five cents, bound.
                  Dr. Hollick's Family Physician. A Pocket Guide for Everybody. Price 25
                     cents.
               
               Copies of any of the above Works will be sent by Mail, Free of Postage, on Receipt
                  of the Price.
            
            
               
               
                  CHARLES LEVER'S WORKS.
                  Fine Edition, bound separately.
                  Charles O'Malley, fine edition, cloth, $1.50
                  Harry Lorrequer, fine edition, cloth, 1.50
                  Jack Hinton, fine edition, cloth, 1.50
                  Davenport Dunn, fine edition, cloth, 1.50
                  Tom Burke of Ours, fine edition, cloth, 1.50
                  Arthur O'Leary, fine edition, cloth, 1.50
                  Con Cregan, fine edition, cloth, 1.50
                  Knight of Gwynne, fine edition, cloth, 1.50
                  Valentine Vox, fine edition, cloth, 1.50
                  Ten Thousand a Year, fine edition, one volume, cloth, 1.50
               
               
                  CHARLES LEVER'S NOVELS.
                  All neatly done up in paper covers.
                  Charles O'Malley, Price 50 cents.
                  Harry Lorrequer, 50 "
                  Horace Templeton, 50 "
                  Tom Burke of Ours, 50 "
                  Arthur O'Leary, 50 "
                  Jack Hinton, the Guardsman, 50 "
                  The Knight of Gwynne, 50 "
                  Kate O'Donoghue, 50 "
                  Con Cregan, the Irish Gil Blas, 50 "
                  Davenport Dunn, 50 "
               
            
            
               LIBRARY EDITION.
               THIS EDITION is complete in FIVE large octavo volumes, containing Charles
                  O'Malley, Harry Lorrequer, Horace Templeton, Tom Burke of Ours, Arthur Gwynne,
                  Kate O'Donoghue, etc., handsomely printed, and bound in various styles, as
                  follows:
               
                  Price of a set in Black cloth, $7.50
                   " " Scarlet cloth, 8.00
                   " " Law Library sheep, 8.75
                   " " Half Calf, 12.00
                   " " Half Calf, marbled edges, 12.50
                   " " Half Calf, antique, 15.00
               
            
            
               
                  SAMUEL C. WARREN'S BOOKS.
                  Ten Thousand a Year. Complete in two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar;
                     or a finer edition, in one volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  Diary of a Medical Student. By author of "Ten Thousand a Year." Price 50
                     cents.
               
               
                  EMERSON BENNETT'S WORKS.
                  The Border Rover. Fine edition bound in cloth, for $1.50; or Railroad
                     Edition for One Dollar.
                  Clara Moreland. Fine edition bound in cloth, for $1.50; or Railroad Edition
                     for One Dollar.
                  Viola. Fine edition bound in cloth, for $1.50; or Railroad Edition for One
                     Dollar.
                  The Forged Will. Fine edition bound in cloth, for $1.50; or Railroad Edition
                     for One Dollar.
                  Ellen Norbury. Fine edition bound in cloth, for $1.50; or Railroad Edition
                     for One Dollar.
                  Bride of the Wilderness. Fine edition bound in cloth, for $1.50; or Railroad
                     Edition for One Dollar.
                  Kate Clarendon. Fine edition bound in cloth, for $1.50; or Railroad Edition
                     for One Dollar.
                  Heiress of Bellefonte & Walde-Warren. Cheap edition, paper cover. Price
                     50 cents.
                  Pioneer's Daughter; and the Unknown Countess. Cheap edition, paper cover. 50
                     cents.
               
               
                  DOESTICKS' BOOKS.
                  Doesticks' Letters. Complete in two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or
                     in one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Plu-ri-bus-tah. Complete in two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Elephant Club. Complete in two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or
                     in one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Witches of New York. Complete in two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar;
                     or in one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  Nothing to Say. Illustrated. Price 50 cents.
               
               
                  WILKIE COLLINS' GREAT WORKS.
                  The Dead Secret. One volume, octavo, paper cover. Price fifty cents; or
                     bound in one vol., cloth, for 75 cents; or a fine 12mo. edition, in two vols.,
                     paper cover, in large type, for One Dollar, or in one vol., cloth, for
                     $1.50.
                  The Crossed Path; or, Basil. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in
                     one vol., cloth, for $1.50.
                  Hide and Seek. One vol., octavo, paper cover. Price fifty cents; or bound in
                     one vol., for 75 cents.
                  After Dark. One vol., octavo, paper cover. Price fifty cents; or one vol.,
                     bound in cloth, for 75 cents.
                  Sights Afoot; or Travels Beyond Railways. One volume, octavo, paper cover.
                     Price 50 cents.
                  The Stolen Mask. Price 25 cents.
                  Sister Rose. Price 25 cents.
                  The Yellow Mask. Price 25 cents.
               
               
                  COOK BOOKS.
                  Petersons' New Cook Book; or Useful Receipts of the Housewife and the
                     Uninitiated. Full of valuable receipts, all original and never before
                     published, all of which will be found to be very valuable and of daily use. One
                     vol., bound. Price $1.50.
                  Miss Leslie's New Cookery Book. Being her last new book. One volume, bound.
                     Price $1.50.
                  Widdifield's New Cook Book, or Practical Receipts for the Housewife. Cloth.
                     Price $1.25.
                  Mrs. Hale's New Cook Book. By Mrs. Sarah J. Hale. One volume, bound. Price
                     $1.25.
                  Miss Leslie's New Receipts for Cooking. Complete in one volume, bound. Price
                     $1.25.
               
               
                  MRS. HALE'S RECEIPTS.
                  Mrs. Hale's Receipts for the Million. Containing 4545 Receipts. By Mrs.
                     Sarah J. Hale. One vol., 800 pages, strongly bound. Price, $1.50.
               
               
                  MISS LESLIE'S BEHAVIOUR BOOK.
                  Miss Leslie's Behaviour Book. A complete Guide and Manual for Ladies. Price
                     $1.50.
               
               
                  FRANCATELLI'S FRENCH COOK.
                  Francatelli's Celebrated French Cook Book. The Modern Cook. A Practical
                     Guide to the Culinary Art, in all its branches; comprising, in addition to
                     English Cookery, the most approved and recherché system of French, Italian, and
                     German Cookery; adapted as well for the largest establishments, as for the use
                     of private families. By CHARLES ELME FRANCATELLI, pupil to the celebrated
                     CAREME, and late Maitre-d'Hôtel and Chief Cook to her Majesty, the Queen of
                     England. With Sixty-Two Illustrations of various dishes. Reprinted from the
                     Ninth London Edition, carefully revised and considerable enlarged. Complete in
                     one large octavo volume of Six Hundred pages, strongly bound, and printed on
                     the finest double super-calendered paper. Price Three Dollars a copy.
               
               
                  J. A. MAITLAND'S GREAT WORKS.
                  The Three Cousins. By J. A. Maitland. Two vols., paper. Price $1.00; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Watchman. Complete in Two large vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or in
                     one vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Wanderer. Complete in Two volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00; or in one
                     vol., cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Diary of an Old Doctor. Two vols., paper cover. Price $1.00; or bound in
                     cloth for $1.50.
                  The Lawyer's Story. Two volumes, paper cover. Price $1.00; or bound in cloth
                     for $1.50.
                  Sartaroe. A Tale of Norway. Two vol. paper cover. Price $1.00; or in cloth
                     for $1.50.
               
               
                  MRS. DANIELS' GREAT WORKS.
                  Marrying for Money. One vol., octavo, paper cover. Price fifty cents; or one
                     vol., cloth, 75 cents.
                  The Poor Cousin. Price 50 cents.
                  Kate Walsingham. Price 50 cents.
               
               Copies of any of the above Works will be sent by Mail, Free of Postage, on Receipt
                  of the Price.
            
            
               
                  ALEXANDER DUMAS' WORKS.
                  Count of Monte-Cristo. By Alexander Dumas. Beautifully illustrated. One
                     volume, cloth, $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, for One Dollar.
                  The Conscript. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume,
                     cloth, for $1.50.
                  Camille; or the Camelia Lady. The only correct Translation from the Original
                     French. Two volumes, paper, price One Dollar; or in cloth, $1.50.
                  The Three Guardsmen. Price 75 cents, in paper cover, or a finer edition in
                     cloth, for $1.50.
                  Twenty Years After. A Sequel to the "Three Guardsmen." Price 75 cents, in
                     paper cover, or a finer edition, in one volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  Bragelonne; the Son of Athos; being the continuation of "Twenty Years
                     After." Price 75 cents, in paper, or a finer edition, in cloth, for
                     $1.50.
                  The Iron Mask. Being the continuation of the "Three Guardsmen." Two vols.,
                     paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.50.
                  Louise La Valliere; or, The Second Series and end of the "Iron Mask." Two
                     volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one vol., cloth,
                     $1.50.
                  The Memoirs of a Physician. Beautifully Illustrated. Two volumes, paper
                     cover. Price One Dollar; or bound in one volume, cloth, cloth, for
                     $1.50.
                  The Queen's Necklace. A Sequel to the "Memoirs of a Physician." Two vols,
                     paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.50.
                  Six Years Later; or, Taking of the Bastile. A Continuation of "The Queen's
                     Necklace." Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one vol., cloth, for
                     $1.50.
                  Countess of Charney; or, The Fall of the French Monarchy. Sequel to Six
                     Years Later. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume, cloth,
                     for $1.50.
                  Andree de Taverney. A Sequel to and continuation of the Countess of Charny.
                     Two volumes, paper. Price $1.00; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Chevalier. A Sequel to, and final end of "Andree De Taverney." One vol.
                     Price 75 cents.
                  The Adventures of a Marquis. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in
                     one vol., cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Forty-Five Guardsmen. Price 75 cents, or a finer edition in one volume,
                     cloth. Price $1.50.
                  The Iron Hand. Price 75 cents, in paper cover, or a finer edition in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  Diana of Meridor. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, for $1.50.
                  Edmond Dantes. Being a Sequel to Dumas' celebrated novel of the "Count of
                     Monte-Cristo." One volume. Price 50 cents.
                  Annette; or, The Lady or the Pearls. A Companion to "Camille." Price 50
                     cents.
                  The Fallen Angel. A Story of Love and Life in Paris. One volume. Price 50
                     cents.
                  The Man with Five Wives. Complete in one volume. Price 50 cents.
                  George; or, The Planter of the Isle of France. One volume. Price Fifty
                     cents.
                  Genevieve; or, The Chevalier of Maison Rouge. One volume. Illustrated. Price
                     50 cents.
                  The Mohicans of Paris. Price 50 cents.
                  Sketches in France. One vol. Price 50 cents.
                  Isabel of Bavaria. One vol. Price 50 cents.
                  Felina de Chambure; or, The Female Fiend. Price 50 cents.
                  The Horrors of Paris. One vol. Price 50 cts.
                  The Twin Lieutenants. One vol. Price 50 cts.
                  The Corsican Brothers. Price 25 cents.
               
               
                  COINS OF THE WORLD.
                  Petersons' Complete Coin Book, containing Perfect Fac Similes of all the
                     various Gold, Silver, and other Metallic Coins, throughout the World, near Two
                     Thousand in all, being the most complete Coin Book in the World, with the
                     United States Mint Value of each Coin under it. Price $1.00.
               
               
                  FRANK E. SMEDLEY'S WORKS.
                  Harry Coverdale's Courtship and Marriage. Two vols., paper. Price $1.00; or
                     cloth, $1.50.
                  Lorrimer Littlegood. By author of "Frank Fairlegh." Two vols., paper. Price
                     $1; or cloth, $1.50.
                  Frank Fairleigh. One volume, cloth, $1.50; or cheap edition in paper cover,
                     for 75 cents.
                  Lewis Arundel. One vol., cloth. Price $1.50; or cheap edition in paper
                     cover, for 75 cents.
                  Fortunes and Misfortunes of Harry Racket Scapegrace. Cloth. Price 1.50; or
                     cheap edition in paper cover, for 50 cents.
                  Tom Racquet; and His Three Maiden Aunts. Full of beautiful illustrations.
                     Price 50 cents.
               
               
                  MISS BREMER'S NEW WORKS.
                  The Father and Daughter. By Fredrika Bremer. Two vols., paper. Price $1.00;
                     or cloth, $1.50.
                  The Four Sisters. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     volume, cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Neighbors. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume,
                     cloth, for $1.00.
                  The Home. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume,
                     cloth, for $1.50.
                  Life in the Old World; or, Two Years in Switzerland and Italy. Complete in
                     two large duodecimo volumes, or near 1000 pages. Price $3.00.
               
               
                  GREEN'S WORKS ON GAMBLING.
                  Gambling Exposed. By J. H. Green, the Reformed Gambler. Two vols., paper
                     cover. Price $1.00; or in one volume, cloth, gilt, for $1.50.
                  The Gambler's Life. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, gilt, for $1.50.
                  Secret Band of Brothers. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Reformed Gambler. Two vols., paper. Price One Dollar; or in one vol.,
                     cloth, for $1.50.
               
               
                  MRS. GREY'S NEW BOOKS.
                  Little Beauty. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume,
                     cloth, for $1.50.
                  Cousin Harry. Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume,
                     cloth, for $1.50.
                  The Flirt. One volume, octavo, paper cover. Price Fifty cents; or in one
                     vol., cloth, for 75 cents.
               
               
                  MRS. GREY'S POPULAR NOVELS.
                  Price Twenty-Five Cents each.
                  Gipsy's Daughter
                  Baronet's Daughters.
                  Lena Cameron.
                  The Young Prima Donna.
                  Belle of the Family.
                  Alice Seymour.
                  Sybil Lennard.
                  Hyacinthe.
                  Duke and Cousins
                  The Little Wife.
                  The Manœuvring Mother.
                  Old Dower House
                  Passion & Principle. 50 cents.
                  Nary Seaham. 50c.
               
               
                  G. P. R. JAMES'S NEW BOOKS.
                  The Cavalier. An Historical Romance. With a steel portrait of the author.
                     Two vols., paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one volume, cloth, for
                     $1.50.
                  Lord Montagu's Page. Two volumes, paper cover. Price One Dollar; or in one
                     vol., cloth, $1.50.
                  The Man in Black. Price 50 cents.
                  Arrah Neil. A Novel. Price 50 cents.
                  Mary of Burgundy. Price 50 cents.
                  Eva St. Clair; and other Tales. Price 25 cents.
               
               
                  MISS ELLEN PICKERING'S WORKS.
                  Price Thirty-Eight Cents each.
                  Who Shall be Heir?
                  Ellen Wareham.
                  The Secret Foe.
                  Nun Darrel.
                  The Expectant.
                  Prince & Pedlar.
                  The Fright.
                  Quiet Husband.
                  Merchant's Daughter.
                  The Squire.
                  Orphan Niece. 50c.
                  The Grumbler. 50c.
               
               Copies of any of the above Works will be sent by Mail, Free of Postage, on receipt
                  of the Price.
            
            
               
               MILITARY NOVELS.
               By Lever, Dumas and other Authors.
               With Illuminated Military Covers, in Colors. Published and for sale and wholesale,
                  by the dozen, hundred, or thousand, at very low rates.
               
                  Their names are as follows:
                  Charles O'Malley, The Irish Dragoon, Price 50
                  Jack Hinton, the Guardsman. 50
                  The Knight of Gwynne. 50
                  Harry Lorrequer. 50
                  Tom Burke of Ours. 50
                  Arthur O'Leary. 50
                  Con Cregan's Adventures. 50
                  Kate O'Donoghue. 50
                  Horace Templeton. 50
                  Davenport Dunn. 50
                  The Conscript. Two vols., each. 50
                  Following the Drum. 50
                  Valentine Vox. By Harry Cockton. 50
                  Twin Lieutenants. 50
                  Stories of Waterloo. 50
                  The Soldier's Wife. 50
                  Guerilla Chief. 50
                  The Three Guardsmen. 75
                  Twenty Years After. 75
                  Bragelonne, the Son of Athos. 75
                  Wallace, Hero of Scotland. 75
                  Forty-five Guardsmen. 75
                  The Quaker Soldier. Two vols., each. 50
               
               Sutlers in the Army, Pedlars and Canvassers, can sell thousands of the above
                  works, all of which are published with Illuminated Military covers, in colors,
                  making them the most attractive books ever printed.
            
            
               
                  REYNOLDS' GREAT WORKS.
                  Mysteries of the Court of London. Complete in one large vol., bound in
                     cloth, for $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  Rose Foster; or, "The Second Series of the Mysteries of the Court of
                     London." 1 vol., cloth, $2.00; or in three volumes, paper cover, price
                     $1.50.
                  Caroline of Brunswick; or, the "Third Series of the Mysteries of the Court
                     of London." Complete in one large vol., bound in cloth, for $1.50; or in two
                     volumes, paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  Venetia Trelawney; being the "Fourth Series, or final conclusion of the
                     Mysteries of the Court of London." Complete in one vol., in cloth, for $1.50;
                     or in two volumes, paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  Lord Saxondale; or, The Court of Queen Victoria. Complete in one vol., in
                     cloth, for $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  Count Christoval. The "Sequel to Lord Saxondale." Complete in one vol.,
                     bound in cloth, for $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, price One
                     Dollar.
                  Rosa Lambert; or, The Memoirs of an Unfortunate Woman. One vol., bound in
                     cloth, for $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  Mary Price; or, The Adventures of a Servant-Maid. Complete in one vol.,
                     bound in cloth, for $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, price One
                     Dollar.
                  Eustace Quentin. A "Sequel to Mary Price." Complete in one large vol., bound
                     in cloth, for $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  Joseph Wilmot; or, The Memoirs of a Man-Servant. Complete in one vol., bound
                     in cloth, for $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  The Banker's Daughter. A Sequel to "Joseph Wilmot." Complete in one vol.,
                     cloth, for $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  Kenneth. A Romance of the Highlands. Complete in one large volume, bound in
                     cloth, for $1.50; or in two volumes, paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  The Rye-House Plot; or, Ruth, the Conspirator's Daughter. One volume, bound
                     in cloth for $1.50; or in two vols., paper cover, price One Dollar.
               
               
                  REYNOLDS' GREAT WORKS.
                  The Necromancer. A Romance of the Times of Henry the Eighth. One vol., bound
                     in cloth, for $1.50; or in two vols., paper cover, price One Dollar.
                  The Opera Dancer; or, The Mysteries of London Life. Complete in one vol.
                     Price 50 cents.
                  The Ruined Gamester. With Illustrations. Complete in one large octavo vol.
                     Price Fifty cents.
                  Wallace: the Hero of Scotland. Illustrated with Thirty-eight plates. Price
                     75 cents.
                  The Child of Waterloo; or, The Horrors of the Battle Field. Complete in one
                     vol. Price 50 cents.
                  The Countess and the Page. Complete in one large volume. Price 50
                     cents.
                  Ciprina; or, The Secrets of a Picture Gallery. Complete in one vol. Price 50
                     cents.
                  Robert Bruce: the Hero King of Scotland, with his Portrait. One vol. Price
                     50 cents.
                  Isabella Vincent; or, The Two Orphans. One volume, paper cover. Price 50
                     cents.
                  Vivian Bertram; or, A Wife's Honor. A Sequel to "Isabella Vincent." One vol.
                     Price 50 cents.
                  The Countess of Lascelles. The Continuation to "Vivian Bertram." One vol.
                     Price 50 cents.
                  Duke of Marchmont. Being the Conclusion of "The Countess of Lascelles."
                     Price Fifty cents.
                  Gipsy Chief. Beautifully Illustrated. Complete in one large octavo volume.
                     Price 75 cents.
                  Pickwick Abroad. A Companion to the "Pickwick Papers," by "Box." One vol.
                     Price 50 cents.
                  Queen Joanna; or, the Mysteries of the Court of Naples. Price 50
                     cents.
                  Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots. Complete in one large octavo volume. Price
                     Fifty cents.
                  May Middleton; or, The History of a Fortune. Price 50 cents.
                  The Loves of the Harem. Price 50 cents.
                  The Discarded Queen. One vol. 50 cents.
                  Ellen Percy; or, Memoirs of Actress. Price 50 cts.
                  Massacre of Glencoe. Price 50 cents.
                  Agnes Evelyn; or, Beauty and Pleasure. 50 cts.
                  The Parricide. Beautifully Illustrated. 50 cts.
                  Life in Paris. Handsomely Illustrated. 50 cts.
                  The Soldier's Wife. Illustrated. 50 cents.
                  Clifford and the Actress. Price Fifty cents.
                  Edgar Montrose. One volume. Price 25 cents.
               
               
                  T. S. ARTHUR'S BEST WORKS.
                  Price Twenty-Five Cents each.
                  The Lady at Home.
                  Year after Marriage.
                  Cecilia Howard.
                  Orphan Children.
                  Love in High Life.
                  Debtor's Daughter.
                  Agnes; or, The Possessed.
                  Love in a Cottage.
                  Mary Mareton.
                  The Divorced Wife.
                  The Two Brides.
                  Lucy Sanford.
                  The Banker's Wife.
                  The Two Merchants.
                  Insubordination.
                  Trial and Triumph.
                  The Iron Rule.
                  Pride and Prudence.
                  Lizzie Glen; or, The Trials of a Seamstress. By T. S. Arthur. One vol.,
                     cloth, gilt. Price $1.50, or in two vols., paper cover, for $1.00.
               
               
                  J. F. SMITH'S WORKS.
                  Thomas Balscombe; or the Usurer's Victim. One volume, octavo. Price 50
                     cents.
                  Adelaide Waldgrave; or the Trials of a Governess. One volume, octavo. Price
                     50 cents.
               
               Copies of any of the above Works will be sent by Mail, Free of Postage, on receipt
                  of the Price.
            
            
               CHARLES DICKENS' WORKS.
               Twenty-eight Different Editions.
               "PETERSONS'" are the only complete and uniform editions of Charles Dickens' Works
                  ever published in the world; they are printed from the original London Editions,
                  and are the only editions published in this country. No library, either public or
                  private, can be complete without having in it a complete set of the works of this,
                  the greatest of all living authors. Every family should possess a set of one of
                  the following editions.
               
                  DUODECIMO ILLUSTRATED EDITION. IN 30 VOLUMES.
                  This Edition in Duodecimo form is beautifully Illustrated with over Six Hundred
                     Steel and Wood Illustrations, from designs by Cruikshank, Phiz, Leech, Browne,
                     Maclise, McLenan, etc., illustrative of the best scenes in each work making it
                     the most beautiful and perfect edition in the world. The works are as
                     follows:
                  
                     Pickwick Papers. Two vols., cloth Price 3.00
                     A Tale of Two Cities. Two vols., cloth, 3.00
                     David Copperfield. Two vols., cloth, 3.00
                     Oliver Twist. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                     Christmas Stories. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                     Bleak House. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                     Great Expectations. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                     Lamplighter's Story. One vol., cloth, 2.00
                  
                  
                     Little Dorrit. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                     Dombey and Son. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                     Sketches by "Boz." Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                     Barnaby Rudge. Two volumes, cloth, 3.00
                     Martin Chuzzlewit, Two vols., cloth, 3.00
                     Old Curiosity Shop. Two vols., cloth, 3.00
                     Dickens' New Stories. One vol., cloth. 1.50
                     Message from Sea. One vol., cloth, 1.50
                     Price of a set, in Thirty volumes, bound in 
                            " " Black cloth, gilt backs, $45.00
                            " " Full Law Library style, 55.00
                        
                     
                     Price of a set, in Half calf, antique, 90.00
                      " " Half calf, full gilt back, 90.00
                      " " Full calf, antique, 100.00
                      " " Full calf, gilt edges, backs, etc. 100.00
                  
               
               
                  PEOPLE'S DUODECIMO EDITION. IN 17 VOLUMES.
                  This Duodecimo edition is complete in Seventeen volumes, of near One Thousand
                     pages each, with two illustrations in each volume, and contains all the reading
                     matter that is in the Illustrated Edition. The volumes are sold separately,
                     price One Dollar and Seventy-five cents each, bound in cloth; or a complete set
                     for Twenty-nine Dollars, as follows:
                  
                     Great Expectations.
                     Old Curiosity Shop.
                     Christmas Stories.
                     Lamplighter's Story.
                     Bleak House.
                     Sketches by "Boz."
                     A Tale of Two Cities.
                     David Copperfield.
                     Dickens' New Stories.
                     Little Dorrit.
                     Dombey and Son.
                     Oliver Twist.
                     Pickwick Papers.
                     Nicholas Nickleby.
                     Message from Sea.
                     Barnaby Rudge.
                     Martin Chuzzlewit.
                     Price of a set, in Black cloth, in 17 volumes, $29.00
                      " " Full Law Library style, 35.00
                      " " Half calf, or half Turkey, 42.00
                      " " Half, calf, marbled edges, French, 44.00
                     Price of a set, in Half calf, antique, $50.00
                      " " Half calf, full gilt backs, etc, 50.00
                      " " Full calf, antique, 60.00
                      " " Full calf, gilt edges, backs, etc, 60.00
                  
               
               
                  ILLUSTRATED OCTAVO EDITION. IN 17 VOLUMES.
                  THIS EDITION IS IN SEVENTEEN VOLUMES, octavo, and is printed on very thick and
                     fine white paper, and is profusely illustrated with all the original
                     illustrations by Cruikshank, Alfred Crowquill, Phiz, etc., from the original
                     London editions, on copper, steel, and wood, as well as by original
                     illustrations by JOHN MCLENAN, New York. Each volume contains a novel complete,
                     and may be had in complete sets, beautifully bound in cloth, for Thirty-Two
                     Dollars a set; or any volume will be sold separately, at Two Dollars each. The
                     following are their respective names:
                  
                     Great Expectations.
                     Old Curiosity Shop.
                     Christmas Stories.
                     Lamplighter's Story.
                     Bleak House.
                     Sketches by "Boz."
                     A Tale of Two Cities.
                     David Copperfield.
                     Oliver Twist.
                     Little Dorrit.
                     Dombey and Son.
                     Dickens' New Stories.
                     Pickwick Papers.
                     Nicholas Nickleby.
                     American Notes,etc.
                     Barnaby Rudge.
                     Martin Chuzzlewit.
                     Price of a set, in Black Cloth, in 17 volumes, $32.00
                      " " Full Law Library style, 42.00
                      " " Half calf, or Half Turkey. 48.00
                     Price of a set, in Half calf, marbled edges, 50.00
                      " " Half calf, antique, 60.00
                      " " Half calf, full gilt backs, etc., 60.00
                  
               
               
                  LIBRARY OCTAVO EDITION. IN 7 VOLUMES.
                  This Edition is in SEVEN very large octavo volumes, with a Portrait on steel of
                     Charles Dickens, containing the whole of all of the above works by Charles
                     Dickens, illustrated, and bound in various styles.
                  
                     Price of a set, in Black Cloth, in seven volumes, $14.00
                      " " Scarlet cloth, extra. 15.00
                      " " Law Library style. 17.50
                      " " Half Turkey, of half calf. 20.00
                     Price of a set, in Half calf, marbled edges, French, $21.00
                      " " Half calf, antique, 25.00
                      " " Half calf, full gilt backs, etc., 25.00
                  
               
               
                  CHEAP EDITION, PAPER COVER, IN 22 VOLUMES.
                  This edition is published complete in Twenty-two octavo volumes, in paper
                     cover, as follows. Price Fifty cents a volume.
                  
                     Great Expectations.
                     Lamplighter's Story.
                     Message from the Sea.
                     A Tale of Two Cities.
                     David Copperfield.
                     Christmas Stores.
                     Pickwick Papers.
                     Dombey and Son.
                     Dickens' Short Stories.
                     New Years' Stories.
                     Holiday Stories.
                     Sketches by "Boz."
                     Barnaby Rudge.
                     Nicholas Nickleby.
                     Dickens' New Stories.
                     Old Curiosity Shop.
                     Martin Chuzzlewit.
                     American Notes, etc.
                     Little Dorrit.
                     Bleak House.
                     Pic-Nic Papers.
                     Oliver Twist.
                  
                  Copies of any work, in cloth, or in paper cover, or any set of either of the
                     Twenty-Eight Editions, in any of the various styles of bindings, of Charles
                     Dickens' Works, will be sent to any person, to any part of the United States,
                     free of postage or any other expense, on their remitting the price of the
                     edition they may wish to the publishers, in a letter.
                  Published for sale by T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, No. 306 Chestnut Street
                     above Third, Philadelphia, Pa.
               
            
            
               
               WALTER SCOTT'S WORKS.
               THIRTY-SEVEN DIFFERENT EDITIONS.
               No Library or Household whatever can be complete without having in it a Set of one
                  of Petersons' Editions of the Works of Sir Walter Scott.
               
                  WAVERLEY NOVELS.
                  BY SIR WALTER SCOTT.
                  With a magnificent Portrait of Sir Walter Scott, engraved from the last
                     Portrait for which he ever sat, at Abbottsford, with his Autograph under
                     it.
                  Petersons' is the cheapest and only complete edition of the far-famed
                        Works of Sir Walter Scott published in the United States. It
                     has been well observed by an able and eloquent American critic, that "If ever
                     writer deserved universal citizenship, it was Sir Walter Scott. He was the Post
                     of Nature, the delineator of his species and a denizen, and his works should be
                     a household companion in every homestead in the land." Petersons' edition of
                     the Waverley Novels is reprinted from the original Edinburgh Edition, that was
                     issued in Forty-Eight Volumes, at a cost of Seventy-Two Dollars, and comprises
                     the following works:—
                  
                     HEART OF MID LOTHIAN.
                     A LEGEND OF MONTROSE.
                     GLOSSARY FOR THE NOVELS.
                     BRIDE OF LAMMERMOOR.
                     THE FORTUNES OF NIGEL.
                     THE SURGEON'S DAUGHTER.
                     THE BLACK DWARF.
                     PEVERIL OF THE PEAK.
                     AUNT MARGARET'S MIRROR.
                     GUY MANNERING.
                     QUENTIN DURWARD.
                     THE FAIR MAID OF PERTH.
                     THE ANTIQUARY.
                     ST. RONAN'S WELL.
                     COUNT ROBERT OF PARIS.
                     OLD MORTALITY.
                     THE MONASTERY.
                     THE HIGHLAND WIDOW.
                     WAVERLEY.
                     THE BETROTHED.
                     TAPESTRIED CHAMBER.
                     KENILWORTH.
                     REDGAUNTLET.
                     ANNE OF GEIERSTEIN.
                     THE PIRATE.
                     THE TALISMAN.
                     CASTLE DANGEROUS.
                     IVANHOE.
                     WOODSTOCK.
                     THE LAIRD'S JOCK.
                     ROB ROY.
                     THE ABBOT.
                     TWO DROVERS.
                  
                  And all of the above works are published complete in Twenty-Six paper cover
                     Volumes, and sold at the low price of Thirty-eight Cents for each volume, or
                     Eight Dollars a set, and contains every word that is in the Edinburgh Edition
                     which sells at Seventy-Two Dollars a copy.
                  T. B. Peterson & Brothers also published the whole of the above, complete
                     in Five large octavo volumes, with Scott's Portrait, and handsomely engraved
                     Steel Title Pages to each volume, the whole being neatly and handsomely bound
                     in various styles. This is the cheapest and most complete and perfect edition
                     of the Waverley Novels published in the world, as it contains all the Author's
                     last additions and corrections. The sets are bound in the following Eighteen
                     styles, and sold at the following prices.
                  
                     Black cloth, plain. $10.00
                      " Gold Medallion of Scott on side. 10.50
                      " Full Gold side and Gold Medallion, 11.00
                      " Full Gilt Back, sides, Medallion, etc. 12.00
                     Scarlet cloth, plain. 11.00
                      " Gold Medallion of Scott on side. 11.50
                      " Full Gold side and Gold Medallion. 12.00
                      " Full Gilt back, sides, Medallion, etc. 12.50
                     Law Library, sprinkled edges, etc., 12.00
                     Law Library, sprinkled edge, gilt edge rolled, 12.50
                      " marbled edge, gilt edge, gilt edge rolled, etc., 13.00
                     Half Calf, sprinkled edge, 15.00
                      " marbled edge, 16.00
                      " antique, 17.50
                      " full gilt backs, etc. 17.50
                     Full Morocco, Antique, brown edges, 20.00
                     Full Morocco gilt edges, etc, 20.00
                     Full Morocco, full gilt back, gilt top, French, 20.00
                  
               
               
                  SIR WALTER SCOTT'S COMPLETE PROSE AND POETICAL WORKS.
                  Petersons' is the only complete, entire, and uniform edition of all the works
                     ever written by Sir Walter Scott, published in the United States. It is
                     complete in Ten large octavo volumes of over 7000 pages, and it contains the
                     whole of his "WAVERLEY NOVELS." described above (which only forms Five of the
                     Ten volumes), as well as the whole of his PROSE, POETICAL AND DRAMATIC WORKS;
                     together with his LIFE OF NAPOLEON, and all his HISTORIES AND ESSAYS; with the
                     MEMOIRS OF SIR WALTER SCOTT'S LIFE, by J. G. Lockhart, Esq., and the AUTHOR'S
                     LAST CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS. Complete in Ten Large Octavo Volumes,
                     comprising over Seven Thousand pages, and bound in the following Eighteen
                     various styles:—
                  
                     Black cloth, plain. $20.00
                      " Gold Medallion of Scott on side, 21.00
                      " Full Gold Side and Gold Medallion, 22.00
                      " Full Gilt back, sides, Medallion, etc., 24.00
                     Scarlet cloth, plain. 22.00
                      " Gold Medallion of Scott on side, 23.00
                      " Full Gold side and Gold Medallion, 24.00
                      " Full Gilt back, sides, Medallion, etc. 25.00
                     Law Library, sprinkled edges, etc. 24.00
                     Law Library, sprinkled edge, gilt edge rolled, 25.00
                      " marbled edge, gilt edge rolled, etc. 26.00
                     Half Calf, sprinkled-edge, 30.00
                      " marbled edge, 32.00
                      " antique, 35.00
                      " full gilt backs, etc. 35.00
                     Full Morocco, Antique, brown edges, 40.00
                     Full Morocco, gilt edges, etc. 40.00
                     Full Morocco, full gilt back, gilt top, French, 40.00
                  
                  Copies of any of the above Editions will be sent by Mail, Free of Postage, on
                     receipt of price
               
            
            
               GET UP YOUR CLUBS for 1864!
               NEW AND SPLENDID PREMIUMS!
               PETERSON'S MAGAZINE! THE BEST AND CHEAPEST IN THE WORLD!
               This popular Monthly contains more for the money than any Magazine in the World.
                  In 1864, it will have nearly 1000 pages, 25 to 30 steel plates, 12 colored
                  patterns, and 900 wood engravings—and all this for only TWO DOLLARS A YEAR, or a
                  dollar less than magazines of its class. Every lady ought to take "Petersons." In
                  the general advance of prices, it is THE ONLY MAGAZINE THAT HAS NOT RAISED ITS
                  PRICES, EITHER TO SINGLE SUBSCRIBERS OR TO CLUBS; and is, therefore,
                  emphatically,
               THE MAGAZINE FOR THE TIMES!
               The stories in "Peterson" are conceded to be the best published anywhere. Mrs. Ann
                  S. Stephens, Ella Rodman, Mrs. Denison, Frank Lee Benedict, the author of "Susy
                  L's Diary," T. S. Arthur, E. L. Chandler Moulton, Gabrielle Lee, Virginia F.
                  Townsend, Rosalie Grey, Clara Augusta, and the author of "The Second Life,"
                  besides all the most popular female writers of America are regular contributors.
                  In addition to the unusual number of short stories, there will be given in 1864,
                  Four Original Copy-righted Novelets, vis:
               
                  THE MAID OF HONOR—a Story of Queen Bess, By ANN S. STEPHENS.
                  THE LOST ESTATE—a Story of To-Day, By the author of the "Second
                     Life."
                  MAUD'S SUMMER AT SARATOGA, By FRANK LEE BENEDICT.
                  FANNY'S FLIRTATION, By ELLA RODMAN.
               
               In its Illustrations also, "Peterson" is unrivaled. The publisher challenges a
                  comparison between its SUPERB MEZZOTINTS AND OTHER STEEL ENGRAVINGS. And those in
                  other Magazines, and one at least in given in every number.
               COLORED FASHION PLATES IN ADVANCE!
               It is the ONLY MAGAZINE whose Fashion Plates can be relied on.
               Each number contains a Fashion Plate, engraved on steel, and colored—from Fashions
                  later than any other Magazine gives; also, a dozen or more New Styles, engraved on
                  Wood; also, a Pattern, from which a Dress, Mantilla, or Child's Costume can be
                  cut, without the aid of a mantua-maker—so that each number, in this way, will SAVE
                  A YEAR'S SUBSCRIPTION. The Paris, London, Philadelphia and New York Fashions are
                  described, at length, each month. Patterns of Caps, Bonnets, Head Dresses &c.,
                  given. Its COLORED PATTERNS IN EMBROIDERY, CROCHET, &C.
               The Work-Table Department of this Magazine IS WHOLLY UNRIVALED. Every number
                  contains a dozen or more patterns in every variety of Fancy-work; Crochet,
                  Embroidery, Knitting, Bead-work, Shell-work, Hair-work, &c., &c., &c.
                  Every month, a SUPERB COLORED PATTERN FOR SLIPPER, PURSE or CHAIR SEAT, &c.,
                  is given—each of which, at a retail store, would cost Fifty Cents.
               "OUR NEW COOK-BOOK."
               The Original Household Receipts of "Peterson" are quite famous. For 1861 our
                  "COOK-BOOK" will be continued: EVERY ONE OF THESE RECEIPTS HAS BEEN TESTED. This
                  alone will be worth the price of "Peterson." Other Receipts for the Toilette,
                  Sick-room, &c., &c., will be given.
               NEW AND FASHIONABLE MUSIC in every number. Also, Hints on Horticulture,
                  Equestrianism, and all matters interesting to Ladies.
               
                  TERMS:—ALWAYS IN ADVANCE.
                  One Copy for One year. $2.00
                  Three Copies for One Year, 5.00
                  Five Copies for One Year, 7.50
                  Eight Copies for One Year, 10.00
                  Twelve Copies for One Year, 15.00
                  Sixteen Copies for One Year, 20.00
               
               PREMIUMS FOR GETTING UP CLUBS!—Three, Five, Eight, or more copies, make a Club. To
                  every person getting up a club of Three, and remitting five dollars—or a club of
                  Five, and remitting seven dollars an a half—or a club of Eight, and remitting ten
                  dollars—or a club of Twelve, and remitting fifteen dollars, an extra copy of the
                  Magazine for 1861 will be given. If preferred, however, we will send as a Premium,
                  (instead of the extra copy,) and ILLUSTRATED LADY'S ALBUM, handsomely bound in
                  gilt, or either of our MAGNIFICENT MEZZOTINTS, for framing—each 27 inches by
                  20—"BUNYAN PARTING FROM HIS BLIND CHILD, IN JAIL," or "BUNYAN'S WIFE INTERCEDING
                  FOR HIS RELEASE FROM PRISON." To every person getting up a club of Sixteen, two
                  extra copies of the Magazine will be sent, or any two of the other premiums.
               Address, post-paid, CHARLES J. PETERSON, No. 306 Chestnut Street,
                  Philadelphia.
               All Postmasters constituted Agents; but any person my get up a club. Specimens
                  sent gratuitously, if written for.
            
            
               
               T.B. PETERSON & BROTHERS' PUBLICATIONS
               Booksellers, News Agents, Sutlers, and all others, will be supplied at very low
                  rates.
               
                  BY THE BEST AUTHORS.
                  Train's Union Speeches, 50
                  Mysteries Three Cities 50
                  Twin Lieutenants, 50
                  Clifford & the Actress, 50
                  Lady Maud, 75
                  Ryan's Mysteries of Marriage, 50
                  Banditti of Prairie, 50
                  Greatest Plague of Life, 50
                  Fortune Hunter, 38
                  
                      Racquet, 50
                  Victims Amusements, 38
                  
                     Red Indians of Newfoundland 50
                  Siege of Londonderry, 38
                  The Orphan Sisters, 38
                  Salathiel by Croly, 50
                  Gen. Scott's Portrait, 1 00
                  Aristocracy, 50
                  Henry Clay's Portrait, 1 00
                  Inquisition in Spain, 50
                  Wilfred Montressor, 1 00
                  Flirtations in America 50
                  Petersons' Complete Coin Books, containing facsimilies of all the Coins in
                     the World, 1 00
                  The Coquette, 50
                  Life in the South, 50
                  Sketches in Ireland, 50
                  Whitehall, 50
                  Cabin and Parlor, 50
                  Violet, 50
                  Romish Confessional, 50
                  Montague, or Almacks 50
                  
                     Miser's Heir, paper, 50
                   do. cloth, 75
                  Wearyfoot Common, 38
                  Life in the Far West, 50
                  Father Clement, paper, 50
                   do. cloth, 75
                  Tangarua, a Poem, 1 00
                  New Hope; or Rescue 75
                  Genevea 50
                  Annabel, 75
                  Two Lovers, 50
                  Corinne, or Italy, by Madame De Stael, 50
                  Ned Musgrave, 50
               
               
                  EXCELLENT 25 CENT BOOKS.
                  The Two Prima Donnas. By G. A. Sais, 25
                  American Joe Miller. 25
                  The Haunted House, 25
                  Abbey of Innismoyle, 25
                  Tom Tiddler's Ground, 25
                  Gliddon's Ancient Mysterious Marriage, 25
                  Egypt, 25
                  Jack Downing's Letters, 25
                  Josephine, 25
                  Mysteries of a Convent, 25
                  Philip Search of Wife, 25
                  Bell Brandon, 25
                  Webster and Hayne's Reply to Col. Foote, 25
                  Rose Warrington, 25
                  Robert Oaklands, 25
                  Father Tom and Pope, 25
                  The Iron Cross, 25
                  Slave Smuggler, 25
                  Charles Reneford, 25
                  Life in Syria, 25
                  Sybil Grey, 25
                  Mrs. Bradley's Cook-B'k, 25
                  Female Life in N. York 25
                  Life of Pres't Lincoln, 25
                   " Gen'l Scott, 25
                   " Sayres & Heenman, 25
                  Agnes Grey, 25
                  Eva St. Clair, 25
                  Diary of a Physician, 25
                  Life Raft, 25
                  Emigrant Squire, 25
                  Ballet Girl, 25
                  
                     Stonk, by Lewis, 25
                  Ashleigh, 25
                  Beautiful French Girl, 25
                  Championship, 25
                  Mysteries of Bedlam, 25
                  Career of Champions, 25
                  Nobleman's Daughter, 25
                  Southern Calvary, 25
                  Ella Stratford, 25
                  A Life's Struggles, 1 25
                  Ghost Stories, 25
                  Train and Hughes, 10
                  
                     Abednego, Mrs. Gore, 25
                  Train on Slavery, 10
                  Madison's Exposition of Odd Fellowship. 25
                  Game of Euchre, 75
                  Ride Shots, 25
               
               
                  MAXWELL'S WORKS.
                  Wild Sports of the West, 50
                  Brian O-Lynn, 
                  
                  Stories of Waterloo, 50
               
               
                  EMBROIDERY, ETIQUETTE, ETC.
                  Miss Lambert's Complete Guide to Needle work and Embroider. 116
                     Illustrations. Cloth, 1
                  
                  Lady's Work Table Book, plates, cloth, crimson gilt, 1
                  
                  Gentlemen's Etiquette, 
                  
                  Ladies' Etiquette, 
                  
               
               
                  CHRISTY & WHITE'S SONG BOOKS
                  Christy and Wood's Complete Song Book, 13
                  Budworth's Songs, 
                  
                  Serenader's Song Book, 
                  
                  Melodeon Song Book, 13
                  Christy and White's Plantation Melodies, 13
                  Complete Ethiopian Melodies. Cloth, 
                  
                  Ethiopian Song Book, 13
               
               
                  DICKENS' AND OTHER BOOKS.
                  Seven Poor Travelers, 13
                  Duties of Woman, by Lucretia Mott, 
                  
                  The Schoolboy, 13
                  Lizzie Leigh, 13
                  The Holly-Tree Inn, 
                  
                  Christmas Carol, 13
                  Life of John 
                  
                  The Chimes, 13
                  Euchre and its Laws, 
                  
                  Cricket on the Hearth, 13
                  Throne of Iniquity, 
                  
                  Battle of Life, 13
                  Dr. Berg on Jesuits, 
                  
                  Haunted Men, 13
                  Dr. Berg's Answer to Archbishop Hughes, 
                  
                  Mother & Step Mother, 13
                  Odd Fellowship Exposed, 13
                  Sons of Malta Exposed 
                  
                  Mormonism Exposed, 13
                  Magic Cards, 
                  
               
               
                  WADSWORTH'S SERMONS.
                  America's Mission, 25
                  Thanksgiving: a Thanksgiving Sermon, 
                  
                  Thankfulness a Character, 25
                  Politics 
                  
                  Henry Ward Beecher on War and Emancipation, 
                  
                  Rev. William T. Brantley's Union Sermon, 
                  
               
               
                  NEW YORK MERCURY STORIES.
                  Each book contains Illustrative Engravings by Darley .
                  Saul Sabberday, 25
                  The Rift and the Spray, 
                  
                  Sea Waif, 25
                  The White Wizard, 25
                  Morgan, 
                  
                  The Man-o'-War's-Man's Grudge, 25
                  The Sword-Maker of the Santee, 
                  
                  Stella Delorme, 25
                  The Shell-Hunter, 
                  
                  Luona Prescott, 25
                  Golden Feather, 
                  
                  Our Mess, 25
                  Scotto, the Scout, 
                  
                  Thayendanega, the Scourge, 25
                  The Deain Mystery, 
                  
                  Elfrida, 25
                  The Owlet, 
                  
                  Silver Star, 
                  
                  Pathaway, 25
                  
                     Catholism, 
                  
               
            
            
               CHEAPEST BOOK HOUSE IN THE WORLD.
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS.
               306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Penna.
               PUBLISH THE MOST SALEABLE BOOKS IN THE WORLD, AND SUPPLY ALL BOOKS AT VERY LOW
                  RATES.
               The cheapest place in the world to buy all kinds of Books, suitable for all
                  persons whatever, for Soldiers and for Army, and for all other reading, is at the
                  Publishing House of T.B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, Philadelphia.
               Any person wanting any book at all, in any quantity, from a single book to a
                  dozen, a hundred, thousand, or  quantity of books, had better send on
                  their orders at once to the "CHEAP BOOKSELLING AND PUBLISHING HOUSE" of T. B.
                  PETERSON & BROTHERS," No. 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, who have the
                  largest stock in the country, and will supply them and sell them cheaper than any
                  other house in the world. We have just issued a new  complete catalogue,
                  which we will send gratuitously to all on their sending for one.
               Enclose one, five, ten, twenty, fifty or a hundred dollar, or more, to us in a
                  letter, and write what kind of books you wish, and they will be packed and sent to
                  you at once, per first express or mail, or in any other way you may direct,
                   sell asserted, and the same if you were on the spot, with circulars,
                  show bills, &c., gratis.
               Address all orders for any books you may want all, no matter by whom published, to
                  the "PHILADELPHIA CHEAP PUBLISHING AND BOOKSELLING HOUSE" of T.
                  B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, No. 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
               And they will be filled at once, and the Books sent you per first express after
                  receipt of order, or in any other way you may direct.
               Any of the above Works will be sent by Mail, free of Postage, to any part of the
                  United States, on mailing price of ones wanted, in a letter, to T. B. Peterson
                  & Brothers Philadelphia.
            
            
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS PUBLICATIONS.
               Booksellers, News Agents, Sutlers, and all others, will be supplied at very low
                  rates.
               
                  CAPT. MARRYATT'S WORKS.
                  Jacob Faithful, 25
                  Newton Foster, 25
                  Japhet Search of Father, 25
                  King's Own, 25
                  Phantom Ship, 25
                  Pirate & Three Cutters, 25
                  Midshipman Easy, 25
                  Peter Simple, 50
                  Pacha of Many Tales, 25
                  Percival Keene, 50
                  Naval Officer, 25
                  Poor Jack, 50
                  Snarleyow, 25
                  Sea King, 50
               
               Marryatt's Works are also published in one very large octavo volume, bound in
                  cloth or sheep. Price $2.50.
               
                  LIVES OF HIGHWAYMEN.
                  Life of John A. Murrel, 25
                  Life of Mother Brownrigg, 25
                  Life of Joseph T. Hare, 25
                  Life of Monroe Edwards, 25
                  Jonathan Wild's Life, 25
                  Life of Helen Jewett, 25
                  Dick Parker, the Pirate, 25
                  Life of Jack Raun, 25
                  Life of Mary Bateman, 25
                  Life of Jonathan Wild, 25
                  Life of Captain Blood, 25
                  Mysteries of N. Orleans, 25
                  Galloping Dick's Life, 25
                  The Robber's Wife, 25
                  Life of Frank Smith, 25
                  Obi, or 3 Fingered Jack, 25
                  Life of Dick Patch, 25
                  Kit Clayton, 25
                  Life of Jack Bellingham, 25
                  Lives of the Felons, 25
                  Life of Joe Blackburn, 25
                  Tom Waters, 25
                  Life of Bill Corder, 25
                  Nat Blake, 25
                  Life of Bill Burke, 25
                  Bill Horton, 25
                  The Five Pirates, 25
                  Galloping Gus, 25
                  Jack Halloway, 25
                  Ned Hastings, 25
                  Life of Jack Bishop, 25
                  Biddy Woodhull, 25
                  Life of James Cook, 25
                  Eveleen Wilson, 25
                  Life of Jim Greenacre, 25
                  Diary of a Pawnbroker, 25
                  Tom and Jim Berryman, 25
                  Silver and Pewter, 25
                  Captain Blood and the Beagles, 25
                  Sweeney Todd, 25
                  Life of Henry Thomas, 25
                  Life of Grace O'Malley, 38
                  Dick Turpin, 25
                  Life of Jack Sheppard, 50
                  Desparadoes New World, 25
                  Life of Davy Crockett, 50
                  Ninon De L'Enclos, 25
                  Life of Guy Fawkes, 50
                  Life of Arthur Spring, 25
                  Roderick Random, 50
                  Life of Jack Ketch, 25
                  Memoirs of Vidocq, 1 00
               
               
                  MILITARY AND ARMY BOOKS.
                  Ellsworth's Zouave Drill, 25
                  The Soldier's Companion, 25
                  U.S. Light Infantry Drill, 25
                  Volunteer's Text Book, 50
                  Government Infantry & Rifle Tactics, 25
                  The Soldier's Guide, 25
               
               
                  SEA TALES.
                  Adventures Ben Brace, 50
                  Jack Junk, 25
                  Jack Adams, Mutineer, 50
                  Davis, the Pirate, 25
                  Jack Ariel's Adventures, 50
                  Valdez, the Pirate, 25
                  Petrel, or Life on Ocean, 50
                  Gallant Tom, 25
                  Cruising in Last War, 50
                  Yankee Jack, 25
                  Percy Effingham, 50
                  Harry Helm, 25
                  Life of Tom Bowling, 50
                  Harry Tempest, 25
                  The Pirate's Son, 25
                  Red Wing, 25
                  The Doomed Ship, 25
                  Rebel and Rover, 25
                  The Three Pirates, 25
                  Jacob Faithful, 25
                  The Flying Dutchman, 25
                  Phantom Ship, 25
                  Life of Alexander Tardy, 25
                  Midshipman Easy, 25
                  The Flying Yankee, 25
                  Pacha of Many Tales, 25
                  They Yankee Middy, 25
                  Navel Officer, 25
                  The Gold Seekers, 25
                  Snarleyow, 25
                  The River Pirates, 25
                  Newton Foster, 25
                  The King's Cruisers, 25
                  King's Own 25
                  Man-of-Wars-Man, 25
                  Pirate & Three Cutters, 25
                  Dark Shades City Life, 25
                  Peter Simple, 50
                  The Rats of the Seine, 25
                  Percival Keene, 50
                  Yankees in Japan, 25
                  Poor Jack, 50
                  Red King, 25
                  Sea King, 50
                  Morgan, the Buccaneer, 25
                  Cruising in Last War, 50
               
               
                  GEORGE SAND'S WORKS.
                  Consuelo, 50
                  The Corsair, 25
                  Countess of Rudolstadt, 50
                  Indiana, 2 vols., paper, 1 00
                  or in 1 vol., cloth 1 50
                  First and True Love, 50
               
               
                  HARRY COCKTON'S WORKS.
                  Sylvester Sound, 50
                  The Sisters, 50
                  Valentine Vox, the Ventriloquist, 50
                  The Steward, 50
                  Percy Effingham, 50
               
               
                  AINSWORTH'S GREAT WORKS.
                  Tower of London, 2 vls. 1 00
                  Life of Jack Sheppard, 50
                  Miser's Daughter, do. 1 00
                  Life of Davy Crockett, 50
                  Guy Fawkes, 50
                  Windsor Castle, 50
                  The Star Chamber, 50
                  Life of Henry Thomas, 25
                  Newgate Calendar, 50
                  Dick Turpin, 25
                  Old St. Paul's, 50
                  Desperadoes New World. 25
                  Mysteries of the Court of Queen Anne, 50
                  Life of Arthur Spring, 25
                  Ninon De L'Enclos, 25
                  Mysteries Court Stuarts, 50
                  Life of Grace O'Malley, 38
               
               
                  EUGENE SUE'S WORKS.
                  Wandering Jew, 1 00
                  Mysteries of Paris, 1 00
                  Martin, the Foundling, 1 00
                  Above are each in 2 vols.
                  Man-of-War's-Man, 25
                  Woman's Love, 25
                  Female Bluebeard, 25
                  The Adventures of Raoul De Surville, 25
                  First Love, 25
               
               
                  REVOLUTIONARY TALES.
                  Seven Bros. of Wyoming, 25
                  Wau-nan-gee, 25
                  The Brigand, 25
                  Legends of Mexico, 25
                  The Rebel Bride, 25
                  Grace Dudley; or Arnold at Saratoga, 25
                  Ralph Runnion, 25
                  The Flying Artillerist, 25
                  The Guerilla Chief, 50
                  Old Put, 25
                  The Quaker Soldier, 1 00
               
               
                  EMERSON BENNETT'S WORKS.
                  The Border Rover, 1 00
                  Ellen Norbury, 50
                  Clara Moreland, 50
                  Forged Will, 30
                  Viola, 50
                  Kate Clarendon, 50
                  Bride of Wilderness, 50
                  Above are each in paper cover. Finer editions of each are also published in
                     one volume, cloth, price $1.50 each.
                  Pioneer's Daughter, 50
                  The Prairie Flower, 25
                  Heiress of Bellefonte, and Walde-Warren, 50
                  Leni-Leoti, 25
               
               
                  T. S. ARTHUR'S WORKS.
                  The Two Brides, 25
                  Agnes, or the Possessed, 25
                  Love in a Cottage, 25
                  Lucy Sandford, 25
                  Love in High Life, 25
                  The Banker's Wife, 25
                  Year after Marriage, 25
                  The Two Merchants, 25
                  The Lady at Home, 25
                  Insubordination, 25
                  Cecelia Howard, 25
                  Trial and Triumph, 25
                  Orphan Children, 25
                  The Iron Rule, 25
                  Debtor's Daughter, 25
                  Lizzie Glenn; or, The Trials of a Seamstress. Cloth, 1 50
                  2 vols, paper, 1 00
                  Mary Moreton, 25
                  The Divorced Wife, 25
                  Pride and Prudence, 25
               
               
                  SIR WALTER SCOTT'S NOVELS.
                  Ivanhoe, 38
                  St. Ronan's Well, 38
                  Rob Roy, 38
                  Red Gauntlet, 38
                  Guy Mannering, 38
                  The Betrothed, 38
                  The Antiquary, 38
                  The Talisman, 38
                  Old Mortality, 38
                  Woodstock, 38
                  Heart of Mid Lothian, 38
                  Highland Widow, etc., 38
                  Bride of Lammermoor, 38
                  The Fair Maid of Perth, 38
                  Waverly, 38
                  Anne of Geierstein, 38
                  Kenilworth, 38
                  Count Robert of Paris, 
                  
                  The Pirate, 38 
                  The Black Dwarf and Legend of Montrose, 38
                  The Monastery, 38
                  The Abbot, 38
                  Castle Dangerous, and Surgeon's Daughter, 38
                  The Fortunes of Nigel, 38
                  Peveril of the Peak, 38
                  Moredun. A Tale of 1210, 50
                  Quentin Durward, 38
                  Tales of a Grandfather, 38
                  Life of Scott, cloth, 1 50
               
               A complete set of the novels of Walter Scott will be sent to any one, to any
                  place, free of postage, for Eight Dollars; or another edition of Waverly Novels,
                  in five volumes, bound in cloth, or the Complete Prose and Poetical Works of Sir
                  Walter Scott, in ten volumes, cloth, for $20.
               
                  GEORGE LIPPARD'S WORKS.
                  The Quaker City 1 00
                  Washington and his Generals, or Legends of Am'n Revolution, 1 00
                  Paul Ardenhelm, 1 00
                  Blanch Brandywine. 1 00 
                  Above books are each in 2 vols., paper cover.
                  Ladye of Albarone, 75
                  Legends of Mexico, 25
                  The Nazarene, 50
                  The Empire City, 50
               
               
                  SMITH'S WORKS.
                  Thomas Balscombe; or the Usurer's Victim, 50 
                  Adelaide Waldgrave, or Trials of Governess, 
                  
               
               
                  D'ISRAELI'S WORKS.
                  Henrietta Temple, 50
                  Young Duke, 50
                  Vivian Grey, 50
                  Miriam Alroy, 50
                  Venetia, 50
                  Contarina Fleming, 50
               
               
                  FRANK FAIRLEGH'S WORKS.
                  Frank Fairlegh, 75
                  Lewis Arundel, 75
                  Fortunes of Harry Racket Scapegrace, 50
                  Fine editions of above are issued in cloth, at $1 50 each.
                  Harry Coverdale's Courtship, $1.00, or cloth, 1 50
                  Lorrimer Littlegood, 1 00
                  or in cloth, 1 50
               
               
                  SMOLLETT'S GREAT WORKS.
                  Adventures of Peregrine Pickle, 2 vols., 1 00 
                  Roderick Random, 50
                  Adventures of Ferdinand Count Fathem, 50
                  The Adventures of Humphrey Clinker, 50
                  Sir Launcelot Greaves, 25
               
               
                  HENRY FIELDING'S WORKS.
                  Tom Jones, 2 vols. 1 00
                  Joseph Andrews, 50
                  Amelia, 50
                  Jonathan Wild, 25
               
               
                  E. L. BULWER'S NOVELS.
                  The Roue, 25
                  Calderon, the Courtier, 
                  
                  Falkland, 25
                  The Oxonians, 
                  
               
               Any of the above Works will be sent by Mail, free of Postage, to any part of the
                  United States, on mailing price of the ones wanted, in a letter, to T. B. Peterson
                  & Brothers, Philadelphia.
            
            
               
               CHEAPEST BOOK HOUSE IN THE WORLD!
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Penna. PUBLISH
                  THE MOST SALEABLE BOOKS IN THE WORLD, AND SUPPLY ALL BOOKS AT LOWER RATES THAN ANY
                  ONE ELSE.
               The cheapest place in the world to buy all kinds of Books, suitable for all
                  persons whatever, for Soldiers and for Army, and for all other reading, is a the
                  Publishing House of T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, Philadelphia.
               Any person wanting any book at all, in any quantity, from a single book to a
                  dozen, a hundred, thousand, or  quantity of books, had better send on
                  their orders at once to the "CHEAP BOOKSELLING AND PUBLISHING HOUSE" of T. B.
                  PETERSON & BROTHERS," No. 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, who have the
                  largest stock in the country, and will supply them and sell them cheaper than any
                  other house in the world. We have just issued a new and complete catalogue, which
                  we will send gratuitously to all on their sending for one.
               Enclose one, five, ten, twenty, fifty or a hundred dollar, or more, to us in a
                  letter, and write what kind of books you wish, and they will be packed and sent to
                  you at once, per first express or mail, or in any other way you may direct,
                   sell asserted, and the same if you were on the spot, with circulars,
                  show bills, &c., gratis.
               Booksellers, News Agents, Sutlers, and all others will please address all orders
                  for any books they may want  matter  whom published, to the
                  "PHILADELPHIA CHEAP PUBLISHING AND BOOKSELLING HOUSE." T. B. PETERSON &
                  BROTHERS, 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. And the Books will be sent you at
                  once, per first express after receipt of order, or in any other way you may
                  direct.
               
                  CHARLES DICKENS' WORKS.
                  Great Expectations, 50
                  Old Curiosity Shop, 50
                  Lamplighter's Story, 50
                  Sketches by "Boz," 50
                  David Copperfield, 50
                  Oliver Twist. 50
                  Dombey and Son, 50
                  Little Dorrit. 50
                  Nicholas Nickleby, 50
                  A Tale of Two Cities. 50
                  Pickwick Papers, 50
                  New Years' Stories. 50
                  Christmas Stories, 50
                  Dickens' Short Stories. 50
                  Martin Chuzzlewit, 50
                  Message from the Sea. 50
                  Barnaby Rudge, 50 
                  Holiday Stories. 50
                  Dickens' New Stories, 50
                  American Notes. 50
                  Bleak House, 50
                  Pic-Nic Papers. 50
               
               Above are each in one large octavo volume, paper cover.
               We also publish twenty-eight other editions of Dickens' Works comprising the
                  Library, the People's and the Illustrated editions. In both octavo and duodecimo
                  form, at  from $14.00 to $100.00 a set, according to the 
                  style of binding.
               
                  GEO. W. M. REYNOLDS' WORKS.
                  Mysteries of the Court of London, 2 vols., 1 00
                  
                     , 3 vols., 1 50
                  Caroline of Brunswick, 1 00
                  Venetia Trelawney, 1 00
                  Lord Saxondale, 1 00
                  Count Christoval, 1 00
                  Ross Lambert, 1 00
                  Mary Price, 1 00
                  Eustace Quentin, 1 00
                  Joseph Wilmot, 1 00
                  Banker's Daughter, 1 00
                  Kenneth, 1 00
                  The Rye-House Plot, 1 00
                  The Necromancer, 1 00
               
               Above are each in two volumes, paper cover. Each  finer edition, is also
                  bound in one volume, cloth, .
               
                  The Opera Dancer, 50
                  The Ruined Gamester, 50
                  The Child of Waterloo, 50
                  Ciprina; or, the Secrets of a Picture Gallery, 50
                  
                      50
                  
                      Queen 50 
                  The  Chief 50
                  Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots 50
                  
                      Scotland, 74
                  
                      50
                  
                      50
                  The Countess of Lascelles, 50
                  Duke of Marchmont, 50
                  The Soldier's Wife, 50
                  May Middleton, 50
                  Massacre of Glencoe, 50
                  Queen Joanna, or the Court of Naples, 50
                  Loves of the Harem, 50
                  Ellen Percy, 50
                  Agnes Evelyn, 50
                  Pickwick Abroad, 50
                  Parricide, 50
                  Life in Paris, 50
                  Countess and the Page, 50
                  Edgar Montrose, 35
               
               
                  CHARLES LEVER'S WORKS.
                  Charles O'Malley, 50
                  Harry Lorrequer, 50
                  
                      50
                  Tom Burke of Ours, 50
                  Knight of Gwynne, 50
                  Arthur O'Leary, 50
                  Con Cregan, 50
                  Davenport Dunn, 50
                  Horace Templeton, 50
                  Kate O'Donoghue, 50
               
               
                   publish a Military Edition at Lever's Novels.
               
                   of the above are also published, each one  volume, cloth,
                  price $1.50 a volume.
               
                  Ten Thousand a Year,  1 00
                  The Diary of a Medical Student, 1 00
               
               
                  ALEXANDER DUMAS' WORKS.
                  Count of Monte-Cristo, 1 00
                  
                     , 1 00
                  Louise La Valliere 1 00
                  The Adventures of a Marquis 1 00
                  
                      1 00
                  
                      1 00
                  Memoirs of a Physician, 1 00
                  Queen's Necklace, 1 00
                  Six Years Later, 1 00
                  Countess of Charny, 1 00
                  Andree de Taverney, 1 00
                  Camille, 1 00
               
               
                   each in two volumes, paper cover. Each  edition, in one vol.,
                  cloth, for  each.
               
                  The Three Guardsmen, 75
                  Three Years After, 75
                  
                      75
                  Forty-five Guardsmen, 75
                  The Iron Hand, 75
                  The Chevalier of 1793, 75
               
               
                   of each of the above are also published,  volume, cloth,
                  price $1.50 each.
               
                  
                      50
                  
                      50
                  
                     , 50
                  
                      50
                  
                      Paris, 50
                  Sketches in France, 50
                  Isabel of Bavaria, 50
                  Mohicans of Paris, 50
                  Man with Five Wives, 50
                  Twin Lieutenants, 50
                  Annette; or, The Lady of the Pearls, 50
               
               
                  MRS. SOUTHWORTH'S WORKS.
                  Love's Labor Won 1 00
                  Deserted Wife, 1 00
                  The Gipsy's Prophecy, 1 00
                  The Mother-in-Law, 1 00
                  Haunted Homestead, 1 00
                  The Lost Heiress, 1 00
                  Lady of the Isle, 1 00
                  The Two Sisters, 1 00
                  The Three Beauties, 1 00
                  Vivia; Secret Power, 1 00
                  India. Pearl River, 1 00
                  The Missing Bride, 
                  
                  Wife's Victory, 
                  
                  Retribution, 
                  
                  Curse of Clifton, 
                  
                  Discarded Daughter, 
                  
                  The Initials, 
                  
                  The Jealous Husband, 
                  
                  The Dead Secret, 
                  
                  Belle of Washington, 
                  
                  Kate Aylesford, 
                  
                  Courtship & Matrimony 
                  
               
               The above are each in two volumes, paper cover.  book is also published
                  in one volume, cloth, price, $1.00
               
                  Hickory Hall, 50
                  Broken Engagement, 
                  
               
               
                  CAROLINE LEE HENTZ'S WORKS.
                  The Lost Daughter, 1 00
                  The Planter's Northern Bride, 1 00
                  Linda, or the Young Pilot of Belle Creole, 1 00
                  Robert Graham, 1 00
                  Courtship and Marriage, 1 00
                  Rena; or the Snowbird, 
                  
                  Marcus Warland, 
                  
                  Love after Marriage, 
                  
                  Eoline, 
                  
                  The Banished Son, 
                  
                  Helen and Arthur, 
                  
                  Planter's Daughter,
                  
               
               The above are each in one volume, paper cover.  book is also published
                  in one volume, cloth, price $1.00.
               
                  MRS. HENRY WOOD'S BOOKS.
                  The Earl's Heirs, 50
                  The Mystery, 50
                  A Life's Secret, 
                  
                  Better for Worse, 
                  
               
               Above are each in one volume, paper cover. Each is also published in one volume,
                  cloth, price 75 cents.
               
                  The Channings 75
                  The Runaway Match. 75
                  Aurora Floyd, 
                  
               
               The above are each in one volume, paper cover.  one is also published in
                  one volume, cloth, price $1.00.
               
                  Verner's Pride, 1 00
                  The Castle Heir, 
                  
               
               The above are each in two volumes paper cover. one is also published in
                  one volume, cloth, price $1.00.
               The Foggy Night at Offord. By Mrs. Henry Wood.
               
                  GUSTAVE AIMARD'S WORKS.
                  The Prairie Flower, 50
                  The Indian Scout, 50
                  The Trail Hunter, 50 
                  Pirates of the Prairies 
                  
                  
                      Daughter,
                  
                  The Tiger Slayer, 
                  
               
               
                  MRS. DANIELS' GREAT BOOKS.
                  Marrying for Money, 50
                  The Poor Cousin, 50
                  Kate Walsingham, 50
               
               
                  WILKIE COLLINS' BEST WORKS.
                  The Crossed Path, 1 00
                  The Dead Secret, 1 00
               
               The above are each in two volumes, paper cover. Each one  published in
                  one volume, cloth, price $1.50.
               
                  Hide and Seek, 50
                  After Dark, 50
                  The Dead Secret, 50
                  The Stolen Mask, 25
                  The Yellow Mask, 25
                  Sister Rose, 25
                  Sights A-Foot, or Travels Beyond Railways, 50
               
               
                  BEST COOK BOOKS PUBLISHED.
                  Miss Leslie's New Cookery Book, 1 25
                  Widdifield's New Cook Book, 1 25
                  Mrs. Hale's Receipts for the Million, 1 25
                  Mrs. Leslie's New Receipts for Cooking, 1 25
                  Mrs. Hale's New Cook Book, 1 25
                  Francatelli's Celebrated French Cook. The Modern Cook, with 62
                     illustrations, 600 large octavo pages, 3 00
               
               
                  GREEN'S WORKS ON GAMBLING.
                  Gambling Exposed 1 00
                  The Gambler's Life, 1 00
                  The Reformed Gambler 1 00
                  Secret Band Brothers, 1 00
               
               The above are each in two vols., paper cover. Each  is also published in
                  one volume, cloth, price $1.50 each.
               Any of the above Works will be sent by Mail, free of Postage, to any part of the
                  United States, on mailing price of the ones wanted, in a letter, to T.B. Peterson
                  & Brothers, Philadelphia.
            
         
      
   
