
    ----CITATION----
        J. B.. Wolfsden .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5684 wright2-0165
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  ALEK & ERYCINA
               
               
                  WOLFSDEN.
                  BOSTON: PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO.
               
            
         
         
         
            
               WOLFSDEN:
               AN AUTHENTIC ACCOUNT OF Things There and Thereunto Pertaining
                  AS THEY ARE AND HAVE BEEN.
            
            BY J. B.
            
            
               
                  
                     
                        An' clever chiels, an' bonnie hizzies,
                        Are bred in sic a way as this is.
                     
                  
                  BURNS.
               
            
            
               BOSTON:
               PHILLIPS, SAMPSON AND COMPANY,
                  
                     18 WINTER STREET.
                  
               
            
            1856.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by PHILLIPS, SAMPSON
                  & Co., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of
                  Massachusetts.
               Stereotyped by HOBART & ROBBINS, New England Type and Stereotype
                  Foundery,
               BOSTON.
            
         
         
            To MY SISTER,
            WHOSE GOOD WORKS HAVE SHAMED MY IDLENESS AND PROVOKED ME TO EMULATION, AND FROM WHOSE
               VIRTUES I HAVE ENDEAVORED TO DRAW ATTRACTIVE PICTURES OF GOODNESS, I DEDICATE
               WHATEVER IN THE VOLUME HER JUDGMENT OR PARTIALITY MAY APPROVE.
         
      
      
         
            Wolfsden
            
            WOLFSDEN.
            
               P. F.
               MIDNIGHT has passed. Morning dawns. The fading stars twinkle idly in their blue
                  depths, or melt from view in the spreading light. The fringed clouds glow in the
                  eastern sky like the bright wings of Apollo's steeds, ascending their star-paved
                  way. The god of Day—of the golden harp and silver bow—appears. His swift arrows
                  pierce and illuminate the misty morning. They glance from ocean's breast and gild
                  its surging foam. The iceberg's towering pinnacles receive and scatter his
                  trillion shafts. The arctic shores, cold and desolate, where the waves dash their
                  congealing spray, where the white bear snatches the unwary seal from his
                  lurking-place; the snow-piled mountains, receding far, and resting in the majesty
                  of desolation against the northern sky; the wide-extended plains, tracked with the
                  footprints and echoing with the howls of the gaunt fox and famished wolf; the dark
                  and dwarfed forests of fir, where the reindeer gathers his mossy food, all the
                  inhospitable realms of Winter's despotic reign greet with grim defiance the god of
                  the bright bow and golden song. Yet upward ascend his coursers, bearing the bright
                  banners of morning—smiling in victory upon the sullen army.
               
               New England's shores catch and reflect the glowing smile. Here Winter rules his
                  divided empire with a gentler hand. Like a stern father,—stern, but beneficent,—he
                  blesses even while he frowns. His severe lessons teach us wisdom, prompt us to
                  effort, compel us to industry. He hardens our frames, and stimulates our energies.
                  He reminds us of the duties of mutual kindness and benevolence. He gives occasions
                  of social intercourse, diffusing enjoyment and promoting improvement. He nerves
                  the enterprising will. He inspires the generous thought. He gives vigor to the
                  active frame. He is the father of New England character, as the Summer is the
                  genial mother. Though we better love the warm lap of our smiling mother, let us no
                  less thank the sterner father for the discipline of manly virtue.
               Morning dawns in Wolfsden. It is time. The night has been long. The beasts in the
                  stall have consumed their nightly fodder, and chewed the cud of patience, while
                  the frost has silvered their hoary brows, and, hung with icicles their whiskered
                  cheeks. The silly sheep torpidly wait the morning, each with his nose buried in
                  the woolly warmth of close-crowded mates. The feathered brood, cramped upon their
                  high perch, have counted with unerring instinct the last hour of night, and their
                  high-crested lord wakes the morning with a cottage-rousing crow.
               Awake, Alek! Arouse thee! Come from the land of dreams! Arise from the slumberous
                  pillow! A new day dawns, bringing duties, cares, and enjoyments. The golden
                  moments of youth's treasury are gliding away. Up! count, secure them!
               Alek needs no second call. The bounce of his elastic feet upon the floor echoes to
                  the last note of chanticleer. With the iron-bound bucket he has drawn a copious
                  cosmetic from the deep well, and dashed his ruddy cheeks and youthful limbs in
                  unsparing profusion. His frame glows with intenser life.
               The fire smokes, and snaps, and sparkles, and roars, in the ample kitchen chimney.
                  The red light reflects from the frosty window-panes, from the polished platters
                  ranged upon the dressers, from the gilded figures and round-visaged moon upon the
                  tall and venerable clock, and sends cheerful gleams abroad upon the snowy
                  landscape.
               Shaggy Lion, with his big paws and depending ears, his wide mouth and ivory teeth,
                  is awake, and ready for the fights and the frolics of the day. Tabby mews from the
                  cellar, where she has guarded the public weal from stealthy mice and marauding
                  rats. Alek answers their greetings, and hastens to his expectant subjects in the
                  barn. From the high mow he pitches huge heaps of hay before the hungry herd. The
                  bleating sheep, the lowing kine, and the whinnying horses, are bountifully
                  supplied. Down from their high roost fly a various brood,—cackling hens, gobbling
                  turkeys, and screaming pintadids mingle their various language in one unanimous
                  call for food. Alek scatters corn with liberal hand, and they hasten with
                  eagerness to fill their crops.
               Here come Billy and Tommy, racing and shouting through the snow, barefooted,
                  barenecked, with only their trousers buttoned about their waists, as if playing
                  among new-mown hay in sultry June.
               "Back to your beds, you young dogs!" roared Alek, "or I'll duck you in the
                  watering-trough. Hurry, or I'll set Lion on you, you ragamuffins!"
               Billy and Tommy are not much terrified with Alek's threats, but their tingling toes incline them to
                  obedience, and they retreat to the kitchen fire, to the disappointment of Lion,
                  who had already joined their frolic in the snow, and wonders why they should so
                  soon leave the sport.
               A mighty wood-pile rises in substantial dignity, and bounds the door-yard on the
                  east. The solid trunks of tall trees, only lately-towering in their native forest,
                  now lie ready for the axe. Well can Alek wield the keen axe, and sever the knotted
                  boughs, and rive the huge logs.
               Billy and Tommy again appear, now dressed, buskined, capped, and mittened, for
                  work. On their hand-sled they heap the severed and rifted wood and with merry
                  gambols draw it to the shed, where, piled in compact tiers, it will slowly season
                  for future use.
               What bright picture of the morning appears in the open doorway? O, Frances!
                  beautiful amid your clustering locks of gold, sending radiance from your
                  soul-speaking eyes of blue, cheering every heart with your sweet voice, how
                  welcome the summons to breakfast from lips like yours! Alek answers the invitation
                  ere her voice can reach him; he buries the axe deep in the massive log, clasps his
                  sister in his arms, and, with a fond kiss, tosses her to the kitchen. Here is
                  spread the bountiful table. Ever may such a table be surrounded by hearts as good
                  and kind, and faces as bright with pleasant thoughts, as these! How various their
                  characters, and yet all how good! The father and mother, slowly verging toward old
                  age, rich in the experience and reflections of well-spent years; rich in the
                  respect, and love of devoted children; richer than all in the hope and full
                  assurance of a better home beyond this mortal life. Long have they brought their
                  spirits into subordination and union with the spirit of peace and love. Long have
                  they taught by their example the excellence of their faith.
               Helen,—fair, placid, sedate, good Helen,—why is she the last one noticed? Is it
                  because she is always so exactly where she should be and what she should be, and
                  her presence so essential, that, like the blue sky and the pleasant sunshine, we
                  think of her only when we miss her? Helen, mild and calm as a summer's morning,
                  seldom speaking, yet ever expressing good and wise thoughts through your
                  soul-fraught countenance! O, if all were not so good, you would be the best of
                  all!
               Pour the steaming coffee! Spread the brown toast! Slice the wheaten loaf! Plenty
                  reigns.
               O, love-encircled and love-breathing family! how blessed with all that gives
                  health to the body and joy to the soul is your cheerful board!
               Thus far had I proceeded, when an inquisitive face came peering over the page; and
                  soon a remonstrating voice exclaimed,
               "Why, brother, is this the way you begin your long-promised history of Wolfsden?
                  Here you have already put in the whole of Deacon Arbor's family, with not the
                  slightest account of who they are, or where they live, or when they were born, or
                  any other of the proper beginnings of a story! If you set out in this prancing,
                  curveting style, when will you get to your story's end, and who can follow you, or
                  guess where you are going?"
               "Dear sister," said I, "it's the very thing I do not want you to guess. I am
                  preparing pleasant surprises, unexpected results, astonishing developments, and
                  astounding catastrophes phes, for what
                  else do readers care for, in these days of wonderment?"
               "Poh, brother! there are common-sense folks, now-a-days, as many as ever, though
                  book-makers seem to forget them. Write a plain, straight-forward, common-sense
                  history of Wolfsden, with a genealogy of all the inhabitants, and then every
                  family in town will subscribe for a copy, and you will be famous."
               "Dear sister mine, your words are inspired with wisdom. Go and borrow every family
                  register in Wolfsden, and in the mean time I will begin at the beginning, and our
                  town shall be chronicled according to rule."
               "That's a sensible brother," said my sisterly critic; "but it would be a pity to
                  throw away what you have already written. Can't you alter it a little, and let it
                  stand for the preface? You know that nobody ever reads the preface; so it may as
                  well be nonsense as anything else."
               "Sister," said I, a little piqued, "I will have it printed where it
                     shall be read. Let me tell you," said I, holding up the sheet,
                  "that this is very fine writing, only a little too high-flown for your
                  understanding. I will have it for the first chapter in the book;—and, since I must
                  make another beginning, I will call this the PRELIMINARY FLOURISH, and mark it P.
                  F."
               "Dear brother," said the kind creature, "print it where you will. There must be
                  something in every book, as you say, that nobody can understand. I have always
                  found it so; and it may as well be at the beginning as elsewhere, for then we can
                  the easier skip it. So I'll go and borrow the genealogies, and you may begin the
                  beginning."
            
            
               THE BEGINNING.
               WOLFSDEN is a quiet nook among the mountains in Maine, where the sun delights to
                  prop himself among the tall trees, while he peeps down the green valleys, and sees
                  his face reflected in many a winding stream and placid lake. Toward the south and
                  east the view extends to a far-distant horizon, where, aided by a telescope, you
                  may see the sky shut down upon the ocean.
               Toward the north and west the high and rugged hills of Wolfsden are surmounted by
                  higher hills beyond, which grow more and more wild and savage as they approach the
                  White Hills, whose vast and lofty chain seems, at this distance, but as the
                  highest step in a series of ascending mountains, which, beginning far toward the
                  east, rise by regular gradation to the clouds.
               Scenes of rural beauty are more delightful when contrasted with the sublime and
                  terrible. Along the base of those high and desert mountains are scattered the
                  cultivated farms of a happy and well-instructed people. Primitive and plain in
                  their habits, and moderate in their aspirations, they pass their time chiefly in
                  providing things convenient for the present life, and in preparation for the life
                  to come.
               
               There is no strong dividing line separating people into classes. Each family owns
                  a farm of a hundred or two of acres, divided into fields, pastures, and wood-lot,
                  with house, barn, orchard, garden, and other improvements, of which the greater or
                  less apparent perfection is the chief external sign of abundance or deficiency in
                  worldly goods.
               I dwell in mind amidst those scenes of my early days, for there my eyes first saw
                  the light and my first ideas were awakened. I knew the sweets of home affection;
                  of a mother's love and sister's fondness. There I found friendships around me, and
                  became conscious of the emotions which beauty can inspire. There were genial
                  minds, and kind hearts, and loving eyes, among my school companions; and when
                  lessons were learned, what else was left to the ever-busy mind of childhood, but
                  mischief, or merriment, or love? But, under the birchen rule of a country
                  schoolmaster, mischief and merriment are dangerous resources, while love—quiet,
                  deferential, unspoken love—has nothing of danger, and yet fills the void of the
                  earnest heart, and gives fleetness to the wings of weary time.
               I am to speak little of myself in this story,—little of myself, and nothing of my
                  love. It was unspoken, and so it shall remain. The sweet idea of her
                  soul-revealing eyes as she met my admiring look; how happy I was to see her enter
                  the schoolhouse; how I knew her neat and pretty hood among the flock, as I saw
                  afar off their merry coming; how a grace and excellence seemed to surround and
                  separate her from all others; her mild, and yet intellectual look; her rosy, and
                  yet reserved and unapproachable lips; her agile, and yet gentle and graceful
                  motion; her knowing that I loved her, and yet minding it so little, while my soul
                  was swelling with the magnitude of its emotion!
               Ah, the beautiful spring of life is past! Its lovely blossoms are perished, and
                  there is no fruit to glad my autumn. Yet I cherish the fragrance of their memory.
                  I will not speak of our pleasant times, when the boys and girls of our
                  neighborhood assembled to spend a winter evening, how I managed to be near her;
                  and when the apples were named, that in eating them we might know by the number of
                  the seeds our present feelings and future relations to each other, how happy I was
                  when some one would give my name to her apple, and the seeds would come out plump,
                  and read, "He loves, she loves, both love;" and how, when another name instead of
                  my own was so blessed, I pretended to care nothing about it. And when we
                  separated, how eager was I to be ready with my arm to escort her home before
                  another should usurp my place!
               Nor how I sought occasion to be by her side when studying her lesson; and when she
                  was puzzled with a sum, to take the pencil from her dear fingers, or perchance
                  from her sweet lips, and, first putting it to my own, which she would not notice,
                  proceed to put down the figures as they should be, and whisper arithmetical
                  explanations, while tenderer words were trembling on my tongue.
               Why should I speak of this; or how, when roses were in bloom, and strawberries
                  were ripe, I found the fairest and picked the ripest ever by her side; or how I
                  watched her in meeting, and forgot the text; and at singing-school heard no melody
                  but hers; and—but I am determined to say nothing about it. Thirty summers have
                  passed away since those bright spring-days of my life. I hear and feel the blasts
                     of autumn, and Frances Arbor is gone
                  where she should be,—where spring, and youth, and loveliness, are perpetual.
               Every one has noticed that, even in the most rustic population, some families seem
                  endowed with a natural refinement of character, extending not only to personal
                  manners, but to sentiments and feelings; and that even in the same family some
                  individuals will excel others in these respects. This was strikingly shown in the
                  family of Deacon Arbor. Frances was as graceful as the sparrow which flitted
                  around her sunny head, and agile as the pet lamb which delighted to frisk about
                  her path; while Alexander, or Alek as we called her eldest brother, was as awkward
                  as his two-year-old steers which he exercised daily in trying to "break," and
                  which, as if conscious of their master's awkwardness, acted as if determined to
                  break him. Alek, however, was victorious, the steers became docile, well-behaved
                  oxen, while Alek grew up, as tar as externals go, an awkward, lubberly,
                  left-handed blunderhead.
               But Alek had solid qualities of heart and mind, as well as of person. He was four
                  years older than Frances, and two years more than myself, and was one of the most
                  successful competitors in the athletic and often boisterous games and exercises of
                  our school-intermissions and half-holidays. I owe to his good-will and strong arm
                  much of my exemption from the tyranny and violence which my imprudence often
                  provoked, and my strength could not repel. It might be that I won his partiality
                  by the frequent assistance which I bestowed upon his "sums" and other lessons; but
                  I loved to refer it to a more flattering motive,—the kind partiality of Frances,
                  whom he loved as such a sister should be loved.
               Ah, Alek! genial, generous and warm-hearted bear, in your shaggy coat! How shall I
                  describe you, that others may love you as I did, in spite of your rough and rustic
                  garb? And yet you were not so awkward, after all, only when you had on your Sunday
                  coat, and gay vest, and shining hat and boots, and no place where to put your
                  great, brown hands, and no way to apply your great, ox-like strength. A whale or a
                  porpoise is ungraceful when out of water, but in his native element he is quite at
                  home. So with Alek. Who could swing the axe in the forest or at the wood-pile, or
                  the scythe in the meadow, with better grace than he? Or who could guide the plough
                  or handle the hoe with more dexterity? Or if we come to good looks, who had redder
                  cheeks, or brighter eyes, or whiter teeth, or curlier hair, or a more eternally
                  good-natured, half charitable, half self-complacent laugh, like one who thinks
                  pretty well of everybody, and very well of himself? For, however diffident, and
                  deferential, and even self-deprecating, his deportment might appear abroad, and in
                  his Sunday suit, yet, when at home and in his working dress,—or undress, for his
                  coat was always off, and generally his vest and hat,—he appeared sufficiently
                  confident of himself, and much as one born to command, not oxen merely, but
                  men,—that is, workmen, the only kind of men with whom he really cared to have
                  anything to do.
               And then, too, though unskilled in ready and graceful speech, Alek could feel and
                  cherish the emotions of a great heart,—a heart seemingly formed by nature in a
                  rustic work-shop, but where, as everywhere else in this rustic region, there was
                  an abundance of material, of the soundest and best quality. As he went forth at
                  early dawn with axe, or hoe, or scythe, or with whip beside his team, to the
                  business of the day, attended perhaps by a hired man or his boy-brothers, or only by his constant companion, the
                  heavy, shaggy, half-Indian and half-Newfoundland dog, Lion, who everybody said was
                  like his master in knowing more than he could tell—wherever Alek might be, and
                  however employed, the sense of an ever-present and all-seeing Power was ever with
                  him; not a terror or restraint, but a high companion and friend,—a friend
                  possessing every power but that of injustice or unkindness; one with whom he might
                  happily and profitably commune at any moment and all the time, or whom he might
                  neglect and turn his thoughts away from at any time, without giving offence,
                  though with great loss to himself. He saw in the dew-grass, in the fresh morning
                  flowers, in the merry birds flitting among the branches, in the brisk squirrel,
                  who, secure in his lofty perch, chattered a defiant reply to the big and shaggy
                  Lion barking a good-natured good-morning beneath his tree,—in all these, and in
                  everything around and beyond him, Alek saw the unfailing goodness and the
                  persevering workmanship of his great and unseen, but not unknown, companion and
                  friend. And he felt that, in the companionship of nature's God, there could be no
                  want of society; and with the evidences of His works everywhere about him, it was
                  a noble business to WORK. And as he thought of this great Companion, and how his
                  own comprehension was enlarged by communing with him, and increased knowledge gave
                  increased power of comprehension, he thought how excellent it was to gain much
                  knowledge and enlarge the resources and the power of thought; and he resolved to
                  know all that he could learn from nature, or men, or books. He did not wish to
                  change his pursuits or position in life, for he was content with both, and had not
                  thought that there might be a worthier or happier. The germ of restless worldly
                  ambition had not yet begun to develop itself within him.
               But yet he knew well that there was a busy and ambitious, an exciting and
                  magnificent world, afar off, beyond his humble and happy sphere. Beyond the hills
                  of his father's farm, and the higher hills of neighboring farms, successively
                  swelling to mountains toward the north, arose the vast chain whose dark,
                  forest-clad sides ascended and blended with the gray mist and the blue sky, till
                  their white tops were lost in the clouds. Beyond these, he knew that the road
                  through the "Notch" led to the busy tumult of a very different kind of life,—to
                  gay and populous towns, and proud and wealthy cities, filled with the commerce and
                  fed with the riches which the St. Lawrence receives from opposite sides of the
                  great world.
               The Saco, too, rolls its impetuous waters from amidst those mountains on the
                  hither side, now winding its dark, and devious way through trackless forests,
                  undisturbed by man or animal, except by the leaping of the salmon, or the smaller
                  fry of the finny tribe, or by the plash of their fierce and cunning pursuers, the
                  otter, or mink, or hawk, or by the rush of the timorous deer from the gaunt
                  pursuing wolf, or the crossing of the prowling bear or stately moose,—unfrequented
                  by man or animal, except by the wild beast or Indian,—ever rushing, and eddying,
                  and rolling over its rocky or sandy bed, now dashing over an opposing precipice,
                  now leaping and chafing in white foam down a long and rocky descent, now seeming
                  to pause a moment in the peaceful bosom of a dark-fringed and white-shored, quiet
                  lake,—yet ever through deep forests, or over opposing precipices, or down steep rapids, or through quiet lakes, or amid
                  green meadows, rolling its waters to the ocean.
               As Alek would sometimes visit its summer solitude, or skate upon its wintry
                  expanse of ice, he would think to what strange scenes and agitating pursuits this
                  river's course, or yonder mountain-pass, might lead him, and how perhaps, his
                  sagacity to discern, and perseverance to strive, and strength to do, might find or
                  force a path to distinction among the striving crowd; for Alek, as has been
                  intimated, was not of a disposition to distrust his own powers, but, on the
                  contrary, had much of that feeling of capability which vigorous youth and rustic
                  inexperience usually inspire even on the most unassuming persons. Yet he felt no
                  temptation to engage in the world's strife; he clung to his quiet home, to the
                  peace and plenty of his paternal roof, to the constant and careful love of his
                  honored and venerated parents, the watchful affection of his elder sister the
                  endearing fondness of Frances, whom everybody loved, and to the boys, Billy and
                  Tommy, who, whatever others might think, looked upon Alek as their all-endowed and
                  all-accomplished leader and instructor.
               We will not further describe the different members of the family to the reader,
                  until they have occasion to appear in the coming incidents of this history. There
                  was nothing very peculiar in the others. Frances was chiefly remarkable for her
                  grace and loveliness; and Alek chiefly so, at least to the generality of people,
                  for his awkwardness and homeliness, although nature had given him form and
                  features which art might rejoice to train and polish, and place among the
                  favorites of fashion.
               In every New England town there is a place where its influence fluence and fashion
                  centre. It is generally near the territorial centre, and is known as "The
                  Village," "The Corner," or sometimes "The Meeting-house;" this latter appellation
                  being derived from its church edifice, which is the chief architectural ornament
                  of the town, and always on Sundays and holidays the great centre to which all
                  worthy people converge for worship and social reünion. The town-house, with the
                  selectmen's and town-clerk's office, and generally a tavern, a store or two, where
                  all varieties of merchandise are sold, a few mechanics shops and houses, a
                  physician's, and perhaps a lawyer's office, sometimes a high school, and a few
                  houses of the more wealthy or aspiring class, combine to give it an air of
                  magnificence in the eyes of home-born and home-staying townsmen. Here, of course,
                  is to be found whatever pretension of gentility the town affords. There is enough
                  of society for emulation, and comparison, and criticism, and whatever else of good
                  or evil grows out of social proximity. Here the singers meet for a weekly concert.
                  Here is the quarterly military training, and here the annual speeches and guns in
                  honor of our glorious independence are fired off, and the occasional ball, or
                  "sociable," is held. To each town this central village what the capital is to the
                  state,—a place which all regard with a blended feeling of pride, jealousy, and
                  admiration.
               Our neighborhood was somewhat remote from the centre of the town, so that we
                  generally rode, when business, or recreation, or devotion, called us thither. In
                  winter, Alek would delight to harness his favorite colts a spirited and
                  well-matched pair—to the big "pung," and, filling it with all the younger members
                  of the family, and smuggling in, when possible, a fair cousin or two, give loose
                  rein, and scamper away through clouds of
                  snow, and perilous drifts, with boys, girls, horses, and the faithful Lion, all
                  equally zealous and eager in the duty of Sunday devotions, and quite outrunning
                  the zeal of the father and mother, the staid deacon and his placid wife, and the
                  serious mare that followed soberly behind. Yet often in such cases it might be
                  seen how zeal outruns discretion, verifying the maxim, "the more haste, the worse
                  speed," as when a pair of high-mettled steeds are harnessed to "pung" filled with
                  not too serious boys and girls, and driven by a Jehu who fears a snow-bank as a
                  pig fears a clover-field. Were there not some smashings, and some overturnings,
                  and some premature buryings, and some unexpected resurrections? And did not Alek
                  always find a plausible reason for such disasters, though the others declared he
                  did it on purpose? There are many reminiscences of that sort, which we, surviving
                  relics of those giddy days, recall to each others' recollection in our sober
                  meetings.
               We always noticed that these accidents never happened when Margaret Murray was of
                  our party. She was the only daughter of a neighbor, distantly related, who lived
                  about a mile from Deacon Arbor's, in the direction opposite from the
                  meeting-house. She would sometimes visit her cousin Frances of a Saturday, and
                  pass the night, and would, of course, be one of the party to fill the "pung," and
                  share the perils of the Sunday pilgrimage of devotion. At such times, though the
                  colts would prance as proudly and fly as swiftly through the snow as ever, yet the
                  pung would keep right-side up, and bring its lively freight safe to the
                  meeting-house steps; so that, by oft-repeated observation, it came to be
                  understood that the pung would not tip over when Margaret Murray was in it. Alek
                  always had a reason, but the girls said that the pung would not hear to reason,
                  except when Margaret was there.
               But every rule has its exceptions, and the pung once forgot to be reasonable,
                  although the fair Margaret was on board. It happened on this
                  wise:
               An old lady from Portland was making a visitation in our neighborhood, taking
                  turns at every eligible house where a claim of acquaintance or hospitality could
                  gain admittance for her. The slightest invitation which civility, in such a
                  neighborhood, requires to be bestowed on even a disagreeable acquaintance, was
                  construed by her into an earnest wish for at least a week's sojourn; during which
                  time she would manage to pry into every one's affairs and make herself as
                  meddlesome and disagreeable as possible. She had great claims to "gentility," upon
                  which she plumed herself, and upon the grounds of which she, as a matter of
                  course, seemed to expect, as she certainly managed to get, a great share of
                  deference and attention. Reverence to age, and respect for even its caprices and
                  weaknesses, are traits of New England character; and old Mrs. Simperkins had no
                  delicate scruples about stretching the chain of toleration to its utmost tension.
                  So that, although ignorant, conceited, vulgar-minded, and mischievous, she managed
                  to command the best attentions and hospitalities of our town for two mortal
                  months, of which two weeks were divided between Major Murray's and Deacon Arbor's,
                  where her affectations and pretensions, her shallowness and conceit, had pretty
                  nearly neutralized the natural respect and welcome accorded to aged womanhood. Not
                  that this feeling found utterance even in private, though every one felt that it
                  would be a relief to be free from her society. It may be mentioned that she
                  claimed to be "a hinglish lady," and to
                  have been "heducated hin the 'ighest order hof society," and to be quite
                  conversant with "duchesses, countesses, and hall the 'igh life hof Lunnun." The
                  probability is, that she had been employed in some cockney milliners
                  establishment, this being her occupation in Portland, where she had temporarily
                  shut up shop to come upon her mission among us.
               Alek, although so tolerant of everybody, and especially deferential to the claims
                  of age and womanhood, was quite disgusted with the old lady's character;
                  especially with the shallow hypocrisy which she wore, like her ribbons and
                  ruffles, as the advertisement of her trade. But the chief annoyance was her
                  constant claim to be present in all the social gatherings of the young people,
                  where her society was always felt to be superfluous.
               It happened that Margaret Murray came on the Saturday of Mrs. Simperkins' week at
                  the deacon's, and that three or four other young friends "happened in," which made
                  as near an approach to a "party" as might be allowable at a deacon's on a Saturday
                  evening. A fire was built in the "fore-room," and there was a cheerful time. We
                  had tea, and toast, and doughnuts, and pies, and all the plenty of a substantial
                  farmhouse supper, where people eat as they do everything else,—in earnest. We had
                  conversation and sober amusements, as usual, till the "old folks" had retired to
                  their room, which they always did in season to allow an hour or two of livelier
                  play to the young; and there we were as merry as we could very well be, though all
                  were secretly annoyed at Mrs. Simperkins' presence, who not only remained, but
                  assumed, as usual, to be the important personage of the company. We boys,
                  including Alek, were not only vexed by her presence, but that the girls should
                  show so much deference to her pretensions, and so perversely decline ours; which
                  vexation, however, we swallowed with our supper; and, with the apples and nuts,
                  and a stolen kiss or two, we made ourselves about as happy as usual.
               Next morning, after breakfast, Alek had the colts harnessed to the pung a little
                  earlier than usual, as he was careful to do whenever Margaret was to be one of the
                  party; for it had happened sometimes that the major and his wife, who had to pass
                  by the deacon's on the way to meeting, had come along and had called to take
                  Margaret along with them, much to our dissatisfaction. I suppose we had all a
                  secret presentiment of Mrs. Simperkins' society; though nothing was said till the
                  pung was brought to the door, when, there she stood, with her bland and malicious
                  smile, the first one ready, and evidently prepared to take the first place in our
                  conveyance. This was bearing pretty hard on Alek's patience, and he ventured
                  gently to suggest that she had better ride with the old folks; that the pung was
                  not so comfortable as the sleigh; that the colts were very wild, and the roads
                  much drifted, and we were almost sure to be upset. But Mrs. Simperkins, who had,
                  doubtless, learned that the pung never upset with Margaret in it, was deaf to all
                  remonstrances; and, being supported by the girls, who apparently enjoyed our
                  vexation, although sharing in it themselves, she crowded herself into the party.
                  It was remarkable that the colts, which, being well trained, were generally very
                  quiet during the process of loading, now, in spite of Alek's reining and scolding
                  them, and snapping the whip, or perhaps having some secret divination of their
                  master's present mood, were uncommonly restive and unaccommodating, starting
                     backwards and forwards as the girls
                  were crowding into their places, and pitching them in every direction; and
                  especially when Mrs. Simperkins was clambering into her seat they gave a sudden
                  start, which, but for the girls around her, would have tumbled her over; but, as
                  if to make amends, they were very quiet when Margaret, who got in last, was taking
                  her seat. Sagacious colts they were!
               But after all this difficulty we started off in fine style, and I could see, by a
                  pleased twinkle in Alek's eye, that there was fun of some kind ahead. The colts
                  scampered, the snow flew, the girls screamed alternately with excitement or
                  terror, as we dashed along through the blinding drifts, until, about half-way to
                  the meeting-house a tremendous bank of snow loomed up directly in the road,
                  presenting an apparently impassable barrier. We knew very well that Alek could
                  guide us by it, or through it, or shipwreck us in it, at his option; and, but for
                  Margaret's presence, should have expected the latter, which indeed I began to
                  suspect would be our lot, at any rate. This suspicion was soon confirmed, when, as
                  we neared the drift, Alek quickly placed one foot outside the box, and one hand
                  under an arm of Margaret, who sat very near, and, giving the reins a shake and a
                  jerk, in an instant we saw him spring, with Margaret on his arm, from the right
                  side of the pung, and at the same moment we were all floundering over head and
                  ears in the snow-bank on the opposite side, while the horses were plunging, almost
                  completely buried in the snow. As we struggled out of our awkward positions, we
                  saw Alek disentangling, and backing the horses out of their difficulty, and
                  Margaret standing in a smooth, hard place, entirely untouched by the disaster, but
                  looking with great sympathy upon our distress; though, being bundled and bound up
                  in wrappers, cloaks, shawls, and furs, she could scarcely move to give the least
                  assistance. However, we struggled bravely, helping each other to a perpendicular
                  position as fast as possible; and Alek, having relieved and righted the team, and
                  put Margaret in the pung, soon came to our assistance. He was full of apologies
                  and explanations; but he evidently felt like a man who had begun the day very
                  well. He was over-profuse in his aid and sympathy for poor Mrs. Simperkins, whose
                  crushed bonnet, and draggled ribbons, and general derangement of millinery, gave
                  good color of justice to the anger of her countenance. I think that a sense of
                  having over-punished the old lady reäcted upon his generous nature, so as really
                  to kindle a flame of kindness toward her; for he was very careful to soothe her
                  fears, and convey her safely the rest of the way, and upon our return urged her to
                  ride back with us, assuring her there would be no danger of another overturn. She
                  would not, however, venture herself with us again, but rode with the old folks;
                  and, what was sadder still, we had to part with Margaret, who, as usual, returned
                  home with her father and mother. However, we all went home in good spirits,
                  especially Alek, who looked as though he had gained much good from Parson
                  Boreman's sermon, and had acquired a stock of charity and good-humor sufficient to
                  outlast the visitations of a dozen Mrs. Simperkinses.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               DEAR images of early days, when life was full of freshness, when the glad young
                  blood bounded through elastic veins, and an overflowing vitality supplied the
                  nerves with energy, and the heart with abundant feeling! Sweet were our daily
                  duties, dear were our ever-recurring social enjoyments, and bright our
                  anticipations. Or, if a pang of disappointment, of jealousy, or some fancied
                  injury, pierced our sensitive bosoms, how soon was the wound healed, and the pain
                  forgotten.
               Of all the models of propriety, of quiet, unassuming dignity, softened with
                  gentleness,—of all the daughter-like and wife-like and mother-like qualities which
                  go to make up a perfect woman,—I have seen none surpassing my remembrance of Helen
                  Arbor. She was the elder sister of Alek, and, like most elder sisters, the
                  best-instructed, best-dispositioned, and best-qualified member of the family. The
                  father might be tardy, but Helen was always prompt. The mother might forget, but
                  Helen always remembered. Alek might blunder, but Helen did everything rightly.
                  Even sweet Frances might sometimes be wayward or mischievous, or in some way
                  betray her descent from Eve; but Helen might have been born free from all original
                  sin (if such a thing had been possible in her father's creed), as she certainly
                  grew up and lived without any visible faults of her own. Helen was not strikingly
                  beautiful, though everybody allowed that she was good-looking; and the girls,
                  especially those who had pretensions of their own to beauty, all declared that she
                  was full as handsome as Frances.
               But, though thus endowed and graced with all the excellences which would have made
                  her a treasure of a wife, to a man worthy of her, Helen was now twenty-five, and
                  still single, and even, without the reputation of ever having had a suitor. I know
                  not how it was, but there was something so mind-like in her countenance, so much
                  apparent depth of judgment and power of discernment, that the most presumptuous
                  spark had never ventured an approach to flirtation; and more serious suitors, if
                  they had ever appeared, had been quietly dismissed, and the world was none the
                  wiser.
               It may here be recorded that Helen's maternal ancestry were of Quaker descent.
                  Mrs. Arbor, generally called "Aunt Deborah," as everybody likes to call so good a
                  woman, was the grand-daughter of Mathew Purington, a prominent Friend before and
                  during the Revolution, and who, living near Boston in those troubled times, had
                  "borne testimony" against the violence of both sides, to both General Washington
                  and General Howe, in a manner characteristic of his faith. Aunt Deborah spent her
                  childhood and formed her early associations among the descendants of the old
                  Quaker, who are now numerous, and form a considerable portion of the "meeting"
                  still flourishing near its original locality, which is now the heart of a city
                  famous all over the United States for its manufacture of shoes.
               Aunt Deborah was not born a member of the sect, her mother having been "read out of meeting" for
                  choosing a husband who was not a member thereof; but she honored and perhaps
                  prided herself in her Quaker ancestry, and, besides practising their common
                  virtues, she retained many of their peculiar sentiments, especially a faith in the
                  "inward light," which, being cherished and followed, she believed to be a sure
                  guide, not only in spiritual, but also in worldly affairs; and that warnings and
                  revelations to things important to be avoided or to be done were thus communicated
                  to the spiritually minded. This undoubted faith of Aunt Deborah was confirmed, not
                  only by early teachings and the really remarkable experiences of early Friends,
                  but also by her own experience in frequent cases, one of which came under my own
                  observation, and is so impressed on my memory that I can hardly proceed without
                  telling it.
               It happened that Alek and I went one day to a distant part of the town, to give to
                  a poor man, who had been disabled by accident, a day's work in harvesting. Among a
                  few others who were gathered for the same purpose was Josiah Brown, a strong,
                  active, and generally good-natured fellow enough, but of a violent temper when
                  provoked. A difficulty arose between him and Alek, about a matter which was
                  afterwards explained, but which produced much ill-feeling and harsh language
                  between them at the time, and which, but for the presence of others, might have
                  ended in blows; for Josiah was very violent, and Alek, though averse to a quarrel,
                  had hardly enough of his brave Quaker ancestor's blood or spirit to bear violence
                  without retaliation. However, they parted without anything more serious than hard
                  words and hard thoughts, which, to Alek's peaceful mind, were an unpleasant
                  burthen, though it seemed to be pretty much worn off and forgotten before we
                  reached home. Alek attended to his outdoor affairs, and went in to supper with his
                  usual good-natured look; but his quick eye noticed that his mother looked graver
                  than usual. He knew that she could not have heard of the quarrel, for it had taken
                  place just before he started for home, and no one came before him, or could have
                  passed him on the road, or could have any motive to tell his mother of so trifling
                  but unpleasant a matter. But when the family were out of the room, to his great
                  surprise she said to him, "My son, have you had a quarrel with anybody this
                  afternoon?"
               "A quarrel!" said Alek, forcing a laugh; "with whom, and for what? You know I am
                  no quarreller. You might as well think of your grandfather Purington's
                  quarrelling."
               "Yes; but, Alek," continued his mother, "I feel impressed to ask you if you have
                  quarrelled with anybody,—with Josiah Brown, for instance, or anybody else?"
               Alek saw that evasion was out of the question, and replied, "Well mother, I did
                  talk to Josiah Brown rather plain, perhaps, but I said nothing but what was true
                  and right."
               "My son," said his mother, "you doubtless said what was true, but
                  what was not right to say, at least in the spirit of anger. Now, my
                  son, you think that Josiah Brown has done you some wrong, and I will tell you how
                  to get the advantage of him. Will you take my counsel?"
               "Yes, mother, I always take your counsel."
               "Well, Alek, in the first place forgive in your heart whatever injury Josiah may
                  have done you; then examine candidly whether you have not done him some wrong, in
                  his feelings or otherwise, which ought to be confessed; and, whether you have or
                  not, go to him at the first opportunity, and be reconciled."
               
               "I will, mother. But who told you anything about it?"
               "No one, my son: it was impressed on me about an hour before you came
                  home."
               "Well, mother, that was just the time I had the words with Josiah."
               Alek told me, the next day, of this conversation with his mother, adding that he
                  believed she knew his very thoughts, and that it was of no use to keep any secret
                  from her.
               "In that case," said I, "you are well guarded, for you have both God and your
                  mother watching you. I think you'll go pretty straight."
               "Well, I mean to do just that very thing," said Alek.
               Ah, Alek! trust not thus in your own strength; for it is spiritual as well as
                  carnal pride which goeth before destruction, and a self-righteous as well as a
                  haughty spirit before a fall! And yet Alek's moral strength and firmness might
                  seem reliable. It had already been often proved, and the very next evening, after
                  his day's work, he rode over to Job Brown's, found Josiah, and, offering his hand,
                  said, "I was wrong yesterday—let us overlook the affair."
               "O, no, I was wrong," said Josiah, melting at once; "I am sorry you came to me in
                  this way—I mean I wish I had gone to you; but, I hadn't spunk enough to do it,
                  although I found out, soon after you went away, that I was entirely in the
                  wrong—it was all my mistake. But how can you say you were wrong, when you know you
                  were entirely in the right?"
               "I mean," said Alek, "that I was wrong in losing my temper, and using hard
                  language; but it is none of my merit finding that out, and coming to own it. It's
                  all mother's doings; and you may be sure when I do anything right, or mend
                  anything wrong, that mother has a hand in it."
               "Well," said Josiah, "you have mended your wrong, if you did any, and left me no
                  chance to mend mine, and that I call getting the advantage of me. Now, I only ask
                  you, when you see me play the blackguard again, just give me a good kicking, and
                  I'll take it kindly, and thank you into the bargain."
               Alek laughed, and, after going into the house and chatting with the family a
                  while, went homewards feeling quite comfortable, reflecting what a mother he had
                  to give good advice, and especially thinking of the remarkable coincidence of
                  language in his mother's counsel, and Josiah's confession that he had got
                     the advantage of him.
               
               "There is something," said Alek, "in this 'inward light,' that is wonderful.
                  Mother says we may all have it by attending to it; but I think it won't come easy
                  to any of us, except Helen. She's got it, safe enough, though she says nothing
                  about it."
               Thus meditated Alek, while his colt, with loose rein and at his own pace, bore him
                  quickly home.
               "All right, mother!" said Alek, exultingly, as he came into the kitchen.
               "Yes, all right, my son," said his mother, just as if she knew where he had been,
                  and all about it.
               Josiah Brown told me, a good while after, about Alek's coming to reconcile the
                  matter. "And," said he, "that just cut me the worst kind. But there is one
                  comfort,—he gave his mother credit for it, and it's my mind them Arbors wouldn't
                  be so much better than everybody else, if it wasn't for their mother. It does a fellow more good to have her just
                  speak to him, than to hear Parson Boreman preach seven years."
               Alek's mother had once reproved Josiah, when a boy, for swearing at his horse, and
                  with such good effect that folks said he went home and asked pardon of his horse,
                  on his knees. That might not be true, but it is a fact that he broke himself of
                  the habit of swearing.
               People everywhere admitted Aunt Deborah's excellence, and that Helen was just like
                  her; and thought it a pity that she should not marry, and bring up just such
                  another family, instead of living and dying an old maid, as she was likely to so
                  do. From this latter destiny there could be no doubt many a nice young man would
                  be glad to save her, if he had only the courage to "propose;" but, for want of it,
                  or some other cause, the prospects in that direction looked rather blank.
               But it takes everybody to know everything. The world is a prying, inquisitive
                  medley of all sorts of folks, having all sorts of notions, and finding out and
                  guessing all sorts of things; mid yet it often happens that some quiet,
                  simple-seeming, grave-looking old gentleman or lady knows a thing or two, of which
                  the slightest whisper would set the same shrewd, prying, self-conceited world a
                  wondering for a week, and buzzing, for month. For instance, if Aunt Deborah should
                  tell all that was thought, said, and done, when she, and Helen, and the deacon,
                  visited Uncle Lemuel's family at Saco, three years ago this winter;—how Cousin
                  Hezekiah, the schoolmaster, at first eyed her as keenly as if he thought she might
                  in some way belong to him, and then so timidly spoke and shook hands with her as
                  if he feared she might belong to somebody else,—and then was so anxious, and
                  inquisitive, and communicative, as if that question must be settled soon in one
                  way or another; and how he invited Helen to his school, and introduced her to all
                  his favorite scholars among the girls and young women, but not to one of the boys
                  or young men; and how he carried her home from school alone, forgetting to invite
                  the girls to jump in and fill up the sleigh, as usual; and how flustered and
                  fidgety, and yet how very happy, he seemed, all the time of her visit; and how
                  very grave and pathetic he looked when they came away; and how he put a large hot
                  stone in the bottom of the sleigh, and tucked the buffalo-robe about her, as
                  though he supposed she might be some tender vegetable, very suitable to be cooked
                  over a hot stone, but not hardy enough to be exposed to the frost; and how he
                  shook hands with her at parting four times as long as was necessary and proper;
                  and how, since that time, Aunt Nabby, his mother, had written to Aunt
                  Deborah, her mother, every three months, enclosing a letter directed,
                  in a nice, schoolmaster hand, to Miss Helen Arbor;—all these things, which Aunt
                  Deborah often talked over with the deacon, and sometimes with Helen, what if she
                  had hinted to some sagacious secret-finder for the wonder-loving world? How would
                  the wonder-loving world have stared, and buzzed, and looked wise for month! Ah,
                  busy world, be not too impatient! Everything shall be known in due time. In the
                  warm and mellow mould of all bounteous earth seeds of mysterious organization lie
                  hid and unsuspected. Yet not too long shall they remain in their secret
                  hiding-places, for the genial season comes on apace, when they shall burst their
                  dark coverings, and bear the glossy-leaves, the bright flowers, and the fragrance
                  of their destiny. So from the dark unknown do we arise to light and life. We are
                  nourished in weakness, imbecility is taught to reason, and the low instincts give place to high aims, until the
                  soul aspires to a destiny which only the hereafter can reveal.
               Deacon Arbor held, with unswerving steadfastness, the creed of New England
                  doctrine, as stamped and moulded into the consciences of their own and succeeding
                  generations by the Pilgrim Fathers. He knew, indeed, that it had been disputed and
                  strongly controverted; and perhaps his own meditative mind had been disquieted
                  with doubts about doctrines while religious consistency required him to hold fast.
                  But his doubts had never disturbed his faith in the goodness of God, in the truth
                  of his Redeemer, and the blessed salvation which he felt assured he should attain,
                  by direct communion with him, even though the Westminster Catechism should
                  err.
               In Helen's mind were blended, in finer and softer texture, yet with equal
                  strength, the elements of her father's faith and the mysterious "inward light"
                  inherited from her mother. If she meditated less upon the "plan" unfolded in the
                  catechism and creed of her paternal church, she received them with perhaps a more
                  doubting faith from their very incomprehensibility, and drew richer consolations
                  and higher, motives to holiness from the depth of doctrines too divine to be
                  subjected to the scrutiny of human investigation, or to be questioned by human
                  reason. In her were manifest the results of that vital piety which, independent of
                  the garb of doctrines surrounding it, penetrates and finds its congenial home, and
                  makes its sanctuary, in the sincere and earnest heart. And though she declined to
                  dispute about matters too high for her, and took no part in the doctrinal
                  discussions which kindled the zeal of neighborly disputants, she well knew how to
                  take the shortest way to the surest knowledge, for she trusted the "true light
                  which lighteth every man that cometh into the world," and that "whoso doeth his
                  will shall know of the doctrine." And therefore her life became, not only the most
                  successful pupilage, but also the best exemplification of Christian truth.
               But still more in the gentle and lovely Frances, whom we generally called Fanny,
                  did piety present its most attractive grace. She seemed born to put to its hardest
                  trial the stern dogma which declares the total depravity of all mankind, and that
                  every descendant of Adam is a child of wrath. A stumbling-block in the Calvinistic
                  believer's path, even from her mother's womb, she grew up a child of grace,
                  recalling to every beholder's mind, as each germ of her nature unfolded the sweet
                  words of him who said, "Of such is the kingdom of heaven." The open, unaffected,
                  childlike, and perfectly natural form of her piety, was a puzzle to those to whom
                  the garb of peculiar solemnity and peculiar phrase seemed essential to religion.
                  She thought and spoke of the Saviour, not as of an awful and mystical being,
                  unapproachable except through prescribed forms, which the initiated must regulate,
                  nor yet as the still more unnatural object of ecstatic adulation and rapturous
                  adoration, but rather as the sure and faithful friend in heaven, to whom she might
                  always turn in confidence as to her earthly father, and to whose arms she would
                  run, if now on earth, with full assurance of the same welcome reception that he
                  gave to the little children of Judea.
               Yet if Fanny was a puzzle to believers in the creed of total depravity, Alek, on
                  the contrary, was an exemplification of its truth. He was often alluded to as
                  showing how the natural man might possess all the amiable qualities of natural
                  goodness, and yet be destitute of saving grace.
               "There is Alek Arbor," they would say; "everybody knows that he is perfectly honest and faithful, and would
                  go further out of his way to do a good turn to a poor person, or to atone for at
                  wrong action, than some Christians that could be named; and yet, after all,
                  everybody knows that he is not a Christian; for, though he understands the Bible
                  very well,—at least, the letter thereof,—and keeps the Sabbath outwardly, yet he
                  has never 'experienced religion,' nor even 'been under conviction.' We must regard
                  him as a child of the devil under the law, and therefore under the curse; for what
                  saith the Scriptures?—'He that is not with me is against me, and he that gathereth
                  not with me, scattereth;' by which we are to understand that we should gather
                  ourselves into the church, or we shall, be scattered as the chaff." This clear and
                  conclusive exposition of Scripture of course completely defined Alek's case.
               And yet, of these devout neighbors, who so confidently and conscientiously settled
                  Alek's spiritual condition, not one would hesitate to grasp his hand in warm
                  friendship, or give him the most hearty welcome to the festivities of his
                  fireside. Even Major Murray, the most reliable, or at least the most unyielding,
                  of the champions of the faith, seemed by no means alarmed at the possible
                  contingency of having this child of the devil for a son-in-law—a contingency which
                  neighborly gossip could not fail to convey to his ears, even if his eyes had
                  failed to discern the signs of the times. But this was only a thing in the common
                  course of the faith, which permits the deacon's progeny and the devil's progeny,
                  like the wheat and tares of Scripture, to grow together till the harvest. Besides,
                  who could know that Alek might not yet be plucked as a brand from the burning?
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  
                     
                        Now—look out—for a—Snowstorm.
                     
                     —FARMER'S ALMANAC.
                  
               
               STERN Winter holds his ancient reign. The cold constellations, who watch his
                  empire from their high places, sparkle with keener lustre. The winds awaken and
                  gather their forces from the valleys and mountain-tops. Their voices roar in wild
                  disorder through the leafless forests, and blend in solemn harmony over wide,
                  dismantled plains, while they fling their fleecy tribute in his path. The night of
                  the busy year! He brings sleep to a million eyes. The insect tribes hide in the
                  rough bark of trees, or in the gray moss at their roots, or bind their silken
                  drapery to the fluttering leaf, and wait in dreamless slumber the vernal breath
                  which shall renew their life. The humble hibernating and amphibious animal make
                  their beds in fissures of the rocks, or dens of the earth, or beneath still
                  waters. Half of nature's life waits in torpid repose the coming spring. But man
                  and the nobler beasts rejoice in the stern, sinew-bracing blasts of winter. To the
                  New England farmer the season comes with welcome. The cares of summer and the
                  bounties of autumn are supplied with a purpose and a use by the requirements of
                  winter. The fleeces of his flock, transformed to comely garments, protect and
                  adorn his family. His well-filled granary and cellar supply the solid nutriment
                  and savory cheer which generous life and
                  liberal hospitality love. From his mows of fragrant hay he spreads their welcome
                  food before the lowing cattle, and answers the whinnying welcome of his horse with
                  a heaped measure of oats from the bin. From the towering wood-pile huge logs are
                  supplied to the ample chimney, which sends ruddy heat through the capacious
                  kitchen, where the experienced mother, and her neat daughters, pursue their
                  domestic affairs, while the younger fry clamor in their various sports.
               Such was now the cheerful, busy scene in Deacon Arbor's kitchen. There has been
                  even a more than common diligence there for a few days past, attended with an air
                  of mystery portending the coming of more than common events. Baskets of apples
                  have been brought from the cellar, peeled, and consigned to the chopping-tray,
                  compounding a delicious mass, which yonder long row of pastry-covered plates shall
                  soon receive and bear to the hot oven. The voracious mouth of that hot oven! What
                  interminable plates of various pies,—what pots of pork and beans,—what pans of
                  various puddings, and deep platters of chicken pasties,—what swollen loaves of
                  bread, the white and the brown, enter the capacious cavern at the end of this busy
                  week! Yes, it is the end of the week, and the month, and the year. To-morrow is
                  Sunday, and New Year's Day. It is well to welcome the birth of the new year with
                  ample cheer. May it be a happy year, such even as the last! It promises to be so,
                  and is welcomed with abundant bounty. It is welcomed with complacent grace by the
                  benignant parents, with beaming smiles by the expectant daughters, and with the
                  glad and noisy mirth of the uproarious boys, Billy and Tommy, who often press the
                  compliant Alek into their wild sport. He tosses them into the drifting snow. They
                  scream with mingled indignation and delight, and pelt him with snow-balls. Now at
                  once they clasp and entangle his legs, and tumble him into the drift, and strive
                  to keep him down and bury him before he can regain his feet. He struggles and
                  recovers, in spite of their combined efforts. They turn and scamper away, to
                  escape the coming retribution. Billy succeeds, and gains the sanctuary of the
                  kitchen, where he is safe, and where, O, lucky Billy! a mighty pan of doughnuts,
                  hot and smoking from the fatty caldron, greets his sparkling eyes, and invites his
                  watering mouth. He seizes one, and is about to make a general onset. Helen, who
                  presides with the ladle, tells him to be off. She will not have her doughnuts
                  eaten while she is cooking them. Billy insists, but compromises for one more, with
                  which he again ventures forth, in time to learn the fate of Tommy. Luckless Tommy!
                  Alek caught him just as he had gained the door-stone, and threw him into a deep
                  bank of snow, and then wallowed off, with long strides, to visit the cattle in the
                  barn. Tommy had just extricated himself from the smothering bank, and, all white
                  with snow, and panting with exertion, reproaches Billy with having, in the heat of
                  the conflict, made so cowardly a flight, quite forgetful that he had himself
                  joined in it, and only lost the race by chance, when overtaken. Billy mollifies
                  him with his extra doughnut, and they hasten to the barn, where Alek promises them
                  sport in breaking out the roads, as a recompense for their defeat.
               It has snowed all the night, and now the morning has far advanced, and still it
                  snows. Abroad, far as can be seen, over the broad fields, in the deep valleys,
                  upon the hills steep sides, is spread the deep and still-accumulating wintry
                  store. The fences disappear, the shrubs and bushes vanish from the landscape scape. The river's winding track is
                  hidden. The trees of the orchard, and the long rows that border the lane on either
                  side, seemingly shortened in their trunks, struggle to raise their over-burthened
                  branches above the overwhelming snow. From up in the sky still come down the
                  exhaustless stores. Looking upward, how dark and murky seem those winged
                  messengers of the clouds! Looking downward and abroad, how sublimely they tell
                  their silent part of the great story of earth and heaven! How awful the aspect to
                  him who sees in the storm the hand of Him who directs it! How dreadful to the
                  misguided or improvident wanderer, who has no shelter from its unpitying rigor!
                  Yet how cheerful the contrast of its out-door inclemency renders the bright and
                  busy kitchen, where the blazing fire sends forth its radiant heat, blended with
                  the music of the kettle and the fragrance of the coming feast!
               So dark and threatening seems the storm without so pleasant and promising the
                  scene within. There the drifts swell higher and higher with the cold, driving
                  snow. Here the fire blazes higher and higher, and higher swell the piles of good
                  cheer. The inhospitalities of the storm without are more than compensated by the
                  hospitality within. Our garrison is supplied with provision and stored with
                  ammunition to withstand the siege of winter, till the tardy April sun shall come
                  to the rescue. And full are we, every mother's son and daughter too, of the spirit
                  and bravery which dares to sally forth and defy the storm.
               Yes, it is even so; we will not be enclosed and pent up here. Why, the roads are
                  piled above the fences with impassable drifts, and still the snow is coming down
                  and heaping up! Shall the elements be so active without, and we idle within? And
                  see,—a flock of snow-birds come as if from the clouds, and hop from spray to
                  spray, and from limb to limb of the bare lilacs and plum-trees in the garden.
                  Their quick and lively chirp foretells the coming of friends. Other omens have
                  indicated as much. The kettle sings the sleigh-bell tune; brands fall from the
                  fire, and stand on end in the corner; two strangers were seen in Helen's cup of
                  tea, last evening; a cricket hopped across the floor, and the cat has twice leaped
                  upon a chair to look out at the window. The good mother has carefully noted all
                  these signs, and even Helen, generally incredulous, seems to believe them; while
                  Fanny, with a roguish dimple, says she guesses that the letter which came last
                  Saturday evening, and which she was not permitted to read, was the thing which
                  inclined mother and Helen to put so much faith in signs.
               But there is evidently too much expectation and energy to brook confinement. Alek
                  and the boys have returned from the barn all agreed upon the necessity of breaking
                  out the roads, and the deacon says he guesses it may be as well to do so. The
                  deacon is district surveyor this year, and, therefore, his decree is the law of
                  the road. Alek had a whisper with his mother this morning, and gave a nod in
                  reply, such as are often the seeds of mighty resolves and deeds. A hasty and ample
                  meal soon spreads the table, and is as quickly despatched.
               And now the four strong oxen are brought from the barn, and ranged in their yokes
                  in due order, with Alek by their side to lead the way. Onward they move, now
                  wallowing along, and forcing their unwieldy weight through the yielding snow; now
                  floundering inextricably in a drift which buries them to their backs; now, again,
                  partly uncovered by the quick aid of a
                  dozen snow-shovels,—for several men and boys, notified by Alek's prudent
                  foresight, have arrived,—they struggle onwards with a vigor and perseverance which
                  never fails to force the most formidable entrenchments of winter, and to keep open
                  the lines of communication between beleaguered villages. Through drifts and banks,
                  with cheers and shouts, they force their way onward to the village, gathering
                  reinforcements from every farm-house which they pass.
               Colonel Bowler's was the first house on the way. The old colonel—the father and
                  grandfather of a throng of Bowler men, and Bowler women, and Bowler boys, and
                  Bowler girls, the former already in the snow-subduing party, and the latter
                  peeping from every window—was as lively as any of them. With his old military
                  spirit, the spirit of '76, as he jocosely said, though with no claim of
                  revolutionary honors, for he was but a boy in those days, but because his own age
                  now approached that ever-honored date, he gave out his orders, and marshalled his
                  reinforcement.
               "Isaac, yoke old Brown and Turk, and put them ahead; put Star and Bright behind,
                  and the steers in the middle; hitch 'em to the logging-sled, and fasten the
                  bob-sled behind; roll on two of the mill-logs, and let the butts drag behind. Old
                  Brown and Turk will show you where the road ought to be, and the logs will make
                  some little marks, so you'll know it. Tom, Harry, Jim, and the rest of you, put
                  ahead with your shovels, and clear the drifts. Adjutant, my boy, must
                     you go? Well, tell your mother to tie your cap over your ears, and
                  pull a pair of stockings over your shoes."
               Sammy was the youngest of the boys, only seven years old, and the colonel called
                  him his adjutant. The colonel was fond of his grandson, and loved to use his old
                  military terms and phrases.
               "I am getting to be old," he would say, "but I don't need the old man's staff, and
                  I don't think I shall, so long as I can keep up my military staff. The adjutant is
                  a brave soldier; he puts away my chapeau" (so the colonel called his raccoon-cap),
                  "and brings my slippers, and reads me a chapter in the Testament, and two pages of
                  Weems' Life of Washington, every night. And a brave fellow, too, he is with his
                  rations. Don't he know how to forage for apples and doughnuts? He beats Johnny
                  Horner with his Christmas pie, and stows away a bowl of pudding and milk in no
                  time;—but he is a sad dog to sleep in the morning,—next winter we shall teach him
                  the tune of 'early to rise.' We shall beat the reveille in his ears at day-break. But, adjutant, bring a mug of
                  cider, and you, girls, go and draw it for him; the oxen are ready, and we'll have
                  a fair start." The colonel never forgot anything, especially the cider.
               Refreshed with rest and cider, and reinforced with men, and boys, and oxen, and
                  steers, away, shouting, and plunging, and wallowing, now shovelling a passage
                  through a huge drift in advance of the oxen, now gathering together on the sleds
                  to crush down the snow, they work their way over the ridge, and down the hill, and
                  through the woods. Old Brown and Turk plod perseveringly on. They are the
                  colonel's boast; the biggest oxen in town by four inches in their girth; the
                  heartiest at a pall, and the surest on the road. The colonel evidently mixes up
                  the merit of the oxen with his own, and, with true military justice, appropriates
                  to himself the laurels won by the prowess of his host.
               And so, plodding, and pushing, and plunging, they work their way ahead. The colonel maintains his post on
                  the long logging-sled, touching up the hinder cattle, and directing the efforts of
                  the boys. He keeps by the heads of Turk and Brown, and Alek with his team lags
                  behind, prepared to take their place again in front, when Turk and Brown shall
                  need relief. Alek has pride in his team, but he will not dispute the palm with the
                  colonel. If it were only Ike, it would be quite another thing. On the other hand,
                  Alek takes undisputed precedence in the matter of colts, which the colonel affects
                  to think quite beneath the dignity of men, though he allows Alek's to be pretty
                  nags enough.
               "But what a waste of time to drive them! Old Turk and Brown will take him once a
                  week to the village, for his newspaper, and take a load of wood, besides. Oxen are
                  the only reliable cavalry for the farmer. What are colts good for?"
               Thus arguing the superiority of his team, and directing the general-force, the
                  colonel gets over the ridge, and down the valley, and through the wood. Just
                  beyond the wood, near "Bragly's Corner," are the cheerless-looking, dilapidated
                  house and hovel and shop of Bang Barker, the thriftless, broken-down blacksmith.
                  In the house is his lean, discontented, much-abused, and equally abusive wife. She
                  was born with some of woman's blood in her veins, and some of the wolf's.
                  Circumstances have suppressed the woman, and developed the wolf. Romulus and Remus
                  would have found in her a famous nurse; but she would have made Arabs of them,
                  instead of Romans,—at least, such her own progeny have proved. Four darling boys
                  had she brought forth, and brought up, who, with precocious genius, had
                  successively beaten their mother, set fire to the hay-rick, stolen 'Siah Brown's
                  donkey, robbed widow Bowler's turkey-pen, and done numberless other mischiefs,
                  before running away and going to sea, as they had all done before the age of
                  fifteen. One hopeful boy, not yet eleven, and another, "a girl more young than
                  he," as the ballad says, remained. Whether they shall emulate the spirit of their
                  elder brethren, remains yet to be seen. It all depends upon themselves; there is
                  no lack of like education.
               Bang Barker was a broken-down blacksmith. Rum broke him down. Folks say that when
                  he began at Bragly's Corner, twenty years ago, there was not a better prospect for
                  a man in twenty miles. He was then twenty-five, a giant in strength, and a good
                  workman. Even now, there was not a surer hand at giving the right temper to an
                  axe, if he were only drunk enough; or a quicker workman to shoe a yoke of oxen, if
                  he could only be caught sober enough. But he seldom shoes oxen or tempers axes
                  now. The uncertainty of finding him in a right mood for either operation has
                  driven custom another way. When a neighbor came with an axe to temper, he was not
                  drunk enough, and the customer must get a pint at Bragly's for an eye-opener; and
                  when oxen came to be shod, the pint from Bragly's had shut the Cyclops' eyes. A
                  big, bushy-headed, black-bearded, broad-chested, bullying sort of a Cyclops, was
                  Bang. He could throw a barrel of cider over his head, and had knocked down an ox
                  with his fist. His arms were as strong as ever, but his legs tottered under his
                  burly body with uncertain steps, to which not even Bragly's rum could give
                  steadiness.
               In the little slab-covered hovel back of the house stood an old cow, munching some
                  sorry-looking husks and poorly-made hay; and a few forlorn fowls divided
                  themselves between the hovel and the perch, while a discontented pig, who seemed
                     to complain that he was not fat enough
                  to be killed, and put out of this sad and starving world, into a comfortable
                  pork-barrel, hasted from hovel to porch, and from porch to hovel, seeking
                  something which was not to be found.
               In the shop, nearer the road, stood the cold, deserted anvil, by the black, frozen
                  water-trough. There was no coal, nor was there need of any, for iron or steel
                  there was none, save a few outworn ox-shoes and broken links of chain, and a
                  cracked kettle, sent last summer for a hoop, and a skillet with a hole in the
                  bottom, which some old lady, believing in the omnipotence of iron, had sent to be
                  mended; and the fragments of a glass bottle, which accident had dashed, with its
                  precious contents, upon the floor, when last the Vulcan of this forge urged the
                  wheezing bellows, and smote the ringing anvil. All around was the desolation and
                  destitution of improvidence and vice. But yet there was something indicating a
                  recent slight attempt at improvement; for some new panes of glass had recently
                  taken the place of old hats and bundles of rags, which generally stuffed the
                  windows; and some strips of board had been nailed over cracks which the fallen
                  clapboards had long ago exposed, and which had for successive seasons admitted the
                  storms. At sight of those slender signs of improvement, Isaac, who had stopped to
                  give Alek an opportunity to bring his oxen ahead, and take his turn in front,
                  remarked, with a knowing wink, that he guessed Santa Claus had been doing a good
                  chore thereabouts; to which Alek, with an intelligent nod, merely replied, "I
                  guess so."
               Let us now hasten on; for the show is deep and the drifts are high, and there is
                  yet a long way before us. Little help shall we get from the house of Bang, and it
                  is not worth while to call for any. But look, the door opens, and out comes young
                  Ax. A big stocking-leg is drawn upon his head for a cap. The remnants of some
                  bigger body's frock are comfortably enough secured around his lank yet strong and
                  active frame, and a pair of coarse new boots, drawn ostentatiously above his
                  trousers, encase his legs and feet. Ike glanced at the new boots, and winked at
                  Alek, who nodded again, and then started his team in the direction of the pathless
                  road, and Ax joined the jolly group of snowy boys behind.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               MUSE, who from the floating filaments of transient memory spinnest the thread of
                  faithful history, let thy description be brief, lest thy lagging tale tire the
                  courteous reader.
               Away through the deep, obstructing snow, bursting the barricades which the wild
                  mob of warring winds raised, the hardy company are ploughing their way. They now
                  ascend the hill whose summit is distinguished by the proud mansion of Parson
                  Boreman, in front of which four tall Lombardy poplars, like so many posted
                  sentinels, rear their stiff, martial forms, and wave their tall plumes.
               At Bragly's they did not stop;—for when did any help of public good come from
                  Bragly's? Pitiful dribbler of drams, and picker of small coppers and small coins!
                  Little-souled barterer of execrable tea and poisonous tobacco, for eggs of nobler
                  hens and pelts of honest lambs; sneaking measurer of penny tapes and four-penny
                  ribbons; paltry retailer of clay pipes and long-nine cigars; scanty weigher of
                  thin salt-fish, and consumptive pickled mackerel! Let me, while the indignant
                  winds howl around your dwelling, preach you a sermon as we pass. To what purpose
                  is your miserable life, already verging upon three-score? What spot of earth is
                  greener for your existence? What noble inhibition have you ever prompted in
                  another's breast? What onerous emotion have you ever felt in your own? Cowering in
                  the encasement of your own selfishness, spinning around yourself, like the nobler
                  worm, the shroud of your ignoble end, what inscription of infamy shall we scratch
                  upon your grave, to point the contempt of your race? But we will not anticipate.
                  Your epitaph will be worthily written.
               Away from Bragly's let us hasten. Our company have reached the top of the hill by
                  the stately mansion of Parson Boreman, and here they pause. The minister has a
                  noble yoke of oxen, and a sprightly pair of steers, and a strong hired man. They
                  are summoned to aid the struggling band, and soon come forth and are placed in the
                  van. Onward again they drive, not without strong invitations to renew their
                  strength by the cheer of the parson's kitchen.
               While they drive onward, shall we pause at the parson's? It is with some
                  misgivings that we invite the reader to a nearer survey. What with the elegant
                  mansion on the top of the hill, and the tall poplar-trees in front, the fine oxen
                  and steers and their prompt and stalwart driver, and the generously-proffered
                  hospitalities of the kitchen, we must have raised grand ideas of the parson and
                  his dwelling, which closer observation may abate. Not that decent competence and
                  respectability were not there, but that outside show exceeded inward reality.
               A vague idea of sham, and hollowness, and constraint, lurks in the mind of the
                  distant observer, and becomes stronger as observation becomes closer. The grandeur
                  of the house is but the grandeur of needless dimensions, useless clattering
                  window-blinds, faded paint, a veranda with loose and weedy pavement, precarious
                  pillars, and decayed cornices. A lawn
                  fenced with painted palings, swayed and propped from falling by extempore braces;
                  gates of light material, but ambitiously massive proportions, which, refusing to
                  swing upon their loosened hinges, either in or out, are kept by rope or leathern
                  strap in a position obstructing, yet not totally preventing, entrance and exit. A
                  front door so far removed from the family that the huge brass knocker, though it
                  might be used as a battering-ram to force an entrance, could by no means summon an
                  answer from within. An end door—the usual entrance—from which the granite steps
                  seem preparing to step forth on some excursion of their own, having moved each a
                  few inches from its original position, and with different angles of departure. Let
                  us enter.
               The good old parson comes forward to meet us. He is good; for he is a minister. He
                  bids us welcome, and insists that we take off our outward garments. The air of the
                  room feels not too warm. The fire seems to have been not long burning; but we
                  comply. We wish we were boys, and could go into the kitchen, where we suspect
                  there is more comfort, and less gentility. The impression of sham
                  makes us feel chilly. The parson sits in his study-chair, not far removed from his
                  study-table, on which big volumes are piled. These are the tokens of study. Why
                  should they betoken sham?
               
               The parson commences conversation concerning the storm. The topic is soon
                  exhausted. Local news lasts a little longer. He is trying your mind, and taking
                  observations of its drift. It is proper that a parson should presume a religious
                  bias in his visitors. He throws out a religious remark. The current drifts another
                  way. Politics,—he has not hit it. Literature,—uncertain; but the topic is a safe
                  one, and the parson fancies himself at home there. He has been composing a
                  dissertation on the "lost tribes," and their relation to our aborigines. He favors
                  you with his views, fortified by some passages from his manuscript, which is
                  always conveniently near on such occasions. He asks your views on the subject. Of
                  course you know nothing about it. He has you there. He has taken the gauge of your
                  mind, while you are trying to think of something besides sham.
               A rather spruce, good-looking matron comes in from the kitchen. She is Mrs.
                  Boreman, the wife. You try to get rid of your impression of sham. A
                  good-looking old lady is always antagonistic to that idea. Still you do not quite
                  succeed. Another door opens. A spruce, good-looking young lady comes in. That is
                  Miss Boreman, the daughter. You make a desperate effort to throw off the
                  impression of sham. A good-looking young lady should be a perfect
                  antidote. But sham torments you like the nightmare. Miss B. has long
                  since passed her bread-and-butter days; she has passed the days of indiscretion
                  and coquetry; she has passed the days of timid apprehension and reservedness, and
                  she has arrived at that interesting, though uncertain age, when damsels solicitous
                  to please and to ensnare put forth all their attractions. What generous, manly
                  heart but beats responsive to that sentiment, and smothers the thought of
                     sham!
               
               Lucy was she christened; but, from her early teens,—perhaps from her first sigh
                  over her first novel,—her name has been Lucinda. Her altitude is not great, nor is
                  her circumference large; in fact, it seems painfully slender. Nature was not
                  wholly in fault, for whalebone and stays
                  have contracted the limits which nature would have allowed. A thought crosses your
                  mind that the improvement should have been the other way; but you repress naughty
                  thoughts in a presence so divine. The freshness of long-cultivated youthfulness
                  charms you; the elaborate and shining ringlets, dependent in regular order over
                  either cheek, fascinate you; the slender neck and gentle bosom, bounded by
                  delicate lace, enchant you; the graceful ankle and taper foot captivate you. Why
                  should the miserly thought of sham mar your satisfied admiration?
               A pretty table, with a nice work-basket filled with the appropriate implements of
                  female industry, is drawn nearer the fire, and soon those fair fingers and bright
                  eyes commence their proper and practised task. She is apparently netting a silken
                  purse. Sham. The purse has been netting a long time. Every stitch has
                  been taken in the presence of admiring visitors, whose eyes have watched the
                  dextrous movements of those fair fingers with an interest, perhaps, equal with
                  your own. A deeper purpose pervades that gentle heart, and guides those delicate
                  fingers, than that netted purse explains.
               A showy annual lies by her basket, and invites your attention. By way of
                  introducing conversation, you ask permission, and examine it. It is the Religious
                  Souvenir. You commend its binding and engravings. It has pretty sentimental
                  sonnets, and scraps of semi-religious romance. Many of them are pencil-marked in
                  the margin; and so you learn that Miss Lucinda is poetic and sentimental,
                  religious and romantic. What less could you expect? You already knew her to be
                  pretty, and engaging, and diligent. What more could you desire?
               She asks if you like botany, and brings her herbarium. Of course you like botany;
                  but you blunder about corollas and calyxes, and staminas, and stigmas. Lucinda
                  sets you right, and you see that she knows botany. A pretty album follows the
                  herbarium. Miss Lucinda must have had a host of devoted friends, some day, whose
                  "hearts lie buried here." What lots of sublimated sentiments! Friendship, first
                  born of heaven! Platonic love! Remembered regrets! Swelling sighs and eternal
                  farewells! It is evident that Lucinda's lights are fled, her garlands dead, and
                  all but you departed.
               Thank Heaven, you are here at home, and quite competent to the occasion; so you
                  prepare your pencil, which she observing, produces pen and ink, and, under a
                  broken tombstone, you inscribe a complimentary sentiment, in impromptu verse,
                  which you have already written in a score of albums, but too far off to be
                  detected; and so you subscribe your initials, while conscience retorts upon you,
                     "Sham!"
               We are invited to remain to dinner. Let us remain. We feel that some little
                  preparation has been made from the beginning, in that anticipation. It shall not
                  be disappointed. It is worth while to study a little lo those features of society
                  which, though rather commonplace, are not wholly uninstructive. It is fair, and
                  perhaps not wholly unpleasant, to be studied in turn who pay us the compliment of
                  thinking it worth their while.
               From albums and herbariums, to politics the transition seems rather abrupt; but it
                  becomes a necessity, for rural affairs are out of season in mid-winter, and the
                  legislature and congress are in session, and men's minds tend to public affairs.
                  The parson is non-committal; and, therefore, however decided and strong our
                  predilections, we also are
                  
                     non-commital
                     non-committal
                  ; and in this mock-neutral spirit we proceed to discuss the merits of our
                  governmental administration, the qualities of our public men, the chances of
                  prominent political aspirants, the character and spirit of messages, speeches,
                  reports, and other national and state proceedings, till dinner is announced.
               However we may have relished the feast of reason and the flow of soul, and all the
                  elaborate elegances of the parson's parlor, we are happy to change the scene and
                  the subject for the genial and welcome-looking kitchen, the ample and well-spread
                  table, and the good and substantial dinner. It is all that it should be, and well
                  worth the complacent parson's devout and dignified thanks and blessing. Fat ribs
                  of beef and a dainty shoulder of park smoke from the boiling pot, and sweat big
                  tears of shining fat, as if yet panting from their fiery trial. Around them,
                  ranged in due order, is a bounteous vegetable store; potatoes bursting with
                  internal heat, white turnips,—mimic spheres, flattened at the poles,—beets,
                  parsnips, carrots, and cabbage, prove by their size and flavor that the parson has
                  not been unmindful of his own garden while weeding the sins of his parish.
                  Bread,—brown and white,—butter and cheese, such as only a farmer's wife, emulous
                  of good works, can produce; pudding, pies, and doughnuts, which you hope the fair
                  Lucinda helped to flavor, all combine to convince you that, wherever else
                  hollowness and sham prevail, the country kitchen is the last retreat and most
                  impregnable castle of honest, generous life.
               We feel an instinctive reverence for the good parson, whom Heaven blesses with so
                  bountiful a board; and the gentle impression comes upon our minds that there might
                  be a worse mistake than to take the fair Lucinda and settle down somewhere in the
                  midst of so much rural abundance and happiness. Blessed be the benign influences
                  which lie latent in well-packed barrels of pork and beef, and well-filled bins of
                  potatoes and turnips, waiting only the alchemy of the kitchen to expand the frame
                  and the heart of man with healthful strength and generous emotion.
               We are invited to pass the evening, and should like to do so; but other affairs
                  press, and now we must go.
               "Please to come again."
               "Certainly; we shall not fail to do so."
               It is now too late to visit the village. Our company have returned an hour since.
                  But they must break off at Bragly's, to track the road to the school-house. We
                  shall overtake them before they get home. We do overtake them at
                  Colonel Bowler's. Alek has stopped there a few moments. He generally stops there
                  when passing; if he did not, some tears would fall from a bright pair of young
                  eyes. A little girl there calls him uncle. He is not her uncle, nor of kin in any
                  other degree; but there is no name of kindred too dear for her to apply to him.
                  She calls him her dear uncle. He calls her his dear daughter. Well may she call
                  him her dear uncle;—she owes him her life. Well may he call her dear daughter;—it
                  was he who rescued her from a terrible death. This is a tie of love as sacred as
                  that of a father, or at least as sweet. He feels all the luxury of loving the
                  child whose life he has saved; she feels all the gratitude and confiding affection
                  with which a loving child clings to a tender father. The story is now an old one;
                  it happened three years ago. She was then but six years old. But we may as well
                  repeat it now. Alek and the boys have yet to take care of the oxen's dinner and their own. Alek embraces the dear
                  daughter, and promises, for the hundredth time, to take her home to live with him,
                  when he gets a house, and a wife, and a pony; and she—the little Amy—verily
                  believes in that good time coming, and dreams golden dreams.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               SINCE we must stop at Colonel Bowler's to tell our story, propriety requires us to
                  introduce the family. You have seen the old colonel before. He calls himself old,
                  and we will not refuse him the compliment. He is only sixty-seven; but he speaks
                  of verging to seventy-six. This, however, is in reference, to that glorious era of
                  the Revolution.
               Three solid sciences the colonel knows: arithmetic, agriculture and history.
                  Arithmetic from Daboll, agriculture from experience, and history from Weems' Life
                  of Washington. Three lighter arts amuse his leisure: military tactics, poetry, and
                  music. Military from Steuben's Manual Exercise, and poetry from the calendar pages
                  of the Farmers' Almanac. The hymns of Watts come not in this department, but in
                  that of music, being made for singing; but the ballad of the Major's only Son and
                  Barbara Allen's Cruelty complete the poetical library. The music is psalmody, and
                  came by nature. A noble bass the colonel sings; he has always led the bass in
                  Parson Boreman's choir. Once there was trouble about the bass-viol, which Major
                  Murray objected to; he would not hear the "big fiddle" in the house of the Lord.
                  It was played one or two Sundays before he found it out; for the major had no ear
                  for music—couldn't tell the fling of a
                  saw from a jewsharp;—but he saw the colonel bringing in the big fiddle, one day,
                  and made up his mind what to do about it. When the choir commenced the first hymn,
                  he took his hat and marched out of the meeting-house. It was plain he had
                  determined to bear no part in the profanation, and meant everybody should know it.
                  The colonel understood it, and, choosing to remove the stumbling-block from the
                  major's path, brought out the viol ostentatiously when the morning service was
                  closed, and sent it home. The major was comfortable that afternoon, and for a
                  dozen Sundays following, though the viol, which the colonel had secretly restored,
                  was regularly played. Some mischief-maker at last told the major. He was full of
                  indignation, and said that if he heard it again he should quit the meeting-house.
                  The colonel heard of the threat, and removed the viol. Next Sunday the major came
                  with ears and conscience wide awake to detect the sinful sound. The hymn was given
                  out, and the colonel sounded the key-note in his deepest tone, imitating the
                  bass-viol as nearly as possible. The major, proud of the quickness of his ear and
                  the promptitude of his principles, immediately marched out of the meeting-house.
                  He stood reverently on the steps in prayer-time, and, after the second singing,
                  returned to hear the sermon. After service the colonel walked up to the major, and
                  asked why he left the house in singing time.
               "Because," he replied, "you made it a fiddling-time. Didn't I hear your big
                  fiddle? You can't cheat me!—I can tell it as fur off as I can hear my black bull;
                  and it sounds just like him!"
               The colonel assured him that there had been no bass-viol, nor any black bull, in
                  the meeting-house that day, adding that his own voice was a little hoarse, which
                  probably caused the mistake. The major was convinced that he could not trust his
                  own ears in that matter, and said no more upon the subject, though the viol was
                  restored to its place in the choir.
               A hale, hearty, self-opinionated, and yet very manageable, stern-spoken, and yet
                  very tender-hearted, frugal, yet generous old man, is the colonel. His wife, a
                  cheery, blue-eyed, round-featured, double-chinned, close-capped matron a dozen
                  years younger than the colonel, and looking younger still. Always busy, but never
                  tired; always scolding, but never cross; always cooking up all sorts of good
                  things for everybody, but always choosing the plainest food for herself; never
                  sick, but with a whole garret-full of herbs and chest-full of medicines for
                  others' sickness; never going abroad, but always ready to "fix up" and start off
                  the family on visiting excursions. In short, assuming and governing as mistress of
                  all, and yet making herself servant of all.
               Samuel, the oldest boy, married Job Brown's daughter Betsey, sister of Josiah. A
                  good wife was she; but Samuel died within the year, soon after little Samuel, the
                  colonel's "adjutant," was born. Jacob married Samuel's widow, and now resides in a
                  part of his father's house till he can finish his own. The colonel made the last
                  match,—the only one he ever made, except his own,—and both were good ones. The
                  widow, his daughter-in-law, was the favorite of Aunt Jane, and the adjutant was
                  indispensable to his grandfather. Perhaps the colonel and his wife had talked it
                  over; at any rate, it was the colonel who, as he said, broke the ice. "Jacob,"
                  said he, one day, when they were alone, "Jacob, it's time for you to be doing
                  something for yourself. Go over to Job Brown's, and get Betsey. Your mother wants
                  her nearer; I want Sammy and you want a
                  good wife, and the Morgan farm, that your poor brother bought, but did not live to
                  enjoy. I have pretty much paid for it, and you and she may have it. The old house
                  on it is good for nothing, but we'll build a new one, and you and Betsey may have
                  our end parlor, and we'll all eat together till it's done."
               Jacob blushed, but wisely said nothing. Upon such a matter, a man should think
                  twice before he speaks, even to his father. He afterwards said that he never was
                  "so struck up in a heap" in his life. But he thought of it. The next day his
                  father asked if he had done the thing mentioned yesterday—just as if it was a
                  thing to be done in a hurry. Jacob replied, "Not quite yet, father."
               "Well, you mean to, I suppose?"
               "Why, it don't look bad, father, if nobody objects."
               "Why, nobody objects, of course, till they are asked; so you'd better be about it
                  before it's too late. Such a girl as she needn't wait long for such a lubber as
                  can't speak."
               "Thank you, father, for the compliment; but, I'm thinking that as you have begun
                  the business so well, it will be best for you to carry it through. Perhaps you go
                  over and introduce the matter."
               "Why, han't I introduced the matter? Who but me put it into your head? I've done
                  my part. However, if you han't the pluck, get your mother to go for you; or rather
                  go and invite Betsey to bring Sammy and pay a visit, and we'll talk it over
                  here."
               This last device suited Jacob well; it turned out well, and all were happy ever
                  after.
               Isaac was next to Jacob. Their names had got reversed from Scripture order. He was
                  about Alek's age.
               George, one of the twins, was younger, A good fellow, he, and a droll one—the wag
                  of the family. They said he became so by sitting on the dye-pot when little. The
                  dye-pot, in which woollen yarn is colored, generally stands covered with a board,
                  in one corner of the capacious fireplace, and whoever sits on the dye-pot grows
                  witty. George was full of fun, odd jokes, quick repartees, and raillery,
                  ridiculous representations of others' acts, or of his own; full of laughter and
                  merriment, yet serious at times,—more serious than anybody else.
               Music was his passion. He could draw music from a cornstalk fiddle, or a
                  pumpkin-vine trombone. At twelve years he played the fife for the Wolfsden Light
                  Infantry; and lively were the tunes he played. At thirteen, with an old fiddle, he
                  made many a husking and apple-paring merry. Nobody so popular, and so much sought
                  after, as George. The colonel was gratified, but dissatisfied. He was pleased with
                  his son's genius, but predicted his ruin. "But," said he, "it's no use to
                  interfere. We'll give him good counsel, and trust Providence." The result proved
                  the resolution good. George threw away his fiddle, and everything of the sort,
                  before he was eighteen. "Too boyish," he said.
               James, his brother, was a more retiring, pensive boy. We will not say much about
                  James. Perhaps the reader may get some notion of him as we proceed.
               Of the girls, Ann is the oldest. Everybody allows that she is a good and
                  good-looking girl. Josiah Brown evidently admires her. People joke her about it.
                  She says Josiah Brown is nothing to her; "he comes over to see his sister, and
                  it's well enough to talk with him; he is Betsey's brother, and a civil,
                  respectable person enough. She wishes to be civil to everybody." Very discreet and very considerate of
                  you, Miss Ann! Have courage, Josiah! To be civil and respectable and Betsey's
                  brother, is a good beginning.
               Hannah comes next—younger than Ann. A good girl, and good singer. Hers are the
                  truest tones in the choir; and, being willing to sing anywhere, at the foot as at
                  the head, she escapes the jealousy and trouble about precedence which vex the
                  others.
               Amy is the youngest. She it is of whom we promised the story, and for whose sake
                  chiefly we have introduced the others. Amy is only nine years old, and small at
                  that. Three years ago she was only six, and smaller still. A little, fairy-like
                  pet, dark eyes, bright hair and complexion, generally sprightly, yet often
                  thoughtful, and almost sad. She is indulged in everything, yet not spoiled by
                  indulgence. She seems to have an intuitive perception of right, and never asks
                  anything wrong; or, if she takes a whim for anything judged inexpedient, she never
                  insists. Some tempers are so amiable that love seems their proper discipline, the
                  atmosphere where they thrive best. Perhaps that discipline and atmosphere would
                  suit more than have a chance to benefit by it. Amy grew up in it; everybody loved
                  her, and she loved everybody.
               Three years ago last haying-time, Amy was six years old. Haying was pretty much
                  done, at home; but, since Samuel's death, the colonel had also to manage the
                  "Morgan farm." All the force of the farm, with an extra hand or two, was now
                  employed in getting the hay down there. They went early, and generally returned at
                  sunset, taking home a load with them. Blueberries were ripe, and very plenty. The
                  road down to the Morgan farm was retired—not a public road only a cross road, but
                  very pleasant. Tall pines grew occasionally along the way. In some places a grove
                  of young trees offered a cool resting-place—a smooth, soft surface, and a
                  grateful, fragrant shade. Here and there, also, a spreading beech gave a dense
                  shadow, where, when the frost comes and opens the burrs, the clean, sweet
                  beechnuts strew the ground, and attract eager children. Now that the sweeter
                  blueberries bordered the road on both sides, Amy came every day and filled her
                  little basket. Nobody picked such sweet berries as Amy.
               It was but half a mile to the Morgan place. Amy often went there in company with
                  her sisters, but not alone. She only went a little way, perhaps a third of the
                  distance, to fill her basket; but, as they were haying down there, she ventured a
                  little further—so far that she could see them away down in the field, there,
                  mowing and tossing about the hay, and old Turk and Brown yoked and lying down by
                  the cart, ready to draw it home at night. Next day she ventured further. Isaac was
                  loading the cart, and the colonel was on it, stowing the load George and James
                  were raking. They saw Amy in the distance, and called her. She was glad to go and
                  see them rake the hay, and show them her berries.
               When the load was finished, Isaac lifted her up to ride home with her father. Old
                  Turk and Brown did not mind the additional load, but jogged lazily home, no way
                  disposed to give unnecessary jolts. Delightful ride was that upon the hay to Amy!
                  No splendid coach in Broadway ever bore a happier freight.
               The next day she went again. She filled her basket sooner than before, and was in
                  the field before the time of loading up for home. After talking and playing a few
                  moments with George and James, who were too busy to be detained long, she returned to heap her basket a little higher,
                  and pick some wild-flowers to put into her little vase.
               She did not return to the field; but that caused no alarm. They supposed she had
                  returned home. The road was plain, and almost the whole way in sight, either of
                  the field where they were at work, or of her home. In one place it diverged a
                  little way into the woods, along the border of which it ran, but soon returned.
                  There was no getting out of it, for no other roads led from it; and, besides,
                  being so recently travelled with heavy loads of hay, it was as plain as the
                  turnpike.
               But Amy did not return home. As they were not expecting her till the men should
                  return with the load, they could not be alarmed, and the hours passed on.
               But where was Amy?
               When she returned to the road, she heaped up her little basket as long as the
                  berries would lie, and then she sat down her basket by a little tree, and looked
                  for flowers for her bouquet. The summer sun had dried most of the pretty flowers,
                  but here and there might be found a tall yellow lily, or a bunch of columbines, or
                  an oxeye daisy,—gaudy, but scentless flowers. But she gathered the fairest she
                  could find, and in her hands they looked fair enough; and still she wandered on,
                  looking for more and prettier. She was pursuing the direction opposite from home,
                  as she knew well enough, but meant to return to her basket in a few minutes; and
                  so she went on a little further and a little further still.
               In the edge of the woods, a very little way, she saw a bunch of beautiful flowers,
                  crimson and gold. Country people call the plant celandine, and children call the
                  flowers lady's eardrops. Amy ran in and gathered them. There were a good many.
                  They grew around and among some stones which were partly covered with white moss.
                  She filled both hands, and then ran to find where she had placed her basket. She
                  returned to the road, and ran along in it, not doubting that she was returning.
                  Her little brain was confused,—"turned round," as they say,—she was going the
                  wrong way—still away from home. Her little cape-bonnet covered her face, as she
                  ran along with her eyes upon the ground, but once in a while looking up to see the
                  tree where she had deposited her basket. She ran a good way, then she walked a
                  good way; still she could not see the tree—not that tree; there were
                  a good many trees, and they grew more and more plenty. They grew on both sides of
                  the road; she had not marked that before; she wondered that she had come so far
                  without knowing it: and then she ran again; she ran a good way; the trees grew
                  thicker; the road became more obscure. In one or two places other paths diverged
                  to the right or left. She was tired with running, and so she walked again; but she
                  walked fast. The road became less distinct. Little bushes grew up in the middle of
                  it; then it turned out of its direction, to pass round some great trees on the
                  other side of the great trees she could see hardly any road at all, and then she
                  began to fear that she was lost—lost in the woods, like the little babes. The
                  terror of the thought thrilled her little frame, and nerved her with new strength.
                  She ran along in the direction which looked most like the road. She ran hard, and
                  ran a good way; and, as the terror pursued her, she ran still the harder, as if to
                  escape from it. She panted for breath; she stumbled, and fell. It did not hurt her
                  much; if it had hurt her more, she would not have minded it now. She regained her feet, and would have run again,
                  but she could see no road. There was none. Then she knew she was lost. She thought
                  she would return and find the road where it went round the great clump of trees.
                  She looked for the great clump of trees, and thought she saw them; but they
                  appeared to be in the wrong direction. There was a clump of trees in the other
                  direction, but they looked differently. In other directions were other great
                  clumps of trees, and she knew not which to go to. She thought she would go to them
                  all, till she found the road; but when she got to the first, there was no road,
                  but other clumps of trees on every side; and then she knew that she was lost—lost
                  like the babes in the wood.
               She thought she would pray to God; and then she doubted whether God could hear her
                  in the dark woods where the tall trees shut out the heavens where he lives. She
                  knew he could hear her in her little bedroom at home; for there her mother had
                  taught her to pray, and there her mother and her sisters prayed and God knew the
                  place; but did he know that she was lost in those lone woods? Had he seen her come
                  there? Could he hear her there? May be he could. And so she prayed that God would
                  come and show her the way back, and carry her back, for she was very tired,—only
                  carry her back to her little basket, and then her father would take her home on
                  the hay; and she prayed that he would not let the bears and wolves get her.
               And then she sat down, and waited for God to come. She waited a good while, but
                  she knew heaven was a good way off, and she resolved to be patient.
               The road to the Morgan place turned off from the main road a little north of
                  Colonel Bowler's. It was but a cross or private road, and not a public way. The
                  entrance was generally closed by a gate. It was a good smooth road down as far as
                  the Morgan place; beyond that it was little used in summer, and in the winter only
                  to draw wood homeward, and timber to the river. The river, in that direction, is
                  two miles off. In a more northerly direction it is nearer, but southwardly it
                  diverges further. The road is good in winter, but, not being used in summer, is
                  scarcely distinguishable, except for perhaps half a mile beyond the Morgan
                  place.
               Amy was now more than two miles off; for she had diverged towards the south, and
                  was still far from the river. In one short hour she had gone all that weary way,
                  and now she sat among the leaves at the foot of a tall old maple, waiting for God
                  to come and help her. A little ribbon which bound her hair was found under the
                  tree the next day, by which it was known where she rested; and she afterwards told
                  that when she prayed to God she heard it thunder a good way off, and thought may
                  be it was God speaking to her. The thunder was heard in the haying-field about an
                  hour after little Amy had left.
               While Amy sat under the tall old maple far away in the boundless forest, waiting
                  for God to come, her father and brothers were diligently completing their day's
                  work in the haying-field, and her mother and sisters were busy at home, little
                  suspecting the peril of their beloved one.
               The slight thread of mystery, which runs through so many of the incidents of this
                  story, as traced in my memory, here again makes its appearance. It shall not be
                  suppressed; for trifles often serve as indications of the sublimest truths.
               That afternoon, a little before the thunder was heard, as Aunt Deborah Arbor was
                  about her household affairs, she became
                  suddenly impressed with the idea of trouble and misfortune at Colonel
                  Bowler's. She tried to turn it off, and kept about her work; but the impression
                  grew too strong for her quiet. The afternoon was warm, and the distant thunder
                  might forbode a shower; but she resolved to obey the voice within, and, telling
                  Helen to send Alek after her, if she should be detained, she put on her
                  sun-bonnet, took an umbrella, and departed. It was nearly half a mile, but she
                  walked fast, and was soon there. Her first words were an inquiry after Amy. They
                  told her that she was with her father and brothers in the haying-field. After
                  resting a few moments, she said that she would go down to the place. It seemed a
                  strange proposition, that warm afternoon, after so long a walk; but Ann and Hannah
                  immediately offered to accompany her. Aunt Deborah accepted Ann's company, but
                  told Hannah to remain at home, and help her mother. On the way she made several
                  inquiries of Ann about Amy,—when she went, &c.,—but without a word of
                  explanation. When they arrived in sight of the hay-field, the men and boys were
                  loading and raking; but Amy was not in sight. "Run and find Amy!" exclaimed Aunt
                  Deborah, pale with excitement. Ann, alarmed at her manner, flew across the field,
                  calling, as she approached her brothers, for Amy.
               "Why, she went home two hours ago," exclaimed they all.
               The alarm was instantly communicated. Hasty and frantic inquiries were made. The
                  boys threw down their rakes, the colonel leaped from the load, Isaac detached the
                  pin which fastened the oxen to the cart, and, in less than a minute, all were in
                  the road, running, calling, shouting, exploring the woods in various directions,
                  and making every effort which the agony of terror or the suggestions of hope could
                  inspire.
               They soon found the little basket, filled with berries, which she had left under
                  the tree. Unfortunately this happened to be by a little path, which went into the
                  woods toward the north, at a right angle with the road which she had pursued; and
                  they inferred, that she had taken that path, especially as it led to a grove of
                  sugar-maples, where was a little hut used in the sugar season, and where the
                  sap-troughs and other conveniences were kept. She had been led there once to see
                  these wonders, and was much delighted with them;—all therefore turned to explore
                  the woods in that direction, and tired the echoes with their frantic calls, while
                  Amy was waiting under the old maple, two miles away, for God to come and take
                  her.
               Meanwhile Aunt Deborah hurried back to the house alone; for Ann could not be kept
                  back from joining in the search. Alek had come after his mother in the wagon, and
                  all instantly informed of the terrible truth. Aunt Deborah hastened home with the
                  horse and wagon to summon the family, and Alek flew to join in the search.
               In an hour, all the men within two miles were in the woods, and women in wagons
                  hurrying for more help. The search was kept up all that night. In the morning,
                  before sunrise, hundreds of men and boys, from every direction, were collected at
                  Colonel Bowler's, ready to follow any orders from him. By the advice of Deacon
                  Arbor, horns were sounded as at his signal for the men in the woods to return, and
                  a council of proceedings was held. It was pretty clear that the missing one was
                  not in the direction where they had been searching, for the whole woods on that
                  side had now been explored for miles.
               A systematic plan of thorough search was now speedily adopted. The whole company formed in a line,
                  extending more than two miles, the individuals being within hailing distance. All
                  were directed to march in silence, except that every minute the word March was passed along the line. The silence was required to listen for any
                  sound; and the frequent shout of march, not only to attract the
                  attention of the lost one, if in hearing, but also to give such individuals as
                  could not see the others proper indications of course and distance.
               In this way they extended themselves, and took up their march toward the river,
                  from a little beyond where Amy left her basket; and if she had but remained where
                  we left her, under the old maple-tree, they would soon have found her. Every rod
                  of ground was explored, as they passed; and long before noon the ribbon which
                  bound her hair was found under the old maple, and immediately sent to the house,
                  to communicate the encouraging presage of success, and also to show that search in
                  other directions was not needed; for the search was still being pursued, by women
                  and others, in the direction of the maple-grove, and elsewhere.
               Refreshments of bread, cheese, beer, and water, were brought, and passed along the
                  line, without intermitting the search; but no farther indications of their object
                  were discovered that day. Before night they had explored the whole ground swept by
                  their line of march to the river, being nine or ten square miles, besides their
                  previous search. When they arrived at the river, another council was held. The
                  company divided, and two fines were formed, each extending from the river as far
                  towards their first point of starting as their number would allow, and which was
                  far enough to sweep all the ground that the fugitive could in any likelihood have
                  passed.
               In the same order as before, one wing moved down the river, and the other moved
                  up. The wing moving down the river was longest, extending nearly two miles back;
                  on the other side, the course of the river made a less extensive line sufficient
                  to cover the ground. The upper wing had also but about two miles ahead, before
                  coming to a county road, which, of course, must terminate their search, in that
                  direction. The route of the lower line was, in one sense, interminable, for the
                  forest stretched south and west to an indefinite distance; but there were streams
                  running into the main river, some of which, within a few miles, were broad and
                  deep enough to prevent the child's crossing.
               The upper wing swept the whole ground in their line of march before dark; they
                  reached the main road, which, if the fugitive had found, she would have kept, and
                  it soon led to houses in either direction. They, therefore, turned to aid the
                  down-river wing, on the extremity of which they formed themselves, so as to extend
                  the line still further from the river. This arrangement must have been infallibly
                  successful, but for a most extraordinary cause of failure; for they were now
                  sweeping all the ground remaining unexplored which she could possibly pass.
               While thus moving onward in regular order, and exploring every foot of the way,
                  and in perfect silence, except that the word march was regularly
                  passed along the line, the approach of night delayed their progress. In those dark
                  old woods, shut in by thick-branches overhead, and, for the most part, obstructed
                  by thick-tangled growth beneath, the light faded fast with the declining sun; but
                  they had advanced some three or four
                  miles from their last point of starting, and had swept nearly all the ground where
                  the child could have strayed. For, but a mile or two further on, their progress
                  would be stopped by a broad, deep, sluggish stream, known as, "The Dead Brook,"
                  which extended back from the main river many miles. By this time also, the
                  conviction prevailed that their search would be fruitless, and that they should
                  see the child no more. She had probably made her way to the river and fallen from
                  its high banks, to be swept away by its current; or, still more dreadful to be
                  imagined, had been carried off by some wild beast. Bears and wolves, as well as
                  more harmless animals, frequented these woods; and though the wolves, retreating
                  to the mountains, were seldom seen here except in winter, yet the bears were said
                  to be numerous. They were not considered fierce and dangerous at this season of
                  the year, when berries and other sweet vegetables were plenty, but yet would,
                  perhaps, destroy a child.
               However, though with little hope, the party still proceeded to explore the
                  remaining ground; but, when they came to the Dead Brook without finding any
                  further trace of the object of their search, all the company seemed to yield to
                  the conviction that their duty was done. Most of them, indeed, were exhausted from
                  fatigue and want of accustomed food and rest; for they had not ceased a moment in
                  their effort since called from their beds long before morning, and had taken no
                  refreshment, except such as could be passed from hand to hand along the line. It
                  was now late and very dark, and there were evident signs of rain. The whole
                  company gradually gathered toward the left extremity of the line, at the
                  confluence of the Dead Brook with the main river. They had all, in passing down
                  the Dead Brook, explored it thoroughly and all agreed that there was no point
                  where the child could possibly have crossed it. It was broad, deep, and
                  impassable, for many miles back. Much was said about a place called Beaver Dam,
                  about two miles up the stream; but several men of reliable judgment had examined
                  this, the only supposed place of crossing, and had found it, beyond all question,
                  impossible to be passed by a child. Hope had deserted every heart, and the
                  colonel, with pale and haggard features, worn with fatigue and anxiety, and with a
                  trembling voice, thanked them for their kindness, and dismissed them to their
                  homes.
               It was now near midnight, very dark, and beginning to rain. They had long before
                  provided themselves with torches to pursue their search; and, as the large company
                  departed and separated themselves into different groups, extending for miles in
                  different directions, the woods seemed as if illuminated by vast army. But all did
                  not depart. The colonel and his sons, Deacon Arbor and Alek, Job Brown and Josiah,
                  with about twenty others, remained on the ground, some with a vague impression
                  that something might yet be done; besides, some were too much exhausted to return
                  without refreshment and rest. A large fire was kindled, and food, which had been
                  forwarded from the contributions of many houses during the day, was brought;
                  boughs and leaves were collected, old garments spread down, and the colonel and
                  deacon, with a few others, were persuaded to lie down and rest.
               But Alek, though he had been one of the most active during the day, and had been
                  searching the woods the whole light before, showed no signs of fatigue. After
                  brief refreshment, and seeing his father and the colonel as comfortably disposed of as circumstances would
                  permit, he declared his determination of examining the beaver-dam himself. This,
                  as has been mentioned, was two miles up the Dead Brook. Some ten or twelve
                  volunteered to accompany him, and, preparing their torches, they departed.
               It now began to rain fast, but their pitch-wood torches flamed brightly, and they
                  moved swiftly. In half an hour they were at the beaver-dam. The first glance gave
                  no encouragement. The old dam consisted of a mass of decayed wood sunk in the
                  stream, and on the further side reaching to the surface of the water, forming an
                  eddy above, covered with floating sticks and leaves; the dam, which was evidently
                  the work of beavers some years since, was decayed and washed away on the hither
                  side, leaving a space of clear, deep water, of six or eight feet breadth, between
                  the dam and the shore, so that the stream was clearly impassable.
               But the searching eyes of Alek noticed that from the hither end of the dam a loose
                  and rotted log of wood swung clown stream, and vibrated in the slow current, its
                  upper end still attached, to the end of the dam. It appeared, from the lightness
                  with which it floated, that it could not have been in the water long. Measuring it
                  with his eye, he judged that it would about span the space between the shore and
                  the dam. The thought flashed in his mind that such had been its position till very
                  lately, and that some slight cause had displaced it, and caused it to float to its
                  present position. That slight cause might be the foot of little Amy. If so, she
                  might have crossed, or, more likely, might be sleeping in the dark waters beneath
                  them.
               This last supposition seemed most likely, when Alek's dog Lion, who had been the
                  active companion of his master in all the search, now, after rapidly snuffing the
                  ground near where the loose end of the log might have been attached, and putting
                  his fore-paws into the stream, as if to search it, uttered a long and melancholy
                  howl. Alek was then convinced that Amy had been there. She was probably there now,
                  or had been carried a little distance down the slow stream. But she might possibly
                  have gained the other side, and be still living. He determined to seek the living
                  child before searching the water for the dead.
               The water was deep, but Alek could swim. His clothes were already wet with rain,
                  and therefore he did not take them off. In a minute he was on the other side, and
                  Lion, who could swim as well as his master, was there too. After a moment's
                  snuffing, Lion sprang about, wild with excitement. He had evidently made a
                  discovery. He would run a few steps into the bushes, dart back, take a circuit,
                  and make off again, and then return and look wistfully at his master, as if
                  anxious that he should accompany him. Alek shouted for the others to come over; a
                  stick was found strong enough to bridge the chasm, and in a few moments the whole
                  party were exploring the other shore with their torches.
               Lion led his master, in a line diverging from the stream, downward toward the main
                  river. Some of the party followed; others beat the ground in various directions.
                  Lion kept on in a circuitous course, but far ahead, occasionally with a low bark,
                  as if to give his master indication of his course. Alek hurried on in the
                  direction of the sound. After some fifteen minutes, the loud, sharp bark of the
                  dog followed by a long-protracted howl, gave Alek notice that Lion had found the object of his pursuit; and that
                  it was probably the child—dead!
               With palpitating heart and wild haste, he hurried on. A thick growth of low bushes
                  opposed his progress, but he rushed resistlessly on, holding aloft his torch. In a
                  few minutes his excited apprehensions were ended. There was Lion; a slender, white
                  object lay upon the ground before him, which he was eagerly licking, all the time
                  uttering a low, whimpering cry. Alek threw down the torch, and, carefully taking
                  up the insensible child, pressed her to his breast. He thought she was dead; but
                  she was not quite cold. He put his ear to her side; he could perceive the beating
                  of her heart.
               "FOUND! FOUND!" he cried, at the top of his voice.
               "FOUND! FOUND!" was shouted by the companions of his search, scattered in various
                  directions, and some of them not far off.
               "FOUND! FOUND!" reëchoed the woods far and wide, to the loudest of human
                  voices.
               They were nearer the party which they had left an hour ago than when they crossed
                  the stream; but they must still be more than a mile off. Yet soon from the far
                  distance they heard the combined shout of many voices, "Found! found!"
               "Found! found!" was again replied by Alek's party, who were now fast
                  hurrying toward him.
               "FOUND! FOUND!" reëchoed the woods far and wide.
               In a few moments, the deep sound from the distance was again heard. It was the
                  tone of inquiry, "ALIVE?—ALIVE?"
               "ALIVE! ALIVE!" shouted Alek.
               "ALIVE! ALIVE!" shouted his approaching companion;
               "ALIVE! ALIVE!" reëchoed the woods far and wide.
               "March! march!" was again heard from the deep distance. It was a
                  signal that the distant party were coming.
               It was impossible to describe the excitement of the party left behind, when roused
                  by the shout, Found! found! To cross the Dead Brook, and hasten in
                  the direction of the sound, was the irresistible impulse. Luckily there were
                  plenty of light logs, branches and drift-wood, along the banks, from which a rude
                  raft was in a few minutes constructed, and, three or four at a time, they were
                  quickly on the other side of the stream. "MARCH! MARCH!" was again shouted, and
                  answered, at intervals, to direct their course.
               In the mean time, Alek's companions had gathered brushwood, and other
                  combustibles, and kindled a great fire. Little Amy, closely embraced by Alek, felt
                  its reviving warmth, and her little limbs shivered. Alek chafed her body; others
                  heated portions of their dripping garments, and successively wrapped them around
                  her feet; others, making their hands hot by the fire, pressed hers between them.
                  Lion, eager to assert his claims, pressed his nose to her wet garments; and soon
                  all had the satisfaction of hearing the indistinct murmur of her voice.
               "Amy, dear Amy!" said Alek, in her ear; for Alek still held her, as having the
                  first right, although her brothers stood around.
               "Father!" whispered the unconscious child. She thought it was her
                  father's voice.
               "Dear daughter!"
               Words cannot describe the agony of joy shown by the father, when he again beheld his child. With
                  streaming eyes and lifted bands, he uttered thanksgivings to God. He had never
                  before been known to utter words of devotion in presence of others, though
                  believed to pray habitually in secret. But now what to him though a thousand stood
                  around? He saw only his child; and he felt that a present God had restored her.
                  Never before or since has the inspiration of fervent piety struck me as on this
                  occasion. From this I could imagine how David looked, when he cried, "O, Absalom!
                  my son, my son!" But his was the inspiration of grief. This was the inspiration of
                  gratitude and joy.
               We have purposely omitted to speak of the agony of terror and suspense which
                  agitated the anguished mother and distracted sisters, during all this dreadful
                  interval. We shall not attempt to describe their joy in the restoration of the
                  lost one. With what deep feeling the mother thanked Alek, when the whole story was
                  told her; and how the daughters overwhelmed and embarrassed him with their
                  gratitude. Is it a wonder that Amy loves Alek, and calls him dear uncle, and that
                  he calls her his dear daughter?
               The town was soon made aware of the good news. The next Sunday, Parson Boreman
                  improved the occasion with a most eloquent sermon. Everybody thought it eloquent,
                  and a committee was appointed to solicit a copy for the press. It was given, and
                  an enormous edition of five hundred copies printed, from which every family in
                  town, and many elsewhere, were supplied. The colonel reads the sermon annually,
                  every Thanksgiving Day, with tears. I have looked it over lately to make some
                  extracts with which to close this chapter; but find nothing particularly
                  appropriate, and rather suspect that its chief merit at the time was, that it
                  touched a subject in which his congregation were interested.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE storm has passed. The bright sun looks from behind his cloudy curtains to
                  behold mother earth decked like a bride in her drapery of flowery white, to
                  welcome the new approaching year. How virgin fair and pure she looks! Her ample
                  robe spread is undulations far as the eye can reach. The woody hills are rounded
                  and softened in their outlines by the superincumbent snow, spread as a veil of
                  white over their bending tops. Yet less lovely now is the earth in her splendor
                  than she shall soon appear when night shall display her softer charms, and the
                  silver moon, and the sparkling stars, and the deep-blue sky, shall spread their
                  glorious canopy over her head.
               Let us now go back to Deacon Arbor's. Alek has returned, and has brought good
                  news; not unexpected, and not unprepared for. Two sleigh-loads of company are
                  coming;—Uncle Jotham driving Aunt Nabby in one sleigh, and a young dandy driving a
                  rustic schoolmaster in the other. Helen turned her head a little the other way, at
                  this last intelligence; and Frances asked, archly, whom the young dandy had come
                  for,—just as if she already knew the schoolmaster's intentions.
               "Not you, sister," said Alek.
               
               "O, no; the schoolmaster's after me and Helen," replied she, just as if that were
                  to be a triple affair.
               They had stopped a little while at the village, at Captain Boynton's. Captain
                  Boynton was the rich old revolutionary soldier at the village, and the young dandy
                  was his grand-nephew. The young dandy's name was Harry Boynton. His father was a
                  planter in North Carolina, and his uncle a merchant in New York, and his aunt was
                  no other than Aunt Nabby; but she was a maternal aunt, not a Boynton.
               Harry was a Harvard University student, and proficient in the sciences and
                  accomplishments often very successfully pursued there. He was not one of those few
                  unexceptionable and indefatigable young men, who, late and early, pore over
                  crabbed characters in dusty tomes, and from the commencement of a term to its
                  close keep the college honors full in view. His mathematical pursuits were more
                  practical than theoretical; and he described his curves and angles upon a
                  billiard-table, with the white and red balls, aided by the dextrous use of the
                  cue, which he substituted for the more complex instruments of his shagreen case.
                  Of all the great personages of history, he most fancied the four popular kings and
                  queens whose portraits so often draw admiring connoisseurs about the card-table.
                  In the diplomacy of shuffling he was an adept, but his practice involved rather an
                  unprofitable familiarity with the knaves. In astronomical studies, he by no means
                  neglected the theatrical "stars." The bowling-alley balls demonstrated the
                  movements of the spheres; and he explored through opera-glasses the constellations
                  which sparkled in the deep concave of the dress-circles. Botany often solaced his
                  leisure, with tobacco-leaves rolled in the form of cigars. The wine-merchant's
                  bills were regarded by him as free translations of Anacreon, though not always
                  happily rendered. His opinion was always authoritative in questions of port,
                  madeira, and champagne. But these laudable and brilliant attainments, indicating
                  the fastest improvement of his time, so far from winning the approbation, only
                  excited the jealousy, of the grave and reverend professors of dull, dry,
                  collegiate study; which was carried so far, that, at an official meeting of the
                  faculty, they voted him a polite but somewhat peremptory permission to recruit his
                  mental health, and renovate his moral habits, by a temporary rustication.
               By this kind consideration of the college faculty, and at the suggestion of his
                  uncle in New York, he improved the period of his rustication by making a visit to
                  his aunt in Saco. There he made himself generally agreeable, as indeed he did
                  everywhere; for he had natural good qualities, which dissipation had not wholly
                  eradicated. When the visit to Wolfsden was spoken of, he proposed to be one of the
                  party and his Aunt Nabby, who had received a confidential letter from his uncle,
                  commending his health and habits to her own and Uncle Lemuel's especial
                  watchfulness, approved the proposition.
               At Wolfsden village, Harry must needs pay his first respects to his grand-uncle.
                  Aunt Nabby, who considered that her duty of watchfulness could be best performed
                  by keeping him in sight, concluded to call and pay her respects, too; particularly
                  as the horses really needed breath, for they had travelled fast, notwithstanding
                  the snow. Harry had driven, though not so fast as he would have done but for
                  Hezekiah's mild remonstrance.
               
               "If I have a genius for anything, it is for driving," said Harry.
               Though Harry made no pretensions to superior talents in a general way, he had a
                  habit of claiming a peculiar "genius" for whatever business happened to be in
                  hand; so that his piecemeal pretensions, if added up, would have excelled those of
                  the Admirable Crichton himself.
               Captain Boynton was a gentleman. He was the only gentleman by profession in
                  Wolfsden. There were other gentlemanly men, but no others who made that business
                  their exclusive pursuit.
               He was an old gentleman, and a gentleman of the old school, and of the old habits
                  of the old school. He gave them all a warm welcome, and brought out his decanter
                  of old Jamaica, to give them warm toddy. Aunt Nabby declined the toddy, as did the
                  others. Perhaps Harry might not have declined, but for the others' presence; but
                  he had too much grace to violate their example while he was their guest. "My
                  genius lies in the cold-water line," said Harry.
               Captain Boynton chose to maintain the ceremonies of the old school,
                  notwithstanding the degeneracy of these cold-water days; and so he drank the toddy
                  to their health, and ordered cake and tea for their better refreshment, and
                  proceeded to fight the battle of Trenton for their edification. Captain Boynton,
                  it was evident, had done important service at Trenton, though Weems, in his "Life
                  of Washington," had neglected to record it. He then proceeded to Princeton, and,
                  after the fall of General Mercer, rallied the retreating regiment, and won the
                  battle, a circumstance also forgotten by Weems. The captain was indefatigable,
                  and, going backwards in the generally-received received order of events, he
                  proposed the storming of Ticonderoga and Crown Point; but his auditors were now
                  tired of battles, their horses were rested, and they took their leave, Harry
                  promising soon to rejoin his uncle for another campaign.
               Hezekiah permitted Harry to drive as fast as he chose, the rest of the way. He had
                  become impatient of the captain's achievements. He had no taste for war; his
                  inclinations drew strongly in another direction. But Harry drove provokingly
                  slow.
               But the distance was short, and soon they arrived at Deacon Arbor's, and met a
                  hearty welcome. Harry, though a stranger, was equally welcome for the other's
                  sake, and he soon made himself welcome for his own.
               It had been arranged to invite a few additional friends,—in short, to have "a
                  party," as much as might be allowable, without scandal, on a Saturday evening.
                  Margaret Murray was already there, in pursuance of previous understanding. She
                  rode over on one of the ox-sleds, which came from that direction, to break out the
                  roads. The Bowler boys and girls, including Amy and the adjutant, came after dark.
                  Josiah Brown was with them, and looked very well pleased. Helen, glancing at him,
                  whispered the fact to Ann; and she replied that they were all happy on her
                  account, glancing at Hezekiah. Very well turned off, Miss Ann!
               We were all very, happy, and Helen appeared as tranquil and as easy as if it were
                  the most natural thing to have a lover.—She, who had no experience in that way,
                  and whom, for her old-maidish ways,
                  everybody had marked down as a predestined old maid, though yet but
                  twenty-five!
               Hezekiah, too, was evidently happy;—staid and quiet in his happiness, yet
                  luminously happy. I mean that the light of his happiness shone through his eyes
                  and features.
               We were all glad to be there, and glad to see each other there. The great kitchen
                  fireplace glowed with the lasting heat of solid maple logs. The sitting-room and
                  parlor were illuminated with brighter fires. Their polished hearths and painted
                  floors reflected the ruddy blaze. How fresh, and nice, and new, seemed the
                  furniture, in its maturity of forty years! Years had ever fallen softly upon all
                  that house.
               Besides the company enumerated, there is one more to be mentioned; the new
                  schoolmaster,—not a very new man, though, for he is forty-five, at least; but he
                  is new to us, for this is his first winter in Wolfsden. A quiet, unobtrusive,
                  silent sort of a man he seems; but we will not overlook him, for he is still a
                  great man even here, and at the school-house greater still,—the monarch of all he
                  surveys, but a very good, just, and benignant monarch.
               There is a saying, that there is a skeleton in every house; meaning that, however
                  fair external signs may be, yet some open or secret trouble lurks everywhere. But
                  surely there is no skeleton here. No; there is none. But look!
               What spectre is that emerging from the corner bedroom? It is a skeleton! The face
                  grins with a leer of sepulchral satisfaction, beneath a double row of crisp, short
                  curls of false hair, surmounted by a crisp, crimped, double-bordered cap,
                  surmounted higher still by bunches of gaudy ribbons, overtopped in their turn by a
                  short, waving feather. Is it the skeleton of some squaw, decked for her wedding,
                  and seeking for her lost ""brave"?
               Around her yellow neck is a crisp, crimped double-ruff, disposed so as to show a
                  row of yellow gold beads just above it, and a golden chain, attacked to a yellow
                  shining ring, attached to some yellow shining trinkets, just below it.
               Below her tight waist spread far and wide the rustling folds of her silken dress.
                  She moves forward with a bobbing curtsey. It is! O, goodness! it is—!
               Let us turn around and walk into the sitting-room. There is no skeleton there.
                  There are bright, welcome faces, instead. Margaret Murray, hazel-eyed,
                  dark-haired, fair-browed, cherry-lipped creature of self-conscious beauty, let me
                  introduce the impatient reader to a nearer view of your charms. Ah, how prepared
                  are those sparkling eyes for the compliment; and how prompt that musical tongue in
                  appropriate reply! Will you address her a few words, no matter how commonplace?—in
                  a few moments you will be delighted at your newly-discovered powers of
                  conversation. Though cold and dull as the black steel of the tinder-box, if there
                  be fire in you, she will strike it out. But you must not engross her; Alek is
                  near, and envies your happy chance. Another stands at little distance, and looks
                  on admiringly. Can it be that he envies, too? O, no! it is the light-hearted,
                  thoughtless Harry Boynton. He is evidently surprised to see so much beauty, grace,
                  and vivacity, in at place so remote from city life. But he is too familiar with
                  the attractions of polished society to be very deeply impressed with the graces of
                  a country maiden, even if capable of deep impressions at all; and yet he looks
                  more earnest and thoughtful than is his wont. Is it possible that he has a heart,
                  and is just finding it out?
               
               And now let me introduce you to—. But look! the skeleton of millinery is in the
                  doorway, advancing with a bobbing curtsey. Let us retreat into the kitchen.
               Ah, genial sight! With what ample and tempting cheer that long-extended
                  damask-covered table is spread—food for fifty, and we are but a score. The big
                  turkey is there; he justly claims his honored place at the feast—such was his
                  destiny. For this he lived, for this he was worthy to die. The brown, savory
                  spare-rib is there. For this the reluctant sovereign of the sty yielded his life.
                  In yon deep, broad pasty lies a flock of imprisoned chickens, waiting, as once in
                  their parent egg they waited, to burst their brittle covering. And on yonder
                  dressers see what puddings and pies, and wonderful works of pastry, stand ready.
                  But we will not tire the reader with details of what his appetite may desire, but
                  which, perchance, his fate may deny. But look! Ah, look the other
                  way! The skeleton approaches, glittering in millinery, rustling in silks, and
                  bobbing her curtseys. Let us turn and face the spectre. Mrs. Simperkins! Your old
                  acquaintance, Mrs. Simperkins.
               How came she here? How, indeed! How came she everywhere? How came the maggot in
                  the cheese? How came sin into the world? How came it that each pleasure has its
                  poison too, and every sweet a sour? Let us turn to pleasanter
                  themes—to any other theme.
               In yon obscure corner sits the schoolmaster. He is talking with Ike. Ike is
                  interested in his communication. We cannot hear what he says, but Ike answers
                  aloud, "He shall be encouraged! The rest have gone to destruction,
                  but we'll save him if it can be done." They are speaking of Ax Barker.
               The schoolmaster has been here only a week. He was sent for from a distance, to
                  keep our school this winter, for his fame as a successful teacher had reached us.
                  Well does he seem likely to justify it. He has already engaged the interest of
                  every pupil; all respect him, and try to do their best.
               He "boards round." The school-money would last but two months if the master's
                  board were paid from it. To make it three months, a dozen families of the district
                  volunteer to board the master each a week or more. This has been the week at the
                  deacon's house and he has proved an agreeable guest. They invite and persuade him
                  to stay another week, thinking that Hezekiah, also a schoolmaster, may be the
                  better entertained,—just as if Hezekiah cared about any entertainment but
                  Helen!
               Supper is ready; but let us skip the supper, since we can not partake of it. Aunt
                  Jane Bowler says it does her as much good to see others eat as to eat herself.
                  Others may not have that "genius," as Harry says.
               Supper ended, the plays begin. The old folks and grave folks appropriate the
                  parlor, leaving the sitting-room and kitchen for the young folks and gay folks. In
                  the parlor are the deacon and his wife, the schoolmaster and Hezekiah, and also
                  Helen. In sitting-room and kitchen are distributed the others. Mrs. Simperkins
                  wavers, between parlor and sitting-room, as if uncertain of her position; till,
                  urged by the serious-looking but mischievous Margaret, she settles down in the
                  sitting-room with the young and gay.
               Harry Boynton, seeing Margaret's attention to the old charmer, took it for granted
                  that she was her especial favorite; and, as Margaret seemed coy of his perhaps too
                  marked attentions, he deemed it politic to patronize the millinery
                  establishment.
               
               He thought her, perhaps, an elderly aunt or grandmother of Margaret, and made his
                  addresses accordingly. The Simperkins was flattered. She had already found out
                  that he was son to a Carolina planter, nephew to a New York merchant and to Aunt
                  Nabby, grand-nephew to Capt. Boynton, and student at college. She supposed him to
                  be studying for the ministry, and bent her conversation accordingly. He inferred
                  that she was a particularly religious lady, and answered in the same strain; for
                  it is his genius to conform to his company, to be all things to all men, and women
                  too; besides, it was now his policy. Their conversation was edifying. If it were
                  the major whom he wished to win, instead of his daughter that conversation, could
                  he have overheard it, would have done the business.
               Not that any pious pretensions were made on Harry's part; he only gave general
                  assent to the merits of favorite ministers and doctrinal tenets praised by her,
                  and declared his charity for all sects (by which she understood evangelical
                  sects), when she deprecatingly informed him that she belonged to the "church of
                  Hingland" (supposing him a Congregationalist); but his eloquent declamations about
                  the wisdom and wonders of Providence confirmed her in her estimate of the
                  sacredness of his calling.
               When she changed the subject to college life, it was wonderful with what eloquence
                  and fervor he expatiated upon the snares set there, and thereabouts, for the
                  unwary; how he condemned the corruptions of society, and deplored the vices to
                  which the young are exposed. It was wonderful, too, that so discreet a young man
                  should be so well acquainted with all the details of what he so earnestly
                  condemned; for, in his zeal,—his thoughts, and his eyes being mostly elsewhere,
                  his tongue ran at random, and he rattled off the slang of the billiard-saloon, the
                  bowling alley, the gambling-table, &c.,—told how they gulled the flats,
                  greenhorns, pigeons, and outsiders, till his language became unintelligible to the
                  Simperkins' understanding, though not the less gratifying for that. It was all
                  Latin and Greek to her; but it was not surprising that a divinity student should
                  talk Latin and Greek, and she was proud to be thought worthy to hear it.
               Meantime, Harry's thoughts and eyes were wandering among the gay and lively
                  company. One bright particular star attracted them. It was a star of strong
                  attraction. His soul newly magnetized, turned and trembled under its mysterious
                  power. Harry was in love! He who had whirled so lightly through the mazes of
                  fashion, whom the bright eyes that so often attracted had never been able to
                  subdue, and who had come heart-free to his twentieth year, now yielded at the
                  first summons of the bright-eyed country maiden.
               Yet, though his freedom and the lightness of his heart were gone, emotions far
                  more animating thrilled his frame. They gave a new impulse to the beating of his
                  heart; they gave intensity to the glance of his eye, and new animation and
                  expression to his countenance. He lived now in a new element, a new atmosphere. It
                  might be as illusory as the atmosphere of frivolity, where he had so long lived;
                  but it was new, and it gave him new life.
               As his eyes still furtively pursued their object, he felt rather than saw that her
                  eyes were once or twice turned upon him. "It is my destiny," thought he; and
                  thoughts and visions floated in his imagination, as thickly and confusedly as the
                  storm, through which he had all day driven, filled the sky.
               To him Mrs. Simperkins was a lucky resource. He had poured oceans of information into her greedy ears,
                  and it was now his turn to get information. He inquired, firstly, about distant
                  matters—the minister of the parish, especially. (Discreet Harry!) Then, cutting
                  short the too long account about Parson Boreman, he asked about the
                  schoolmaster,—"Was he pious? Deacon Arbor,—was he a friend to missions? Mrs.
                  Arbor,—did she enjoy good health? These young gentlemen,—were they all her sons?"
                  (Cautious Harry!) "These young ladies,—were they all her daughters?" (Sly Harry!)
                  The young lady who just passed, and who urged her to remain in the room,—"Her
                  niece, he presumed." (False Harry!)
               Miss Simperkins informed him upon all the topics; indeed, she was entirely too
                  prolix, and he hurried her on successively till they came to the last, and
                     then she told him too much, too much for his comfort, for she told
                  him, in a long history, including the major and his family, their relations to the
                  church, &c., that Margaret was engaged to Mr. Alek Arbor. She said it as
                  quietly as the engineer lights the match of the mine beneath the castle of the
                  beleaguered city. Its effects were as fatal—Harry's castle was blown into
                  mid-air.
               When the insane, unreasoning power of love takes possession of the heart, other
                  kindred, absurd fantasies come in to share the dominion. Honor, that will not take
                  advantage of opportune circumstances to invade others' rights. Self-respect, that
                  would scorn to accept advantages so won. Conscience, which forbids the enjoyment
                  of dishonorable success. Sympathy, which disturbs the pleasures of self with the
                  pains of others. He who writes for the present world must class all these, and
                  kindred sentiments, as fantasies. People of primitive days counted them realities.
                  To them these shadows indicated substance. Our age has weighed them in the
                  banker's er's scales, which give standard weight, and find they "won't pay."
               But these fantasies were now ruling sentiments with Harry. Love had upset his
                  understanding, and honor and self-respect had entered the breach. He could not
                  violate, with treacherous designs, the hospitality he was receiving. He would not
                  employ his superior position and advantages to entice away the affections already
                  bestowed, or promised, to another. He would not even accept a heart which could be
                  so enticed. Some romantic notions of pure, disinterested, undivided love, confused
                  his calculations.
               On the other hand, he was now under the control of a power he could not throw off.
                  He had never resisted his inclinations, and therefore they were irresistible.
               But what should he do about it? He asked this question himself, and walked to a
                  secluded window to meditate. The moon rode among the fleecy clouds in her silvery
                  brightness. The stars sparkled like gems in the deep-blue firmament. The distant
                  forest stretched an obscure, interminable shadow. The grandeur of nature's
                  solitude soothed the tumult of his soul.
               And so he meditated. But his meditations came to nothing, except a resolve to be
                  quiet; "For," said he, "I'm cornered." Strange that he should be cornered where
                  room is so plenty! He came back from the window, but not to Miss Simperkins.
               The plays were progressing. Blind-man's-buff had already been performed in the
                  kitchen, till all were panting with the excitement. "Button, button, who's got the
                  button?" passed round in a new circle formed in the sitting-room. Harry was in it.
                  Mrs. Simperkins was a little astonished; but, upon the whole, concluded that a
                  divinity student might go so far, since he had preferred her conversation to
                  blind-man's-buff. The company would like for her to go farther; but
                  she would not go at all. There she sat like an owl damping the spirits of sportive
                  chickens, or, like the nightmare, spoiling their pulses' healthful play.
               Forfeits are a part of the play of Button. Alek and Ike were in it. When Alek and
                  Ike were together, something might be expected. Ike had to redeem a forfeit; he
                  appointed Alek to judge him. "Kiss every lady in the room," said Alek.
               "Oldest first!" shouted Ike, bounding from his chair towards Mrs. Simperkins. She
                  held up both hands, with severe dignity, to repel the profanation. She had better
                  submitted in silence. Ike burst through all barriers of fists, elbows, shoulders,
                  plumes, ribbons, caps, and curls, hugged her round the neck, and smacked, or
                  pretended to smack, her heartily. Her plume was draggled, her crimped ruffles were
                  crumpled, her false curls were displaced, and all her millinery deranged; crippled
                  in all her rigging, like some over-matched privateer, she moved off to refit, and
                  the coast was clear for the present. And all this before the divinity student!
                  Poor Mrs. Simperkins!
               One more forfeit must be mentioned. It was lost by Harry. He was adjudged by Ann.
                  He must make a speech to Margaret, take her hand, and give her a kiss. The words
                  "Spirit of Louis, ascend to heaven!" when uttered by the abbé to the King of
                  France upon the scaffold, could not have thrilled the monarch more. The prospect
                  of heaven is pleasant; but timorous mortals stand and shrink, and fear to launch
                  away. Harry had resolved to be quiet. When people resolve to be quiet, they should
                  make an exceptional proviso for volcanoes canoes, earthquakes, tornadoes,
                  avalanches, and such outside influences. Harry did not feel quiet just now; and
                  yet this thought was not new to him. To take Margaret's hand, make a speech, and
                  give her a kiss, was among the sublimest of the fancies that floated amid the
                  commotions of his brain, half an hour since.
               But there was no retreat, nor time to think about it; so he marched across the
                  circle, and took her unresisting hand. It was white and cold; the blood had
                  retreated to her fluttering heart. Her other hand covered her face. That, too,
                  looked pale and cold; and so did her face, so far as it could be seen. "Forgive
                  me," he whispered. This was an evasion of his sentence;—an oration, and aloud, was
                  meant. He kissed her hand;—another evasion; her cheek was meant; but it was
                  permitted to pass.
               Margaret removed her hand from her face; there was redness enough then. She forced
                  a cough, that she might use a kerchief. It was a slight cough, as if something
                  could not be swallowed; it compelled her to turn her head and hide her face, while
                  the kerchief was applied to her eyes; but she was soon composed. The cough did not
                  return.
               Why should so many words be written about so slight an affair? But who can tell
                  what affairs are slight? Often the most seemingly trivial become the
                  turning-points of our fate, perhaps even of the fate of nations. This slight
                  matter, for instance, though it made no impression upon the circle, left an
                  abiding one, an ineffaceable one, upon three persons in it:—Harry, Margaret, Alek.
                  Harry saw or felt that his deep passion was not unperceived, perhaps not
                  unappreciated, by its object. Margaret had found a new era in her existence,
                  marked by emotions which she had deemed but the idle dreams of romance; and Alek saw the foundations of
                  the house which his long-cherished fancies had built, and where he had stored his
                  choicest hopes, sink in the faithless sand. His eyes, sharpened by interest, had
                  not failed to see and interpret the omens so fatal to his hopes.
               His heart throbbed with repressed agony. He rose and walked to the secluded
                  window, and looked forth. The silvery moon still held her way among the fleecy
                  clouds. The far expanse of glittering landscape blended with the sky. The distant
                  forest stretched its obscure, interminable shadow. The grandeur of nature's
                  solitude soothed the tumult of his soul; he swallowed down the grief which rose to
                  choke him; he folded his arms with mingled resignation and resolution, and then
                  unfolded and suffered them to fall by his side, while he meditated. He came to the
                  conclusion that it was best to be quiet, and so he resolved to be; "For," said he,
                  "I've run against a stump." Strange that he should run against stumps, when they
                  were so deeply covered with snow! In his resolution to be quiet, he made no
                  exceptional proviso for earthquakes, tornadoes, and avalanches. No need. Either,
                  or all, would now have been a relief. Suddenly two little hands clasped one of his
                  great ones. They were Amy's. With childish instinct and childish sympathy she saw
                  that he was troubled, and wished to comfort him. He took her in his arms; she was
                  slender and light,—a small burden in his arms, not enough to counterbalance the
                  burthen upon his heart; yet she seemed to relieve it. She put her little arms
                  around his neck, and pressed her lips to his cheek, then to each of his eyes, then
                  to his cheek again. His view overlooked the woods where she was lost, and where he
                  had rescued her; and she thought he was thinking of that, and of her. The subject
                  was so important, and so constant in her mind, she thought it equally so in his.
                  She failed to read aright his troubled mind; but her remedy was not the less
                  salutary. He pressed her to his breast, returned her sweet kisses, and felt
                  relieved.
               Alek's discomposure had escaped every eye but Amy's. He returned to the
                  sitting-room with his usual aspect. Margaret was just retiring to the kitchen.
                  Each appeared perfectly composed, and smiled with accustomed greeting; each sought
                  only to evade the other's scrutiny.
               Margaret went to the secluded window. The silvery moon, the fleecy clouds, the
                  sparkling star, the snow-clad mountains and far-reaching forest, still performed
                  their silent part in nature's grand mystery; and she repressed the throbbings of
                  her heart. She recalled her maiden pride, and, resolving to be quiet, returned to
                  join the merry company. Strange that, of all that merry company, the only unquiet
                  ones were they who were so strongly resolved to be quiet.
               The various round of trivial plays successively diverted the company, and then the
                  "Match Stories" began. Some, who are unacquainted with the amusements of Wolfsden,
                  and the region thereabout, may ask what "Match Stories" are.
               Match Stories are invented and told by the company in pairs, in this manner: One
                  commences a story, and proceeds to the midst of the narrative or plot, and then
                  appoints another to finish it. These stories are assumed to be extempore, and
                  often are so; though it is allowable to concert and make previous preparation,
                  which is generally done. On this occasion, several stories were told in this
                  manner, which we will put in the next chapter, as specimens of the inventive
                  faculties of the untrained youth of Maine.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               LIFE has two grand divisions: the time when we seize and enjoy our own enjoyments,
                  and the time when we provide and enjoy the enjoyments of others. The first is that
                  of youth the second is that of maturity. The dividing line is not sharp; the
                  divisions blend into each other, yet these are their distinguishing features.
                  Happy are they who partake the benefits of the first; happier they who fulfil the
                  duties of the last.
               Happy, therefore, are Deacon Arbor and his wife, and all whose destinies they
                  influence!
               The whole company, of old and young, are now assembled to hear the Match Stories.
                  The younger take their first turn. Perhaps they have been assisted in preparation
                  by the older; but most of the invention, and all the credit, is their own.
               Grave people, who think it undignified to laugh at childish sports, may skip the
                  whole of this chapter.
               
                  MATCH STORIES.
                  STORY FIRST (begun by Amy the pensive, and ended by George the wag).
                  (Amy.) "There was once a very pretty and pleasant couple lived in
                     a pretty little house, in a pleasant field, a little way from the road. The man
                     and wife were both young; and very neat; and they had six children, all very
                     pretty. There were five girls and one boy; but the boy was as good and pretty
                     as his sisters. They were all about nine years old, except one, and that was a
                     baby,—a very pretty baby, with curly hair, and blue eyes, and a pink frock, and
                     red shoes, and a little wagon to draw him out in. And there was a nice garden
                     on one side of the house, with walks all through it, and all kinds of flowers
                     by the walks, and cherry-trees, and plum-trees, and currant-bushes, and
                     gooseberries that were ripe every mouth in the year—only in the winter. And
                     there was a row of maple-trees each side of the lane going down to the road;
                     and the children played, and drew the little baby in the wagon, under the shade
                     of the maple-trees; and their father tapped the trees, and they got plenty of
                     sweet sap when they were thirsty. And they had a gentle cow, that would not
                     kick, but gave plenty of new milk; and a pig to eat up the skim-milk; and some
                     chickens, and ducks, and young turkeys; but no geese. And their mother made
                     pudding and milk, and sometimes porridge, for supper; and she made plenty of
                     pies and pancakes, and they had plenty of sweet apples baked to eat in their
                     milk. And they went to school every day but Saturday afternoons, and Sunday
                     they rode in a nice carriage to meeting. And the schoolmistress was not cross,
                     but very good; and they always carried her flowers, and plums, and some nice
                     cake, and that's all I know about it. O yes! the girls were all very
                     industrious and studious, and so their mother bought them beautiful dolls that
                     would roll their eyes. And George may tell the rest of the story, but must not
                     spoil it."
                  (George.) "Well, this nice pretty young couple, after a while, grew old and homely; and the
                     five little girls, all of sister Amy's age, grew up, too, and went into a
                     nunnery, and became nuns; and the little baby wore out his pink frock, and lost
                     his red shoes, and grew up bare-footed to be a great boy; and his name was
                     Robinson Crusoe; and he ran away and went to sea, and was left on a desert
                     island, and kept goats, and caught a savage and named him Friday; and I have
                     his picture and whole history in a nice book, which you may all come over to
                     our house and read. And, as for the old folks, the longer they lived the older
                     they grew; and their house grew old too, and they became poor, for many thieves
                     infested that pleasant country, and stole all their property, till there was
                     nothing left but the pig, that eat all the skim-milk. And their cow was stolen;
                     and they had to kill all their chickens and ducks and pigeons, and sit up
                     nights to eat them, to prevent their being stolen. And when these were all
                     gone, they wished they had some geese; but sister Amy would not let them have
                     geese, because she is afraid of the gander.
                  "And so they began to be hungry, and one day the old man said to his wife,
                     'We'll kill the pig and have him to eat; for he has nothing to
                     eat, and has not eaten anything for six weeks.' And so they killed the pig, and
                     pulled off his wool, and took out his tallow, and hung him up in the wood-house
                     to dry. And after they had gone to bed, the old woman said to the old man,
                     'We'll get up and put the pig under the bed, lest the thieves steal him;' and
                     they did so. And after they had gone to bed again, they talked about what they
                     would do with the pig to-morrow; and they concluded to roast his spare-ribs for
                     Thanksgiving, and salt his shoulders for pork, and bake his head for Fast-day,
                     and smoke his hams for bacon, ad save his lard to fry doughnuts, and send his
                     tail to the minister for a present. And there were two thieves came along, and
                     listened under the window, and found they had a pig, and resolved to steal him.
                     And they waited till the old folks were gone to sleep; and they tried the door,
                     but it was fastened; and one said he would crawl down chimney. And he got on
                     the house and crawled down most to the fireplace, and he could get no further,
                     for the chimney was so narrow. And the old man and woman waked up and heard
                     him, and got up, and saw his legs hanging down in the fireplace, and each
                     caught hold of a leg and held him fast. And then the old man tied the great
                     brass kettle, which was fall of potatoes, to one leg, and the old woman tied
                     the great iron pot, which was full of turnips, to the other leg, and left him
                     dangling till morning.
                  "Then the old man went to the door, and before he opened it, the thief outside
                     heard him, and thought it to be his fellow-thief, and asked him if he was
                     bringing the pig; and the old man said, 'No;' and that he must come in at the
                     window and help him, for it was so heavy. So the thief went round back of the
                     house to get in at the window; and the old man told him to put up his feet, and
                     he would pull him in; and he put in his feet, and the old man seized one foot
                     and the old woman the other, and shut down the sash and hold him fast. And the
                     old man tied the wash-tub, which was full of suds, to one foot, and the old
                     woman tied the churn, which was full of butter-milk, to the other, and left him
                     till morning. And in the morning they got the sheriff to come and take them all
                     to jail; and they kept their pig, and had plenty of spare-ribs, and pork, and
                     bacon, and doughnuts, which lasted just as long as they lived; and they sent
                     the tail to the minister, and it was
                     put in the contribution-box for the heathen. And this is the history of all
                     three, the old man, and old woman, and thieves, and little piggy-wiggee."
                  All laughed as George rattled off and ended his rigmarole; but Amy said,
                     "That's just the way George always spoils my stories.!"
                  The next story was begun by James, and finished by Fanny. James loved Fanny. He
                     had loved her from childhood; he loved her while she lived. He still loves her;
                     time is transitory, but love is eternal. Fanny loved him,—it was the love of a
                     sweet sister for a kind brother. His affection was more ardent. It was the
                     idolatry of fond, heart-filling, yet unspoken love. He was of a thoughtful,
                     retiring turn. She was mildness and goodness personified.
               
               
                  (James.) "There is a broad, boundless ocean, which rolls its waves
                     upon a smooth and sandy shore, which borders the eastern side of a lovely
                     island. The island is lovely on that side; in other parts its features are more
                     forbidding. The waves generally roll softly there, over smooth, white sand; in
                     other parts, they beat boisterously against rugged rocks.
                  "A Genie came out of the ocean at early dawn, and sat upon the shore. He took
                     some fine sand and clay, and rolled them into figures of a curious form, and
                     left them to warm in the beams of the rising sun. And soon the sun warmed them,
                     and they began to move, for they received life from the sun. So they rose up
                     and walked side by side; and they seemed two pleasant children, a boy and a
                     girl, and they loved each other as brother and sister, for the Genie had formed
                     them to love each other. The little maiden was beautiful and good, and the boy
                     was loving and kind. And they walked along the smooth shore, and the waves
                     rippled over their tiny feet, and they chased each other, and chased the
                     rippling waves.
                  "So they walked along, and gathered beautiful shells and corals, and built gay
                     houses and mimic gardens upon the sandy shore; but soon the waves came and
                     washed them away; but they were not sorry, for they saw a fair lawn, with
                     beautiful flowers upon the banks, beyond the shore, and they ascended and
                     played upon the soft turf, and gathered roses. and lilies, and sweet
                     strawberries, and made little houses from branches of the bushes which grew
                     there. And they sang sweet songs, and repeated pleasant stories, and sometimes
                     they sat in silence, and inquired in their thoughts how they came to be there,
                     and if they were to live so happily there forever.
                  "Then the Genie came up out of the sea, and looked upon them, and they
                     wondered; but they were not afraid, for he looked kindly upon them, and they
                     asked him many questions, and he told them that his name was WISDOM, and he
                     would instruct them by and by.
                  "And soon the sun rose higher, and sent stronger rays of heat, and seared the
                     green turf where they played, and dried the beautiful flowers, and withered the
                     boughs of which they had builded mimic houses. But yet they did not grieve, for
                     they saw upon the side of the ascending hill tall trees, which cast a pleasant
                     shade and bore delicious fruits, while lambs and kids frisked among the fallen
                     leaves, and birds flew about. And they made friend's of the kids, and lambs,
                     and birds, and all they saw, and were well pleased with all, and especially
                     with each other; and if they wandered apart, they soon returned turned, for they were happier together than when
                     separated, and they inquired in their thoughts whether they should always live
                     together, and if they might still remain in this pleasant spot, and call it
                     their home.
                  "And the Genie came to instruct them as he had promised, for now they were old
                     enough to learn; and Fanny may tell the words he said, and what else came to
                     pass."
                  Fanny proceeded, with a soft and even voice, slow, but without hesitation,
                     thus:
                  The Genie told them all that they were capable of understanding, concerning the
                     mystery of their being;—that their outward forms were not made to last forever,
                     and were not reality an essential part of their being; and that they should
                     look upon their hands, and heads, and bodies, as but sand and clay, which they
                     must soon lay aside for other and better forms; and that the spirit within was
                     alone their true and essential selves, which would live and learn forever.
                  "He told them, too, that they might not long remain in this pleasant spot, for
                     he had another and far more beautiful home prepared for them, to which they
                     must arrive through various ways, some of which would be smooth, but some would
                     be rough; and then he pointed out to them distant mountains, whose tops reached
                     above the clouds, beyond which he said was their permanent an d happy home; and
                     that there was a safe though sometimes toilsome path over the mountains,
                     through which all, who followed his directions, safely found their way to the
                     happy home beyond.
                  "He told them, too, that perhaps they must soon be separated for a while, till
                     they should arrive at their journey's end; for that he had a shorter and easier
                     passage upon the ocean, on which he conveyed those who were too weak to travel
                     over the distant mountains; and that if he should take the maiden in that way,
                     still he would not leave the boy to pursue his path alone, but would send Faith
                     and Hope, who were two loving, Genies, to show him the way, and help him.
                  "When the young companions heard the Genie speak of separating them, they were
                     sad; but soon they reflected that their separation would be transient, but
                     their union eternal, and they considered that the good Genie, who had already
                     given them so many pleasant things, and who had told them so many true things,
                     which they could not otherwise have known, would still do what was best for
                     their happiness, and they were comforted. And they asked him to make them
                     acquainted with Faith and Hope; and he summoned them, and they came, soaring on
                     bright wings; and they looked so pleasant, and uttered such sweet words, that
                     the children felt assured that in such society they could pass whatever period
                     of separation the Genie, whose name was WISDOM, should appoint."
                  "And this," said Fanny, "is the best place where I can end the story."
                  A sadness, like that which the Genie's children felt when he spoke of their
                     separation, passed upon the spirit of James, for he associated himself and
                     Fanny in those forms of his imagination.
                  The schoolmaster was next requested to commence a story, to which he assented,
                     premising that, not beings very imaginative, he should tell them a true story,
                     which, however, they might finish as fancifully as they chose; and said that,
                     as most of the company probably knew something of the facts, he would suggest
                     that one of the gentlemen from abroad should finish the story. Hezekiah
                     nominated Harry, who assented; and
                     the schoolmaster, whose story was from what took place in his own school in the
                     past week, proceeded.
               
               
                  MATCH STORY.—III.
                  (Schoolmaster.) "One cold, snowy December morning, a flock of
                     country boys and girls assembled at a school-house, which was just large enough
                     for the district, and where they had made a wood-pile just as large as the
                     school-house. The boys had made an early fire, and the girls had swept the
                     room, and everything was prepared in expectation of the master, whom none of
                     them yet had ever seen. Pretty soon an oldish, homely-looking man was seen
                     coming, whom, as he was a stranger, they supposed to be the master. As he came
                     they saw the end of a ruler projecting from his great-coat pocket, and then
                     they knew it was the master.
                  "He walked in and took his place behind the desk, upon which he gave three loud
                     raps with his ruler, and the boys and girls took their places. The back part of
                     the room was furnished with writing-seats. A portion of the space in front had
                     forms, or benches, for pupils who did not write, and which were mostly occupied
                     by the smaller pupils.
                  "The pupils and their books generally presented as good an appearance a might
                     fairly be expected, except that upon one of the forms not furnished with
                     writing-benches sat a boy whose appearance was an exception to the general
                     tidiness of the school. He was larger than others who did not sit at
                     writing-benches; was poorly clad, especially about the feet; and had only a
                     tattered Webster's spelling-book, which he hold open at the lesson beginning
                     with 'baker.'
                  "The master asked his name, and, without looking up, he said Ax. The school
                     tittered; the master was puzzled, but asked his other name. The boy, confused,
                     hesitated, as if trying to think, and then lowly muttered, 'Jotham.' The
                     younger scholars again tittered, and the master was still more puzzled. Telling
                     the school, in a stern voice, to mind their lessons, he then told the boy to
                     pronounce his whole name aloud. After some consideration, he spoke
                     hesitatingly, as if not quite certain about it, 'Jotham Barker.' 'What did you
                     say Ax for?' ''Cause the boys all call me Ax.' 'That must not be permitted. No
                     boys of this school shall give you, or any of the pupils, nicknames.'
                  "Then, looking at his tattered book, the master asked him where was his lesson.
                     The boy pointed at 'baker.' 'And have you no other books?' He had
                     none. The master asked him how he came to be so backward. He didn't know. 'Have
                     you not always come to school with the other boys?' 'Yes,' he replied. 'Then
                     you must have been an idle boy,' said the master; and the boy, by his silence,
                     assented. 'Have you parents?' 'Yes,' said the boy. 'And what do they think of
                     your backwardness?' The boy, didn't know, and therefore didn't say. 'Suppose,'
                     said the master, 'your father should come in to see the school, and find his
                     boy the only idle and ignorant one, how do you think he would feel?' The boy
                     appeared more cast down. The thoughtless children tittered, for the idea of
                     that boy's father, a miserable drunkard, called, in derision, Bang, coming to
                     inspect the school, was altogether too amusing. The master looked sternly upon
                     them, and then at the boy more closely. He saw that there was some mystery in
                     the matter; and, telling the boy to, prepare his lesson, proceeded to organize
                     the school.
                  "In the afternoon, the master having examined case of the backward boy more thoroughly, and without
                     finding any natural deficiency or disability in him, told him to stop after
                     school, and he would talk with him. When the scholars had all gone, the master
                     sat down by the boy, and soon learned all his story. His father was a
                     drunkard,—all the time drunk,—he didn't have good clothes, like the other boys;
                     and so they 'looked down' upon him, and he hadn't anybody to give him books,
                     and nobody cared about him to teach him; but he wanted to learn, like the rest
                     of the boys, and not be an idle boy, and wished his father was not a
                     drunkard.
                  "The master, therefore, spoke encouraging words to the boy; told him that he
                     was his friend, and that he meant to make a good scholar of him. 'Do your
                     duty,' said he, 'and before the school is done the scholars will not look down
                     upon you,—perhaps some of them will look up to you.' The boy brightened up at
                     this thought, and the master dismissed him, telling him that they would turn
                     over a new leaf tomorrow; by which the boy thought he was to leave 'baker'
                     behind, which would indeed be a bold step.
                  "The master provided a new spelling-book, writing-book, and slate; and when Ax
                     came, next morning, bright with expectation, he was advanced to a seat with a
                     writing-bench, and put upon a course of exercises adapted to his age. His first
                     attempts were awkward enough; but the master was patient, and was rewarded by
                     seeing the encouraging progress of his pupil. He also called the attention of
                     one or two neighbors to the case, and soon the boy appeared with a new pair of
                     boots, and several other external improvements. Which is all I can tell of the
                     story."
                  Harry, who had listened, meditating how to finish it, proceeded in a light and
                     punning strain:
                  (Harry.) "This little Ax, being thus handled, became quite a
                     different instrument; and soon became as sharp as he had before been dull.
                     Being no longer cut by his companions, his temper improved, and people began to
                     see that he was made of the 'right stuff.' Whoever attempted to impose upon
                     him, found him a hard customer; and when disputes arose, he could use
                     knock-down arguments. After leaving 'baker,' he struck boldly at the tree of
                     knowledge; what he didn't know, he axed about, and soon got to know
                     everything.
                  "He was famous in mathematics, especially conic sections, division, and
                     fractions. He learned to chop logic, and could split hairs in metaphysics.
                     Those who had heretofore looked down upon him, and abused him, found it best to
                     be careful how they handled edged tools; and those whose trade it was to grind
                     the faces of the poor found it best not to grind him too much. After quitting
                     school, he became a merchant; and, by cutting down his prices, he cut out all
                     competitors, and soon was able to cut a great figure. He was no longer the
                     hatchet-faced 'baker' boy of the school. He became a politician, and struck a
                     bold stroke for Congress. When elected, he proved himself a patriot as
                     inflexible as iron, and true as steel. It was encouraging to hear what hard
                     knocks he gave to the hollow-hearted government, and what trimmings to the
                     underbrush of the political forest. After that, he became judge, and decided
                     causes with the wisdom of Solomon,—and after his manner, too, for he always
                     split the difference, and compelled quarrelsome litigants to bury the hatchet.
                     The longer he lived, the more edge he got; and finally, after making a good deal of noise in
                     the world, as became the son of Bang, he left his mark upon his generation, and
                     then died, or, as might be expressed, cut stick. His estate cut up rich, and a
                     handsome portion of it he bequeathed to the schoolmaster, who had brightened up
                     his faculties, and sharpened his wits. And this is the end of the last chapter
                     of Ax."
                  Alek was appointed to commence the next story, and Margaret to finish it. The
                     young people had associated Margaret with Alek, and the arrangement was
                     natural. In the present case, both would be glad to be excused, but each had
                     too much spirit to decline.
               
               
                  MATCH STORY.—IV.
                  (Alek.) "There is a country of considerable, but indefinite
                     extent, inhabited by an incomprehensible people. The country is called the Land
                     of Change,—not with reference to the currency, but to the instability of its
                     affairs. The people are sometimes called the Fools of Chance,—not wholly in
                     reference to their inaptitude to learn, but because their sagest conclusions
                     are often based upon some fatal error. The country is pleasant enough, and the
                     people, being accustomed to its instabilities, seem not much concerned about
                     them, but proceed in all their calculations and business just as if everything
                     were firm and reliable. There prevails a peculiar delusion among the people,
                     that each one seems to consider his own condition and calculations safe and
                     reliable, while each sees that his neighbor is at the mercy of demon
                     Chance.
                  "In this region dwelt a young man, who, having never been anywhere else,
                     thought it the finest country in the world. He owned a considerable territory,
                     embracing some beautiful views to be seen from his dwelling. It is uncertain
                     whether he owned the property by inheritance, or discovery, or possession.
                     Everything is uncertain in that country; and he did not scrutinize his title
                     very closely, perhaps from a vague apprehension that he might find a flaw in
                     it; for he was so charmed with his possessions that he could not bear to raise
                     a doubt about their permanence. So, taking the validity of his title for
                     granted, he proceeded to build a castle worthy of such valuable possessions,
                     and such fine prospects.
                  "He laid the foundations of his castle on the spot which commanded the best and
                     loveliest view upon his estate. He did not dig very deep for his foundations,
                     for he thought chiefly about the superstructure, and he soon raised and
                     completed it to his fancy. The front was of white marble, with spacious
                     windows, from which he viewed with delight the lovely scenery before him. The
                     rear and end walls were of hard granite, with massive buttresses, intended by
                     their strength to protect the slighter structure of the front. Everything
                     within and around was arranged in the most perfect order for convenience and
                     taste; for he had employed two famous artists of exceeding skill, whose names
                     were FANCY and HOPE; and, under their superintendence, everything was admirably
                     planned.
                  "When all was finished to the satisfaction of the proprietor, he took great
                     delight in looking from his spacious windows upon the prospects beyond. His
                     happiness would have been perfect, but for occasional misgivings about his
                     title, and regrets that he had not dug deeper for his foundation.
                  "One day, a stranger came, with whom the proprietor was much pleased, and who
                     seemed very much to admire the beautiful tiful prospect from the windows of the castle.
                     The proprietor left him looking from the windows, while he himself slept for a
                     while.
                  "When he awoke, he saw, from his window, that the stranger had taken a spade
                     and dug a trench in front of his castle, so that it was impossible to pass out
                     to his beautiful prospect beyond; and, though he could still see and admire it
                     from his window, it gave him pain, instead of pleasure, because it was
                     inaccessible.
                  "He saw, also, that the trench was dug so near his castle, that the front was
                     already undermined, and was sinking to its fall; for, the foundation not being
                     deep, it was easily overthrown. And when he knew that the stranger had a better
                     title than his own to the land, and the beautiful prospects before his castle,
                     and saw the impending destruction of all his possessions, he threw himself from
                     his castle windows into the trench which the stranger had dug, and, the walls
                     fell immediately, with a tremendous crash, and buried him beneath their ruins.
                     And this is the end, so far as I know anything about it."
                  As Alek proceeded in his story, Margaret perceived its hidden meaning, and that
                     Alek had not failed to observe and interpret her emotion. Her heart beat with
                     troublesome throbs. The surroundings of whalebone and steel, which, in polished
                     society, confine, contract, or obliterate that important organ, were unknown in
                     Wolfsden, and the hearts of women as of men, beat freely where rustic nature
                     placed them.
                  But, before Alek had ended, Margaret had composed her thoughts, and she thus
                     proceeded:
                  (Margaret.)"When the noise of the fall had subsided, the
                     proprietor opened his eyes, and, looking round, found that' nothing had fallen
                     but a slight vase of flowers, and that he had been all the time dreaming; for
                     there still sat the stranger, as sleepy as himself, and quite unaware of all
                     the imaginary trouble of which he had been made the instrument. But, though the
                     castle-builder was glad to awake and find himself whole and safe, he was
                     impressed with the warning of his dream. He reflected upon the folly of
                     building upon insecure foundations, and over-valuing prospects which he did not
                     own. He remembered that in that fickle country the liability to change was an
                     element which should be considered in every project; and that, as this could
                     not be guarded against, it must impair the value of every possession, and leave
                     less cause to regret its loss. He considered, also, that what was so insecure
                     might as in other respects, be less desirable than he had supposed; for, as he
                     had not travelled, he knew not what valuable possessions might be
                     unappropriated elsewhere, and to which he might obtain a better title. In
                     short, growing still more doubtful and dissatisfied with his present position,
                     he concluded to survey his castle anew. He found many things about it which,
                     now that the glare of novelty was worn off, seemed misplaced, inconvenient, and
                     even absurd. The castle was constructed in violation of all just proportions
                     and good taste; the foundation was even more insecure than he had feared, so
                     that he considered it unsafe even to return to waken the stranger whom he had
                     left sleeping in the window. He then resolved to abandon his fancied possession
                     without regret. 'I am young,' said he, 'the world is wide,—I will explore it
                     further, and will only fix my habitation when I have skill to choose wisely,
                     and can be well assured of my title.' And so he departed, wiser and far more
                     happy than before; for fortune had in store for him choicer things than he had imagined, but of which I am
                     not informed, and therefore, end the story here."
                  All applauded the story and its obvious moral, though Alek and Margaret were
                     the only ones who felt its particular application.
                  Isaac was next called upon for his story. Ike was humorous, loved burlesque,
                     and paid little attention to the probabilities or the moral of his stories, and
                     therefore, generally ran into wild extravagance. In the present case the
                     appointment fell upon Ann to finish the story.
               
               
                  MATCH STORY.—V.
                  (Isaac.) "An old man and old woman, and their daughter, lived
                     together in a castle.—A castle is as cheap to put in a story as a cottage; so
                     we'll give them a castle, for they had not much else. The old man was a
                     shoemaker, and his wife was a witch, and the daughter employed her time in
                     making nets for cabbage-heads, and fishing for gudgeons in a pond hard by.
                  "The country about the castle was pleasant enough, though rather wild, and
                     there were many very reputable and good people scattered about; but many of the
                     inhabitants were ignorant, and some were bad and cunning, for the ignorant and
                     bad often become cunning, just as the good and well-instructed often become
                     wise. Of these the worst and most ignorant were witches and fortune-tellers,
                     like the old woman in the castle. The old man was ignorant and bad, and also
                     cunning; and, thinking it easier to get his living by his cunning than by
                     industry, he went about to his neighbors and promised to bring them shoes, by
                     and by, if they would give him food, and clothes, and money, now. So they gave
                     him what he asked for, and he and his wife and his daughter ate heartily, and
                     dressed finely, while the good things lasted.
                  "But the old man did not make the shoes which he promised; and when they had
                     eaten up and worn out all they had, they were very poor; for the neighbors, who
                     had been cheated once, would not trust them again; but still they could not be
                     made to understand that honesty is better than cunning.
                  "So they concluded to practise the black art, which the daughter had already
                     partly learned from the old witch, her mother, and by which they hoped to gain
                     much money; and they went about in unfrequented places, and caught foxes, cats,
                     snakes, and lizards, and gathered thistle-tops, and buttercups; and the old
                     woman boiled them and made a kettle full of broth, and they spread the cats'
                     skins for a table-cloth, and sipped the broth for many days, until they had
                     acquired the nature of its ingredients, and were smooth, deceitful, ungrateful,
                     and poisonous.
                  When they had acquired all these fine accomplishments, they supposed that they
                     should do very well, as they could now transform themselves into the shapes of
                     all those odious creatures, and could return to their own forms when they
                     chose, by which tricks they hoped to make their fortunes.
                  "Then the old woman told her daughter, whose name was Mewy, to curl her hair in
                     little snaky tresses, and put some bright buttercup ribbons round her neck,
                     and, put on a pair of green lizard-skin shoes, and sit in the door, and purr
                     like a cat, and look sly like a fox; and when a nice young man should pass by,
                     he would stop and ask her to marry him.
                  "So she dressed herself as directed, and sat in the door, and purred like a
                     cat, and looked sly like a fox. And a good many nice young men came by, and
                     some of them stopped and heard her
                     purr, and admired her sly looks; but none of them asked her to marry.
                  "At last, a nice young man came by when she was purring her prettiest, and
                     looking her slyest, and he asked her to marry him. And she said yes, and gave
                     her hand to the young man; and it felt soft and smooth as velvet; the sharp
                     claws were drawn in.
                  "Pretty soon the old man came in, and, finding that his daughter had entrapped
                     a nice young man, he spoke very civilly to him, and asked to borrow his watch,
                     which the young man willingly lent, and went home very happy without it; for he
                     was in love with the daughter, and he dreamed that night that he was lucky as
                     Whittington, who became Lord Mayor by means of a cat.
                  "The next day being rainy, he took his umbrella and came and sat by Mewy, and
                     listened to her purring, and took her soft, velvety hand, and admired her sly
                     looks, and snaky curls, and lizard shoes. And the old man came in and borrowed
                     his umbrella; and the nice young man went home and dreamed that he had been a
                     voyage with Sinbad the Sailor, and had found a great many diamonds in the
                     valley of snakes.
                  "The next day was muddy, and he put on his overshoes and went, and was
                     entertained as before. And the old man came in and borrowed his overshoes, and
                     he went home in his slippers; and that night he dreamed of King Midas, who wore
                     asses' ears; and he was much puzzled and a little alarmed about its meaning,
                     for the dream had been sent by his good genius to give him warning.
                  "So he went the next day to get back his watch, and umbrella, and overshoes.
                     But Mewy had hidden them; and when he went to search for them she flew at him
                     and squalled like a mad cat, and thrust out her sharp claws, so that he was
                     glad to escape without watch, umbrella, or overshoes. And he dreamed that night
                     about Christian and Hopeful, who escaped from the den of the Giant Despair; and
                     he came no more to see Mewy.
                  "But there lived back in the mountains a countryman named Bruin. He lived there
                     so long alone that he became very rustic and clownish, and, as he killed and
                     ate many bears, he became much like a bear in manners and disposition; and,
                     when he was tired of living alone, he came down out of the mountains, and asked
                     Mewy to marry him. And she said yes, and looked sly, and purred softly; and he
                     gave her a hug, like a bear; for he liked her very much, and knew nothing of
                     her sharp claws; or, if he knew, he did not care, for his skin was tough.
                  "After a while the old man came in, and, seeing that Bruin was in love, and was
                     also very fat, he begged to borrow some fat. But Bruin answered, roughly, that
                     he had no fat to lend; and after a while Bruin went home, and dreamed that he
                     had found a bee-hive, which, on trial, yielded no honey, but proved to be a
                     wasps' nest. This dream was sent by his good genius, but Bruin paid no
                     attention to it.
                  "When Bruin came again he gave Mewy another hug, and heard her purr, and was
                     more delighted than ever. And the old man came in and begged to borrow his
                     bear-skin coat; but Bruin answered, with a growl, that he chose to keep his
                     coat for his own use.
                  "When he was gone the family had a consultation whether Mewy should marry
                     Bruin. The old man thought it would not pay; for Bruin was too wise, and meant
                     to keep his good things to himself. But the old woman was in favor of the match; for Mewy was getting
                     old, and might not have another offer; and she thought that when Mewy was
                     married to Bruin they might be able to borrow, or beg, or steal fat, and fur,
                     and other good things, from him.
                  "But Mewy said she would not make up her mind just then; but would keep Bruin
                     along, as she could marry him at any time; but, if she should have any better
                     offer, she would dismiss him. So Bruin came frequently, and would hug Mewy, and
                     she would purr and look sly, but would not name a day to marry him; for she
                     still hoped for a better offer. And this is all I can say about it."
                  (Anne). "In another part of the country was a place called 'Happy
                     Home.' It was a pleasant cottage by the bank of a beautiful stream, with green
                     meadows, and fruitful fields, and shady trees, and cows, and sheep, and
                     everything delightful.
                  "In the Cottage lived a brother and sister, whose names were Manalone and
                     Maralone; and the sister had two beautiful children, and they all four lived
                     very happily in the cottage, and took care of their grounds, and had plenty of
                     milk, and butter, and wool, and a fine garden, where grew all varieties of
                     fruit. And the sister was a wise woman, and taught her children properly, so
                     that love and contentment prevailed in Happy Home.
                  "But the brother one day had occasion to travel; and he saddled his pony and
                     rode all day, and towards night he passed by a castle, and saw a woman with
                     curls, and ribbons, and green lizard-skin shoes, and asked of her the way. And
                     she looked very demure and amiable, and invited him to stop and rest. And the
                     old man came out and urged him to tarry; and, being tired, he consented to
                     remain all night. And the woman, whose name was Mewy, looked sly, and purred,
                     and tried to appear amiable; but Manalone said he was tired, and went to
                     bed.
                  "While he slept the family held a consultation. And the old woman said that she
                     had heard much about Manalone; that he was generous, and gave away a great many
                     things, and if Mewy should marry him they would all get a good living from him.
                     And the old man said the same, and Mewy said she would try to get him.
                  "In the morning, when Manalone got up, they all pretended to like him very
                     much, and gave him breakfast, and invited him to come and see them again. And
                     he thought they were very nice people, and asked them to come and see him and
                     Maralone at Happy Home. Mewy said she would certainly come, and then Manalone
                     returned home.
                  "After a time, Mewy dressed herself in her best, and curled her hair, and put
                     on her ribbons and her lizard-skin shoes, and commenced her journey. She walked
                     fast all day, and at bright arrived at Happy Home. Manalone and his sister were
                     glad to see her, for they thought she was as good as she appeared.
                  "And she remained many days, and helped Maralone take care of the children, and
                     pretended to love them. And Manalone thought she would be a pleasant companion
                     to him and his sister; and he asked her to marry him, and she said yes. And he
                     went and told his sister that Mewy had promised to marry him, and live with
                     them.
                  "But his sister felt sad when she heard it; for she loved her brother and their
                     happy home, and she feared that any alteration might lessen their happiness.
                     And, besides, she had begun to fear that Mewy as not quite so good as she
                        seemed; for Maralone was wiser
                     than her brother, and had learned to look more deeply into character. But when
                     she knew that he had promised to marry Mewy, she did not oppose it, but hoped
                     for the best.
                  "That night Manalone dreamed that he went a voyage with Sinbad the Sailor, and
                     came to a desert island, and the Old Man of the Sea came and got on his
                     shoulders, and he could not get him off. This dream was sent by his good genius
                     to give him warning; but Manalone was too much infatuated to understand it, and
                     pretty soon he married Mewy.
                  "When Mewy was established in Happy Home, she soon showed her real character
                     for, though put in possession of all the pleasant things she had coveted, she
                     was not content to enjoy them in peaceful partnership, but was like the fox, of
                     whose nature she partook, which, though fed bounteously, instinctively carries
                     away his food and hides it, to eat in solitude. So Mewy sought by stealth, or
                     violence, to obtain exclusive possession of the benefits provided for all. To
                     this end, her first efforts were to drive Maralone from Happy Home; and she
                     soon succeeded in making her position so unpleasant that she was compelled to
                     go, with her two children, to another house.
                  "Manalone was unhappy when he found that he had brought trouble to Happy Home.
                     He visited his sister often, and tried to comfort her. And Maralone talked with
                     him, and told him it was best to bear their trials patiently; for there was
                     another house building for them on the other side of the river, which they
                     would soon be permitted to dwell in, and where no wicked person could come to
                     trouble them.
                  "And Maralone appeared very bright and cheerful when she spoke of this,
                     although she soon grew pale and feeble; and after a while she told her brother
                     that her house was ready on the other side of the river, and that she had great
                     riches stored there, and also some dear friends were there expecting her, who
                     had provided everything to make her happy.
                  "She also told her brother to get ready to follow soon; and then, being quite
                     prepared she went down to the river, and her brother went with her to the
                     shore, and she stepped cheerfully in, and was soon out of sight; for there was
                     a mist hung over the river, so that her brother could not see across it; but he
                     knew that she had gone to another happy home, of which she could not be
                     deprived; and, though he felt lonely, he rejoiced that she had passed away from
                     her sorrows.
                  "And after that Manalone walked often by the river, and tried to look across
                     it, but the thick mist prevented. Yet, as he grew old, and his face grew thin,
                     and his hair grew white, his sight became clearer; and sometimes, as he walked
                     by the river, he thought he could see sweet fields and beautiful dwellings, and
                     many very happy people; and among others his sister Maralone, and others dear
                     to them both, and one loved dearer than all, and that they were beckoning him
                     to come; and he resolved that he would prepare to go as soon as possible."
                  
                  Hezekiah was next invited to take his turn, to which he assented, premising
                     that whatever interest they might find in his story must not be credited to his
                     imagination, as he should only repeat the beginning of a manuscript story, long
                     preserved in his family, and which Helen, having heard their grandmother repeat, was qualified to
                     finish. With this preface, he began.
               
               
                  MATCH STORY.—VI.
                  (Hezekiah.) "The mysteries of the Salem witchcraft are such that
                     time cannot solve them, till we know more of the spiritual world, and of our
                     relations to it. Much of it was doubtless imposture, and this fact gave
                     currency to the belief that it was wholly so; but there are circumstances which
                     cannot be so interpreted without disregarding the strongest evidence to the
                     contrary. The story which I am about to give could be supported by such proof
                     as would be difficult, at least, to explain away, if any benefit could be
                     anticipated from the verification of such wonders. But it seems useless to
                     pursue investigation into the truth of facts, which, when established, cannot
                     be understood, or employed for any useful purpose.
                  "There lived in Salem village—now Danvers—during the Andros administration of
                     the colonial government of Massachusetts, a gentleman of the name, of Levering,
                     of high social position, and supposed to be very wealthy. He held some office,
                     which required occasional attendance at the seat of government; at other times,
                     and, indeed, most of the time, he resided at home.
                  "His house was an aristocratic mansion, situated upon a rising ground, and
                     surrounded by a walled park, through which were various avenues, smoothly
                     gravelled and bordered by box and other evergreens. The ample grounds, so well
                     arranged, and neatly kept, the elegant carriage and horses, the costly style
                     and furniture of the mansion, all bespoke the owner's affluence and taste.
                  "The appearance of the proprietor was in keeping with his estate. His air and
                     manners indicated habitual superiority, though there was nothing arrogant or
                     offensive in his deportment to those about him, who were generally willing
                     enough to yield the deference which wealth and power claim from the humble.
                  "His wife, though seldom seen, was well known to be a lady of remarkable
                     gentleness and sweetness of disposition, and possessed of that peculiar kind of
                     piety which tends to humility and good works. She was regarded, therefore, with
                     as much real reverence and love as her lord was with apparent deference and
                     submission. Both, however, were known to belong to the Episcopal party, and
                     were supposed to be church communicants; which, in that Puritan community, much
                     impaired the influence they might have possessed.
                  "Apart, and at some distance from the elegant estate, dwelt Goodman Hobart, a
                     plain farmer, of simple habits, but strong character, and highly valued by Mr.
                     Levering as neighbor and friend.
                  "Goody Hobart, the good man's wife, was a quiet-looking, motherly sort of a
                     woman, of a remarkable knack at keeping her house in good order. She had lost
                     her two elder children, but her youngest, a fine boy of about six years, was
                     enough to employ a mother's care and solicitude; and well he repaid it, for
                     even at that age he could read the 'New England Primer,' answer the easy
                     questions (by which is meant those with brief answers) in the catechism, and
                     repeat the 'Dialogue of Christ, Youth, and the Devil.'
                  "Goody Hobart was more familiar at the 'mansion' than her husband, for the lady
                     not only frequently sent for her under pretence of asking advice about domestic
                     affairs, which was always followed
                     by a cup of tea;—a rare treat in those days,—but would often come over to the
                     farmhouse and spend an hour, taking great interest in the dairy, chickens,
                     &c., which Goody was only too well pleased to show to so pleasant a lady.
                     She also frequently invited young Azariah, and made him more familiar with the
                     mansion than anybody else.
                  "After a time these visits ceased on the lady's part, but Goody's became more
                     frequent; and, after a little longer time, Goody had the good news to tell that
                     the lady had a fine little daughter; but soon after the good news was saddened
                     with the addition that the lady was very low, that it was feared she was
                     declining; and, after a few weeks, the fears were confirmed,—the lady was dead.
                     Great was her husband's grief, for great was his loss. Goody Hobart was
                     entreated to take the superintendence of his daughter into her own hands, which
                     she willingly assented to.
                  "During the following three years, the infant Jane—for so she was named—grew
                     and improved in every childish grace. At the end of three years Mr. Levering
                     announced to Goody Hobart his approaching second marriage, and in less than a
                     month brought his new bride to his old mansion.
                  "When Goody Hobart saw the bride he had brought to take the place of the
                     favorite lady, and to be the mother to the child whom she had cherished so
                     long, she felt an instinctive dread and aversion towards her, without knowing
                     why. The new lady was tall and elegant in her person and manners, with a smile
                     sufficiently condescending, and a self-possession and promptitude of action
                     which indicated sufficient capability. Little Jane shrunk from her at first;
                     but, being told by her father that it was her new mamma, came confidingly to
                     her, for she had been taught sweet associations with that word. The mansion was
                     again inhabited, Jane was installed by her father's desire in her mother's
                     favorite chamber, and things were returned to their old order. But in their old
                     order they did not long remain. The new lady chose to signalize her accession
                     by innovations of no slight character. Painting, gliding, costly hangings, and
                     rich and showy furniture, changed its former elegant but unostentatious aspect.
                     Soon the old housekeeper and gardener were discharged, the number of servants
                     largely increased, some of them put in livery, and all the modes of
                     vulgar-minded display were adopted by which wealth may be made to excite envy,
                     hatred, or contempt.
                  "By the lady's persuasion, her husband was induced to take a great share in
                     some moonshine speculation then rife, in which great gains were promised to
                     adventurers; and this, with the lavish expenditures of his lady, so embarrassed
                     Levering's affairs, that he was driven into bankruptcy.
                  He bore his misfortune with magnanimity, but its effects upon the lady were
                     marked and violent. She was no way subdued or disheartened by the misfortune,
                     but provoked to stronger and worse manifestations of energy. Her first efforts
                     were to abstract and conceal as large a portion of the property as possible;
                     and then to dispute, inch by inch, the creditors' claim to what remained.
                  "When the available effects were sold, and the establishment reduced to
                     reasonable limits, enough still remained, with the income of his office, for
                     decent support; but not enough to satisfy, or even mollify, the lady, who had
                     not been content when in possession of the whole. She constantly beset her
                     husband with complaints, reproaches, predictions of utter destitution ad
                     assurances of the present contempt of all his acquaintances; for she could have no idea of respectability apart
                     from riches, and since her husband had lost his wealth she had lost even the
                     semblance of respect for him. In her harangues she urgently advised him to
                     bestir himself and retrieve their fortune, giving numerous instances of others'
                     success, and suggesting various schemes of her own, some of them absurd, and
                     others of still worse character. Mr. Levering, lacking energy to repel these
                     assaults, and tired of their perpetual din, took refuge in the bottle, to
                     which, since his last marriage, he had become accustomed.
                  His former intimacy with his neighbor Hobart had nearly come to an end. Neither
                     the good man nor his wife were seen at the mansion; but Azariah, a tall, smart
                     lad, of ten or eleven years, was a favorite with Mr. Levering, and especially
                     with little Jane, who visited Goody Hobart's house with unrestrained liberty,
                     where she was always gladly welcomed.
                  Mr. Jeremiah Raven, a young clergyman, of solemn deportment and much zeal,
                     recently ordained, and particularly recommended by the Rev. Increase Mather,
                     President of Harvard College, as a young man of godly spirit and great promise,
                     was at that time resident with Mr. Parris, then minister of Salem village. Mr.
                     Raven frequently visited Goodman Hobart, and took a great liking to little
                     Jane, which he manifested by much serious instruction and counsel, and by
                     hearing frequently her recitations in the catechism. Azariah also shared the
                     admonitions and instructions of the earnest young minister.
                  "About that time was frequently seen in that vicinity a stranger, whose
                     appearance excited much attention and remark, because no one knew, or could
                     obtain any account of him. He was first met by some children in a retired lane,
                     at a little distance from the village. He was a tall well-formed person, of
                     quick motion, though uneven gait. He wore large-brimmed hat, not looped up in
                     the fashion of the time, but flapping. His outer garment resembled the cassock
                     worn by priests, and was of such length as to touch the ground. One of the
                     children got a glimpse of his face, and described it as pale and thin, with a
                     hooked nose, and a terrible sharp eye.
                  "After this he was often seen in various places, always alone, and walking
                     quickly, but never far from the village; and never by more than one or two at a
                     time, except when he was first met by the children. Sometimes his sudden
                     appearance was extraordinary; for persons affirmed that when travelling the
                     road, with no one in sight, suddenly the stranger would appear within a few
                     yards, and pass without greeting, and, after passing, would disappear as
                     quickly. It was also remarked that he was never seen, except at a distance, by
                     either of the ministers, or other men of reliable standing in the church; but
                     frequently by women, children, and the lighter sort of young men.
                  "Soon after, it was found that the mysterious stranger was an acquaintance, or
                     had formed an acquaintance, with the lady at the mansion. It was not known
                     whether he visited there; but he was seen walking and conversing with the lady
                     in the dusk of the evening, at some distance from the house, and sometimes in
                     the twilight, in places so retired as would have excited a scandal, but for
                     their extremely serious deportment; and it was observed that the lady became
                     more gloomy and discontented than ever. It was also noticed that her formerly
                     rather handsome countenance had become prematurely changed to an ugly and
                     peculiarly unpleasant aspect; and her complexion became of a blighted yellow
                     color, with innumerable small wrinkles, like those upon leaves exposed to a
                     scorching heat, while her eyes,
                     never remarkable for frankness of expressions, were now always turned aside,
                     with a suspicious glance. This was talked of more freely afterward, but noticed
                     by several at that time.
                  "Mr. Levering, when at home, sat sometimes in the parlor with his bottle,
                     sometimes in the library with his books, and sometimes with his daughter in her
                     chamber, or in the garden. Since his loss of fortune the old housekeeper had
                     been restored by Mr. Levering's influence, and she was now specially
                     commissioned with the care of Jane.
                  "Little Jane's chamber was, as has been observed, that which was formerly her
                     mothers, and in which the daughter was born. In the late renovation of the
                     house, this room, by Mr. Levering's express command, had been left undisturbed.
                     Everything remained as when her mother lived and died. Her favorite books lay
                     upon her dressing-case; her work-basket, with its light implements, stood upon
                     the toilet-table; the mirror which had reflected her fair form, and the
                     portrait painted in her bridal bloom, still hung against the wall. Here Jane
                     slept; here she said her morning and evening prayers; and here her father spent
                     many pleasant hours with her, notwithstanding the untoward circumstances
                     around, and notwithstanding his degenerating habits. Into this room the
                     stepmother never came. Mrs. Jenkins' room was on another floor, a few steps
                     lower, but nearly adjoining.
                  "A few days after the stranger spoken of was seen conversing with the lady, it
                     happened that two young men of the village, Dick Furlong and Harry Wilder,
                     being near the mansion, one evening, a little after dusk, saw a heavy wagon,
                     drawn by four small black horses, stop suddenly in front of the avenue leading
                     up to the house; several men, small of stature, but of wonderful activity and
                     strength, commenced unloading heavy bales and boxes, throwing them with
                     reckless violence over the way, and against the iron gate. The articles were of
                     various sizes, but all evidently of great weight; yet the men handled and
                     tossed them, one over another, as if they were bags of feathers. This they did
                     with the most extravagant feats of activity,—vaulting, throwing somersets,
                     leaping over one another's heads, all the time shouting and screaming in the
                     most uproarious manner. One little fellow, with red hair and enormous whiskers,
                     seized an iron-bound chest of twice his size, and threw it from the wagon sheer
                     over the gate upon the gravelled walk beyond, where it imbedded itself deeply
                     in the solid earth. There were many boxes and bales; some square, some like
                     enormous iron kettles, some like coffins, and some bound about as if with the
                     hides of animals; but all were believed to be filled with silver coin, and
                     other valuables. The men were but a few moments unloading; though the load was
                     large; and all this time their extravagance of behavior increased. One
                     outlandish fellow, with large silver earrings, and with his hair braided behind
                     in an enormous pigtail, seized a coffin-shaped box, and, placing, it
                     perpendicularly upon his head, marched up to the gate, and leaping over it with
                     an unearthly shout, ran up the avenue to the house, where, with a toss, of the
                     head, he deposited it upon the door-stone, still in an upright position.
                     Another, following his example, crowned himself with a huge kettle, and danced
                     up the avenue in the same style, followed in like manner by the others. In
                     returning for the remaining bales, they threw somersets over each other's
                     heads, ran rapidly upon all fours, or upon their hands with their heels
                     elevated in the air, and all the time laughing and shouting and uttering uncouth sounds, like
                     words of some unknown language. The door was seen to be opened by the lady
                     herself, and the strange porters, with their strange loads, disappeared within
                     the house in the same manner. Meantime, the horses were impatiently pawing and
                     neighing in the street, while a cloud of smoke ascended front their nostrils,
                     and their eyes gleamed with strange brightness.
                  After a few moments, during which, tremendous blows and crashing sounds, mixed
                     with shouts and laughter, were heard in the house, the men returned, rushing
                     down the avenue like bedlam broke loose, leaping and screaming as before, till,
                     reaching their wagon, they sprang into it, and drove off with reckless speed,
                     scattering a shower of fire form the clattering hoofs of their steeds, till
                     they disappeared in the darkness.
                  The main circumstances of this story were afterward verified by examination of
                     the ground, where the deep indentations made by the wagon-wheels, the horses'
                     hoofs, and the heavy boxes, long remained visible. Nor was the probability of
                     the story at all lessened by the fact that the extraordinary shouts and noises
                     described by the young men were not heard by others who might be supposed
                     within ear-shot; neither at Goodman Hobart's, nor even by the housekeepers, or
                     others in the mansion itself; for this only proved the diabolical nature, of
                     the whole transaction, as it was well known, and afterwards frequently proved,
                     that the arch enemy can control the laws of sound when it suits his purposes.
                     Further insight, amounting in many minds to a perfect explanation of the
                     matter, was derived from the lady's immediately launching out into all her
                     former extravagance, scattering money with ostentatious profusion. But it was
                     notorious that those who received her money were not able to retain it long; it
                     having the same tendency to fly lightly away as was shown when tossed through
                     the air, by the demon porters.
                  At this time, Mr. Raven, having become acquainted with Mr. Levering through the
                     medium of his child, occasionally called at the mansion. Walking in, one day,
                     unannounced, he overheard the lady, in loud tones, urging her husband to sign
                     some writing, against which he, though with apparent irresolution, objected. As
                     Mr. Raven came in sight, the lady suddenly retreated; but he could see,
                     notwithstanding her efforts to conceal it, that she carried away a large red
                     book, with brass clasps. Mr. Levering welcomed him with evident gladness, as if
                     suddenly relieved from something disagreeable, but gave no intimation of the
                     temptation with which, in Mr. Raven's opinion, he had been assailed. Once or
                     twice, indeed, he seemed as if about to speak on some weighty topic, and then
                     suddenly changed his mind. Mr. Raven was deeply impressed with forebodings of
                     some impending calamity to the house; but, as he could obtain no clue to the
                     subject, he discharged his duty by earnest conversation with Mr. Levering
                     concerning the value of the soul, winding up with the text, 'Resist the devil,
                     and he will flee from you.' Mr. Levering heard with attention, but with no sign
                     of that deep impression which Mr. Raven hoped to make.
                  "This was in the autumn, and soon afterward Mr. Raven returned to Cambridge for
                     the winter, where he enjoyed the instructions of the reverend president, and
                     also much of the companionship of his son, the Rev. Cotton Mather, then
                     colleague with his father in the ministry of the North Church, in Boston. The
                     encouragement and guidance of these learned and godly ministers was of the utmost benefit to
                     him in preparing him for the trials and conflicts with the devil, which he was
                     shortly to encounter. The 'Remarkable Providences' of the elder Mather, giving
                     full accounts and proofs of many cases of witchcraft, was then a work of
                     standard authority; to which the son had recently added his book of 'Memorable
                     Providences,' relating to the same subject; both of which Mr. Raven studied
                     faithfully.
                  "No events of note occurred at Salem village during that winter, except that
                     the mysterious stranger was several times seen near the mansion. But in the
                     following spring, when Mr. Raven returned and renewed his visits to Mr.
                     Levering, he was struck with the great change in his manner, being much more
                     reserved and gloomy than formerly; from which Mr. Raven inferred that the lady
                     had prevailed upon him to sign the 'Red Book with Brazen Clasps,' the
                     diabolical character of which he no longer doubted. Mr. Levering's uneasiness
                     and impatience, when the subject was approached, was sample confirmation of
                     those fears.
                  One day, when Mr. Raven was passing into the library of Mr. Levering, he heard
                     loud talking in an adjoining room; and, the door being slightly ajar, he saw
                     the mysterious stranger, whom he had never before seen but at a distance, now
                     in earnest conversation with the lady; the earnestness, however, being mostly
                     on her part, he seeming to be quite cool, especially when we
                     consider his probable character. It was only a part of the conversation he
                     heard, yet sufficient to give a clue to the whole. 'I tell you,' said the lady,
                     ''t was for twenty years—for twenty years, that I signed the contract.' 'And I
                     tell you,' said the diabolical gentleman, 'that it is twenty months only; of
                     which ten are already past. You may look for yourself,' said he, producing the
                     identical 'Red Book.' The lady glanced at a page, and immediately assumed an
                     attitude of horror and despair. The diabolical gentleman calmly reminded her
                     that it was no use to fret about what could not be helped. 'Besides,' said he,
                     'we can compromise the matter;—only get me a couple more good signatures, and I
                     will extend the bond to twenty years.'
                  "But the lady sat fixed in stony rigidity, as though she heard him not. Then,
                     springing from the sofa with a piercing shriek, she exclaimed, "O, wretched
                     woman! O, vile cheat!' intermingling her lamentations with the fiercest
                     denunciations, and all the time springing about the room with hysterical and
                     superhuman energy, so that her head nearly struck against the ceiling at every
                     bound.
                  "While thus employed, the diabolical gentleman looked calmly on, with malignant
                     satisfaction, until, the lady's energy being exhausted, she sat upon the floor
                     sobbing convulsively, when he again renewed the conversation, telling her there
                     was no need of so much fuss; the case was not so bad, after all; he was willing
                     to be reasonable; concluding by telling her to get two more signatures, and the
                     writing should be made to read her own way. The lady reminded him that she had
                     already got one signature; to which he assented, but said he wanted two more.
                     The conversation then subsided, so that the reverend listener could only hear
                     disconnected words; from which he inferred that the contract, whatever it was;
                     was being remodelled; and, hearing the word 'children,' among others, he easily
                     divined the nature of the new condition, which he piously resolved to prevent,
                     knowing that his warfare with the
                     'Prince of Darkness' was now approaching a crisis.
                  "On passing into the library, he found Mr. Levering quietly engaged in reading;
                     and, on inquiry, found that he had been no way alarmed, having not even heard
                     the din and uproar in the room so nearly adjoining; of which being informed, he
                     went quickly into the lady's chamber, but found no one there, save the lady
                     herself, quietly sewing. The supernatural character of the event was thus
                     proved, as also the fact that Satan can prevent the transmission of sounds, to
                     suit his purposes, except to clerical ears, which are privileged to hear, in
                     spite of Satan; for which, also, Mr. Raven found warrant in the text, 'He that
                     hath ears to hear, let him hear;' which he interpreted to mean,
                     'purged or ordained ears.'
                  It was well that Mr. Raven was thus put upon guard against the plots for
                     entrapping the souls of the two children; for he was enabled, that very
                     evening, to rescue young Azariah from a terrible danger. His father having sent
                     him on an errand to a remote part of the farm, Mr. Raven, who was sitting in an
                     open window, soon heard screams and cries proceeding from that quarter; upon
                     which, taking a Bible under one arm, and a staff in his hand, he proceeded with
                     haste in that direction. He found Azariah quite alone. Upon being questioned
                     about the sounds, he had not heard them, nor seen anyone; but Mr. Raven had
                     seen a shadowy female form gliding through some bushes near a fence, which
                     quickly appeared to change into a black animal, with a very long body, but
                     extremely short legs, keeping in the full shadows till it disappeared. Mr.
                     Raven was fully convinced that his timely appearance had saved the boy from a
                     dangerous, if not fatal temptation. The matter was laid before Mr. Parris, who
                     agreed that it required active care and watchfulness, until some decisive
                     measures could be adopted. Mr. Levering was also warned of all the
                     circumstances; and, though affecting to disbelieve their diabolical character,
                     and solemnly averring his own innocence of any engagement with the devil, in
                     confirmation of which he repeated perfectly the Lord's prayer, which no one who
                     has signed the devil's book can do, yet he engaged to watch carefully all
                     proceedings in his own house, and especially to keep little Jane always in his
                     sight, except when in the charge of the trusty Mrs. Jenkins, or when sleeping
                     in her sainted mother's chamber, from which the lady always kept away.
                  "The lady and her associates, in league with the powers of darkness, are
                     supposed at this time to have arranged their plan of proceedings on a larger
                     scale; her first effort being doubtless to obtain the two signatures, which
                     were partly overheard by Mr. Raven to be the condition of prolonging her own
                     term to twenty years.
                  "It was on a gloomy evening, in the latter part of March, about a week after
                     the last-mentioned affair, that Mr. Raven, who had been all day pondering upon
                     these events, while sitting in the house of Mr. Parris, had occasion to go to
                     the outer door. It was very dark; it had been snowing or raining most of the
                     day, and a thick fog had settled down with nightfall into an Egyptian gloom.
                     Suddenly, while standing in the door, he heard piercing screams and cries of
                     distress proceeding from a northerly direction, and seemingly at no great
                     distance. Returning immediately to the house, he armed himself with his Bible
                     and staff, as before, and, without waiting for a lantern, hurried in the
                     direction whence the sounds
                     proceeded. Immediately he felt himself partly raised from the ground by an
                     invisible power, and borne in the direction of the sound at a rapid rate.
                     Although it had been perfectly calm when he started, the wind now blew in his
                     face with great force, but not at all impeding his progress. His feet, as he
                     successively raised them in his eager haste, appeared to span many rods of
                     ground at each step, and always came down, though in perfect darkness, upon
                     smooth and solid ground, though he knew he was passing where no road led, and
                     though the ground was everywhere, at that season, rough with dissolving ice and
                     snow, or soft and miry; and he afterwards observed that, while thus impetuously
                     borne along, the text revolved in his mind as applicable to his case, 'And in
                     their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot
                     against a stone.'
                  "After being thus rapidly borne, or rather impelled along, for the space of an
                     hour, the invisible power left him standing in a wild and solitary place, where
                     a wonderful and terrific sight was spread before him. A large space, covering
                     an acre or more, was lighted up by what seemed to be the mouths of innumerable
                     ovens, from which murky and sulphurous flames, with clouds of smoke, were
                     belched forth. Around, in a wide circle, irregularly enclosing the whole
                     ground, stood giant forms, waving their arms, and brandishing strange weapons.
                     These appeared to be the sentinels of the infernal camp. Enclosed within their
                     magic circle were innumerable lesser demons, many of grotesque deformity and
                     low stature, and of a dark color, but evidently of amazing strength, all still
                     and silent, and waiting as if for some word of command. In scattered groups
                     were others, all of like infernal aspect, engaged, some in feeding the
                     sulphurous ovens, or pouring fluids into huge seething caldrons, and others
                     employed in strange and obscene rites. Near the centre was elevated an altar,
                     on which were spread instruments of incantation, intermixed with various
                     vessels, filled, no doubt, with the deadly compounds of sorcery; and among all
                     was seen the Red Book with Brazen Clasps. Yet no sounds proceeded from this
                     strange assemblage, except now and then low mutterings, which doubtless were
                     the secret forms and ceremonies of sorcery. Near the altar the most prominent
                     in this scene of horrors, a monstrous figure was seen. Its form could not be
                     clearly discerned. It seemed in a recumbent or prostrate position, like a huge
                     dragon, of which the head and shoulders were uplifted, while the body lay
                     extended for a great distance in the obscure darkness. Snaky heads arose on
                     twisted and spiral necks from its huge shoulders, with arms and claws diverging
                     on every side. It seemed that the Prince of Darkness had taken this horrible
                     form for some more than common infernal purpose; or, perhaps, this was the very
                     gate of hell, and this the Evil One in his accustomed form, and this his altar
                     where his worshippers serve him with impious rites. But who can describe the
                     terror that curdled the blood of the man of God, as he saw, dimly indeed, yet
                     so plainly that, by spiritual aid, he could clearly make them out, a group,
                     composed of the diabolical gentleman already so well known, with the wretched
                     lady of the mansion, and the two children, Azariah and Jane, whom their
                     devilish arts had inveigled, or their supernatural power (permitted for a time
                     for wise purposes) had brought hither.
                  "Mr. Raven now understood the purpose for which, in this wonderful manner, he
                     was brought hither. Single-handed and alone, he was appointed to confront and
                     overthrow the camp of hell,
                     entrenched upon their chosen ground, and in the moment of their triumph. The
                     peril of the children admitted of no delay. 'Should such a man as I flee?'
                     thought he. Looking upwards, he uttered a short and fervent prayer. Raising his
                     Bible aloft in one hand, and his staff in the other, he rushed forward,
                     exclaiming aloud, in the solemn form of adjuration, which, when thus
                     authoritatively spoken, the powers of hell can never resist, 'IN NOMINE PATRIS,
                     FILII ET SPIRITUS SANCTI, ADJURO VOS, O SATANAS, ET OMNES DIABOLI,
                     ABSCEDITE.'
                  "At the sound, the infernal assembly were struck with a divine terror; and, as
                     the hosts of the Midianites fled when the son of Joash and the three companies
                     of valiant men shouted 'The sword of the Lord and of Gideon' (Judges 7:20),
                     this demoniac host shrank back in terror, and started in the very act of
                     flight; when, either through his own fault, in not taking heed to his way, or,
                     more likely, from the machinations of the Enemy, his feet stumbled, and he
                     fell.
                  "He was sorely wounded and stunned by his fall, his Bible and staff fell from
                     his hands, and the Enemy, taking advantage of his unarmed condition, seized
                     him, to work all manner of afflictions upon him, even as they were permitted to
                     use power over the holy Job, not touching his life.
                  "Four strong demons seized him, and bound him with thongs to a sort of bier, in
                     a position of intolerable pain, so that he could not move, while hundreds, nay,
                     thousands, of internal creatures danced around, with exulting outcries and
                     horrible grimaces. Overcome with pain and terror, he fell into insensibility;
                     and, when again restored to consciousness, he found himself elevated upon a
                     throne, and covered, in blasphemous mockery, with impious vestments of the
                     Pope, that whore of Babylon, while infernal devotees stood around; some
                     offering a mock worship, and other holding aloft censers of burning incense,
                     and idolatrously bowing toward a pyx, which they called the host, and pretended
                     to adore, while others, at the head of a confused procession, bore on their
                     shoulders images of a woman and child, which they called the Blessed Virgin,
                     while they chanted songs of praise and worship to the senseless idols.
                  "He attempted to shout in rebuke of this blasphemous idolatry, but his tongue
                     clove to the roof of his mouth. Determined to bear no part, however forced and
                     involuntary, in these diabolical rites, he heard a voice speaking in his ear,
                     'Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye
                     receive not her plagues' (Rev. 18: 4). Thus warned, he sprang from his throne,
                     and dashed through the surrounding legions toward a mountain which he saw afar
                     off and which he knew to be the mountain of the Lord. As he ran, the whole
                     infernal company, determined not to suffer him to escape, pursued him with
                     terrific yells; and, though they were not permitted to prevent his flight, yet
                     they had power to distract, terrify, and mislead him. His course lay through a
                     tangled wilderness, filled with thorns and poisonous plants, and, infested by
                     venomous reptiles and winged serpents, which filled the air and covered the
                     ground. Doleful groans and shrieks resounded on every side, and the soil seemed
                     like sulphurous, scorching lava beneath his feet. Creatures, of human form, but
                     of strange, distorted countenances, were driven hither and thither, crossing
                     his path at every step, and pursued by malignant fiends, with whips of
                     scorpions. An intolerable thirst was raging within him, and in all that dreary
                     region no cooling water might be found; but ever and anon a malignant demon at his side
                     tempted him to drink of a cup which was filled with the wine of abominations
                     and the blood of martyrs (Rev. 17: 6). Long and tedious was the flight, and
                     fierce and unrelenting the pursuit. At length, from the opening ground fierce
                     blasts of mingled fire and smoke belched forth, blinding his eyes and
                     suffocating his breath; and he felt himself lifted and borne aloft amid rolling
                     and sulphurous clouds, from which dim lightnings flashed forth, to show the
                     interminable horrors of the scene. He felt that this was the hour of the Prince
                     of the Power of the Air, and that he himself was now roaming through the
                     regions of despair, from which he saw no way of escape. Soon he felt himself
                     cast into a deep labyrinth of perplexed and devious paths, where, at great
                     distances, in each he could see a dazzling light, while around him was utter
                     darkness. Yet, as he attempted to follow the light, it fled before him, and
                     other lights in other paths tempted him to new pursuits, each flying and
                     deluding him with fruitless toil.
                  "Suddenly he felt himself immerged in a lake of slimy water, offensive and
                     revolting. He could feel no bottom with his feet; yet he was borne up in it. He
                     attempted to struggle through it, but monsters beneath held his limbs with firm
                     grasp. A brooding darkness overspread him, and he felt that the power of death
                     was upon him. Long was the time, yet not measured by days or weeks; for in that
                     dreary region there is no sun, that there should be days, and no blessed
                     Sabbath, that there should be weeks.
                  "At length, ere he was aware, he found himself upon a strange and desolate
                     shore. Ripe clusters of golden fruits hung pendent from over-spreading scathed
                     and scraggy branches, and lay scattered upon the flinty sand. Yet when he
                     gathered and tasted, he found only ashes in his mouth; they were the fruits of
                     the land of Sodom and Gomorrah. Beyond these were steep and flinty mountains,
                     where were the ruins of the dwellings of the Edomites, whose bones still lay
                     bleaching in the sun; yet no living beast, or bird, or creeping thing, passed
                     over it—all was utter desolation. Long and dreary was his journeying among
                     these barren mountains, and amid these valleys of dry bones. He felt that he
                     himself was but a walking skeleton, and that the dry bones, the fleshless jaws
                     and eyeless skulls, were his companions; yet, when he would converse with them,
                     they answered him but with uncouth sounds and unmeaning words,—for they were
                     people of a strange language.
                  "Then he fell into a deep sleep; and when he awaked the power of evil
                     enchantments had passed away, and he found himself, how conveyed he knew not,
                     lying upon the bed in his chamber, in the house of his hospitable friend, the
                     Rev. Mr. Parris, weak and emaciated, but surrounded by the familiar faces of
                     anxious friends.
                  "It shows the wonderful and inconceivable power which evil spirits are
                     sometimes permitted to exercise, that these guardian friends including the Rev.
                     Mr. Parris himself, were all unaware of the perils, and wanderings, and fiery
                     trials, to which their poor friend had been exposed, and from which he had come
                     off victorious, though sorely wounded and weakened; but believed him to have
                     been for many weeks under their care, in the delirium of a fever. His form was
                     doubtless simulated by the Father of Lies, while he himself was thus subjected
                     to the infernal power.
                  "The end of this series of horrible events was now approaching ing. Mr. Raven had been for several weeks
                     convalescent, and the summer was far advanced, with the approaching end of the
                     twenty months which was the limit of the wretched lady's bond, which she could
                     only have extended by betraying new victims to Satan's power, and which she had
                     been prevented from doing by the providential interference of Mr. Raven. It
                     might therefore be expected that the diabolical gentleman would soon claim his
                     own; and so it fell out.
                  It was a sultry day in August, when the lady, who had all the summer been
                     gloomy and reserved, ordered the coach for a distant ride. She was doubtless
                     aware of the impossibility of escaping her impending fate, and her pride
                     dictated that the scene of her humiliation and woe should be remote, from the
                     scenes of former triumph and enjoyment. As the carriage was descending a hill
                     in the north part of the town, a thick mass of clouds rolled over the sky,
                     darkening the sun, and involving all nature in awful gloom. The howling winds
                     were let loose, and the forests rocked beneath their terrible rage. Sheeted
                     lightnings filled the murky vault of heaven with awful brightness, subsiding
                     anon into ten-fold gloom. The thunder was heard, now remote and now nearer,
                     like chariot-wheels of divine wrath. A fierce torrent of driving rain poured
                     from the windows of heaven; the beasts of the field and the birds of the air
                     fled for covert from the tempest.
                  "In the midst of this awful scene, when all nature seemed about to dissolve in
                     ruin, there was a crash, as if all the artillery of heaven and hell had burst
                     in simultaneous outroar. Looking towards the north, the villagers beheld,
                     coming with frightful speed, the terrified horses, dragging the pole and a
                     portion of the carriage in which the ill-fated lady had rode forth. Hastening
                     in the direction of the hill,—for now the storm had passed away,—they beheld an
                     awful sight. The coachman was thrown beside the way, sorely bruised, and
                     bewailing his condition. A little beyond, the blackened corse of the lady was
                     seen. The fires of heaven or of hell had blasted her form, and in one hour her
                     great riches were come to naught (Rev. 18: 17). 'And they arose and took up her
                     body, and carried it forth to her own house; and great fear fell upon the
                     church, and upon as many as heard these things' (Acts 5: 11). And the matter
                     was improved to great edification by the preaching of the Rev. Mr. Parris,
                     aided by the Rev. Mr. Raven, whose experience in the affair had been so
                     wonderful. But many Sadducees mocked and reviled thereat, for which they
                     afterward suffered grievous punishments; and some, being convicted of
                     witchcraft, were justly condemned. And to God be all the praise. Amen."
                  "This being the end of the story, according to the manuscript, Cousin Helen
                     will have to supply her part from other sources."
                  (Helen.) "The closing part of the story, as given by Cousin
                     Hezekiah, speaks of the Sadducees who derided the account. Those who
                     disbelieved in witchcraft at that time were called Sadducees, by
                     the Mathers and other believers, in reference to the Sadducees, spoken of in
                     the New Testament, who believed neither in the resurrection, nor angels, nor
                     spirits.
                  "The manuscript from which the story is taken is accompanied with a written
                     envelope of a somewhat later date, from which it is ascertained that the Rev.
                     Mr. Raven was considered to have partly deranged his mind by too close
                     attention to the mysterious subjects of which he treats; and, though an
                     ordained minister, and considered a fine writer and earnest nest speaker, he was never intrusted with the
                     care of a parish, but finally fell into obscurity.
                  "Those who attempted to account for his discoveries and statements in a common
                     way, suppose that the conversation between the lady of the mansion and the
                     diabolical gentleman referred only to worldly business; and that the diabolical
                     gentleman was not really an infernal being, but only an attorney intrusted with
                     the management of some bonds, or other legal papers.
                  "The lady's extraordinary calisthenic exercises were probably exaggerated by
                     Mr. Raven's excited imagination, aided by his imperfect vision through the
                     crack of a door, or possibly a keyhole; and the extraordinary noises and
                     screams, heard on that and other occasions by himself only, were probably
                     disturbances in his own brain. The story of Dick Furlong and Harry Wilder,
                     concerning the demon porters and their load, was received with some grains of
                     allowance, even at the time, on account of their known propensity to a certain
                     license in narrative called 'drawing the long bow.'
                  "Concerning the extraordinary meeting of witches and devils, it is stated that
                     a few people were quietly engaged in the process of making maple-sugar in a
                     grove, when Mr. Raven suddenly burst among them in the manner described. The
                     giant sentinels might have been trees seen imperfectly in the darkness. The
                     shapeless and silent demons were stumps and bushes; the sulphurous ovens and
                     seething caldrons were the sap-kettles and fires beneath them; the altar, with
                     its infernal furniture, was a rude table with a few dishes; the extended
                     dragon, with upraised snaky heads and claws, was the upturned roots and body of
                     an overblown tree; and the book, with brazen claps, Indian addition of the
                     imagination.
                  "When Mr. Raven stumbled and fell, as he described, he was recognized, and
                     borne senseless to the house of his protector, nearly two miles, where he lay
                     for many weeks in a delirious fever, the consequence of his exposure and fall,
                     acting upon a frame already weakened and deranged by strong nervous
                     excitement.
                  "The lady's fate was much as he described it, for she was either struck by the
                     lightning, or thrown from the carriage and killed from the fright of the horses
                     by the flash; but the coincidence of the twenty months is subject to the
                     suspicion of all prophecy which is recorded on after its fulfilment. At any
                     rate, the grounds for supposing the lady a witch are much narrowed by a close
                     review of all the circumstances; and the most reliable fact of the whole story
                     is that Azariah and Jane grew up, loved each other, were married, and inherited
                     the old mansion many years, and in the lapse of time became the
                     great-grandparents of Cousin Hezekiah and many other Hobarts."
               
               
                  Mrs. Simperkins, being almost the only juvenile who had not contributed to the
                     round of stories, was next called upon; and, being suitably urged, and her
                     diffidence suitably overcome, and especially being prompted by an encouraging
                     word from the divinity student, commenced her relation. She proceeded to vex
                     our ears with her old story of how, when a resident of London, in her youthful
                     days (about ten years ago), she became the victim of misplaced confidence in a
                     certain somewhat unscrupulous though exceeding high-bred COUNT FLIPPERTON, who
                     adroitly obtained possession of property belonging to her employer, and left in
                     her care, and also of a very valuable bracelet belonging to herself. We have
                     scruples about appropriating the story, which is still her chief capital in
                        the line of anecdote, lest we
                     also should share the odium which Count Flipperton's conduct so justly merits;
                     but, if her consent can be obtained, the story will be given in the
                     appendix.
                  Meantime it may promote the ends of justice to give her description of the
                     stolen bracelet. 'Hit was ha werry waluable hunique," being made of gold and
                     diamonds, with a central brilliant, or star, of a single diamond, with rays of
                     different costly gems, pointed with diamonds.*
                  
                  
                     *Any reader who may obtain information of a
                        jewel of this description, or of Count Flipperton, may communicate with the
                        author through the publishers, or by a line directed to J. B., care of
                        Alexander Arbor, Esq., Wolfsden. And if this should meet the eyes of Count
                        Flipperton, he is requested to return the property, as above, and no
                        questions will be asked.
                  
                  While Mrs. Simperkins was going on with her story, the girls, who had heard it
                     half a dozen times before, were preparing for departure; and Ann having
                     whispered to Ike and Alek, they and Josiah Brown had silently withdrawn to
                     prepare the sleighs, and soon all were jingling merrily at the door. The
                     company were soon cloaked and hooded, all but Amy and the adjutant, both of
                     whom had been asleep an hour, and were now snugly stowed away;—the adjutant to
                     occupy the space between Billy and Tommy in their bed, and Amy to nestle by the
                     side of Fanny. Josiah Brown evidently did not think the departure a very sad
                     one, perhaps because he had secured the privilege of taking Ann to her home in
                     his sleigh. In fact, nobody seemed sad;—it was a merry night, though the last
                     of the year. Merrily pranced the horses through the snow. Merrily jingled the
                     bells. Merrily laughed the light-hearted group. Merrily twinkled the stars,
                     looking out, from their bright heaven above, upon the bright earth below.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               SLEEP rests upon the peaceful dwelling of the deacon's family, and all the house
                  is still, save the measured and stately ticking or the ancient clock, which counts
                  of in solemn numbering the last steps of the departing year. The cricket, too,
                  trills forth its claim to a place in the list of living things. The deserted
                  kitchen still glows with hospitable warmth and soft light, shed from the solid
                  mass of living coals, into which the huge logs have subsided. Beneath the table
                  lies the shaggy Lion, dreaming of sports and battles past, and often moving his
                  feet in imaginary chase. Near his side, in long-tried companionship, purrs the
                  confiding cat. Peace and sleep rest upon all the house.
               In their snug bed, with their fair foreheads just discernible above the folded
                  blankets, little Amy nestles in the arms of Fanny, as the bud nestles by the side
                  of the opening rose. Lovely incarnations of beauty and goodness, thus ever in the
                  protecting embrace of love and happiness may ye grow and ripen to your destined
                  immortality! Tommy, and Billy, and the adjutant, are sleeping recklessly and
                  determinedly, as if each were resolved to outdo the other. Each has a half-defiant
                  brow, and a fist half closed; and each, by his earnest breathing, seems half
                  provoked to burst into a snore.
               
               Alek had invited the schoolmaster to share his bed. So many visitors require some
                  doubling, and the cold night also favors it. The schoolmaster composed himself
                  tranquilly, but Alek's pillow was not so easy. Thoughts which serve no purpose of
                  thinking, broken, confused, tumultuous, undefined yet intense, swift yet coming to
                  no conclusion, excited and harassed his brain. In vain he invoked his firm will,
                  and commanded his distracting thoughts to peace. His very efforts at self-command
                  awakened to more activity the busy machinery of the brain. The excited current of
                  his blood rushed through all the channels of thought, and drove in rapid
                  evolutions the wheels of the mind. He commanded his eyelids to close, and they
                  obeyed; yet he was cheated of his will, for the eyeballs swelled and threw off
                  their accustomed covering.
               If he were alone, he would arise and escape from his confinement. If he could now,
                  in the bright moonlight, plunge through the snow into the forest, with Lion for
                  his company, how welcome would be the effort to his excited mood! If he could
                  change the conflict within to a war with the elements, or with the bears and
                  wolves without, there would be relief in that. Bat he could not escape, for he
                  would not disturb his bedfellow, or allow his inquietude to be suspected. And so
                  he lay in resolute silence.
               He fixed his eyes upon the windows, where the curdling frost had marked its
                  fantastic tracery, now glittering in the silver light of the moon. In fancy he saw
                  there the allegorical panorama of his life. He gave fancy the rein, and followed
                  her visionary flight. She guided him through dense forests, bright with dazzling
                  but uncertain light. His path led along a precipitous and dangerous way, into
                  unknown scenes. A city rose around him. Magnificent and busy streets crossed each
                  other in endless confusion. Rivers, parks, villages, and splendid mansions, filled
                  the back-ground. An ocean, speckled with islands and adorned with tall-masted
                  ships, stretched beyond. On the hither side, near his primitive forest, was a
                  falling castle. It recalled to his mind his own story, and Margaret's veiled
                  advice in its conclusion, and he mentally repeated it. "I will explore, and only
                  fix my habitation when I have skill to choose wisely, and can be well assured of
                  my title."
               How still and cold shines the moon upon the glittering tracery of the frosty
                  windows! How slow and solemn the distant ticking clock measures off the steps of
                  the departing year! Peace and sleep rest not on all, even in the deacon's quiet
                  dwelling.
               In the parlor chamber, devoted through successive generations to ostentatious
                  neatness and elegance, where a carpet woven of variegated list and yarn covers all
                  the centre of the floor, and approaches to the walls,—where the painted, chairs,
                  and shining chest of drawers, and gilded looking-glass, reflect the brightness,
                  but show not the rust, of their fifty years,—there, in the high-post bed,
                  surrounded by snow-white curtains, rest Hezekiah and Harry. To them, who unite the
                  claims of scholarship and strangerhood, is this dainty chamber appropriated; and
                  very well do they seem to enjoy it. Hezekiah has already subsided into a calm and
                  happy slumber. The course of his true love runs smooth. It needs not
                  watching,—well and peacefully may he sleep.
               But Harry seems not care for sleep. He can dream without the aid of sleep, and
                  dreaming is now his delight. He dreams that he is in the house where angels dwell.
                     The brightness of one is reflected
                  upon the others, and all are angels. He feels it reflected upon himself, and he
                  partakes of the angelhood. How easy in such society to become angelic! He will
                  henceforth discard the grossness and folly of earthly life, and commence now, in
                  the brightness of his youth, a life of transcendental aspirations and
                  enjoyments.
               His eyes are fixed on the window where the bright moon silvers the frosty tracery.
                  How fantastic, and yet how regular and beautiful, are the outlines sculptured
                  there! Castles and cathedrals with pointed turrets, churches with tall spires,
                  landscapes stretching in interminable perspective, oceans with opposing navies,
                  islands with enchanting groves,—groves where love and innocence might wander hand
                  in hand, where a bower might be built in which an angel might reside, where
                  domestic bliss might give new interest to the loveliness of the scenery.
               Only with restrained and guarded thoughts let us approach the chamber where sleep
                  the beloved of those whom we now leave and commend to rest. Side by side, in quiet
                  innocence, Helen and Margaret repose. Helen lies in profound sleep. Gently and
                  scarce perceptibly rises and falls the drapery of her pure and peaceful breast.
                  Gently, with even and tranquil beat, her pulse measures off the moments of her
                  well-employed and happy life. The course of her true life and true love run
                  smooth. Peaceful and sweet be her sleep!
               But why does that other heart beat less tranquilly? And why, as if compelling
                  sleep to her eyes, does she compress their fringed lids till tears distil upon her
                  pillow? She lies in seeming quiet; yet her mind rests not. Conflicting emotions
                  disturb her peace. She is fighting the battle of life. She calls up every worthy
                  resolve, and determines to conquer herself. Could she arise and go forth, that her
                  body might share the struggle of her thoughts, it would be a relief; but she is
                  constrained to stillness and silence, for her emotion must not suspected. She
                  opens her eyes and gazes upon the frosty window. Its figured outlines seem to
                  represent the path of life. Here mountains rise in forbidding grandeur, and oppose
                  insurmountable barriers; there yawning precipices wait for unwary feet; a cold,
                  stern, and rough acclivity stretches between into the interminable and unknown
                  distance,—interminable and unknown, perhaps solitary and sad. Yet it is the path
                  where pride and duty and prudence point; and it is the path she will pursue. Sleep
                  and peace rest not upon all, even in this tranquil home.
               Yet the night wanes on; the stately clock measures off, in solemn numberings, the
                  last steps of the departing year. Soon the hammer strikes its measured strokes
                  upon the clear, ringing bell. 
                     
                        Departed year, adieu! the last,
                        Last sand that measured thy career
                        Is gone; the records of the past
                        Alone are thine, departed year!
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               SLOWLY moves the mighty panorama across the silent sky. The constellations which
                  gem the brow of night decline in the west, for a dawning glory glimmers in -the
                  east, and the morning star heralds the day. From his high perch Chanticleer sends
                  forth his morning summons. Soon from the chimney-top ascends a wreathed column to
                  the sky, and from the kitchen windows the red light of the blazing fire within
                  throws 'its glare over the snowy landscape. - The long row' of patient cattle,
                  lying in their stalls, lazily uprise and stretch their strong limbs, as they hear
                  the approaching feet, and the opening of doors by the hand that feeds them. The
                  horses whinny their welcome, and expect their reward. Down from their perches fly
                  the feathered flock. All claim their share from the abundant granary, and have
                  their claim allowed. Around the cheerful fires come, from their deserted beds by
                  ones, by twos, and by threes, the sleepers of the preceding night; the rising sun
                  finds no sluggard there. It was the mother's maxim that the Sabbath's, true rest
                  is not a self-indulgent sluggishness, but a permitted refreshment to the body,
                  that the mind may arise to its higher exercises of thought and devotion, to favor
                  which domestic cares and duties must be promptly and seasonably discharged, that
                  all may share in Sabbath benefits to their full extent.
               Bright and cheerful were the morning faces of the family circle, and kind and true
                  the greetings of the happy new year. If there were troubled and anxious hearts
                  beneath any of those smiling and cordial countenances, their secret burthens were
                  unknown to others, for every face seemed radiant with happy content. Noble and
                  generous hearts diffuse their own cheerfulness, but suppress and conceal their
                  sorrows and fears.
               Harry had determined upon a line of conduct at once generous, sentimental, and
                  discreet. He will not betray, even in thought, the kind hospitality he enjoys; but
                  will substitute friendship, warm and earnest, but unaspiring, for love. His heart,
                  enlarged and filled with tender enthusiasm, reflects its light on every object,
                  and sees beauty, goodness, and worth, in every face. Even in Mrs. Simperkins'
                  self-complacent smirks and affectations he sees only an amiable desire to please,
                  where the motive should excuse the mistakes. Towards Alek his friendship
                  particularly expands, partly because he sees and feels his worth, partly in
                  atonement for the involuntary injury which he feels half conscious of having
                  inflicted, and partly because in loving Margaret, as he now represented to
                  himself, with a pure platonic love, he must needs love those most nearly allied to
                  her. Thus, though agitated by a deep emotion, which might otherwise have
                  manifested itself to observant eyes, he managed to preserve the balance of his
                  mind and the propriety of his conduct, and confirm the good impressions he has
                  already made. Alek was the first and the most earnest to praise the noble
                  endowments of the young visitor, whom he had so little reason to thank for coming;
                  but Alek had already determined to
                  yield to his adverse fate with the good grace which his manly pride demanded. His
                  heart was sore, but that was good reason why he should compel it to rest. His
                  self-appreciating thought suggested the desire to gain for himself the cultivation
                  which gave Harry such advantages. His former good opinion of his own merits was
                  very much unsettled; but his confidence in what he might become was
                  strong. Appreciating and admiring his successful rival he was very ready to
                  receive and reciprocate his friendship; so that, actuated by different motives,
                  and neither understanding the other, they became fast friends.
               Poor Margaret seemed the chief probable sufferer by this new interchange of
                  affinities. The capricious power, which binds and loosens the fetters of the soul
                  at his will, had severed the early and long-accustomed ties which bound one manly
                  heart to do her homage, while the one who could have repaid the desertion with far
                  more welcome devotion was withheld, by honorable respect for the other's superior
                  claims, from making advances. But she had schooled her mind to the strict
                  discipline of maidenly reserve, and if she threw a veil over her deeper emotions,
                  we have no right to remove it.
               The schoolmaster held conversation with Harry, and was pleased with his diversity
                  of knowledge, propriety of sentiment, and elegance of expression; for Harry knew
                  how to acquit himself creditably when in contact with well-informed minds, as he
                  know how to shine among the volatile and frivolous. To the latter society he had
                  been too much addicted; but now his feelings, and the current of his mind, ran in
                  more serious and reflective mood, and added a thoughtful dignity to his manner and
                  conversation.
               Mrs. Simperkins was all respect, reverence, and obsequiousness ness, towards the
                  "divinity student," whose good looks and polite behavior, in preferring her
                  conversation, and talking Latin and Greek to her, rather than to others, had so
                  perfectly proved his piety and discrimination. Uncle Lemuel and Aunt Nabby were
                  well pleased with his popularity, and glad that they had brought so acceptable an
                  addition to their society, though they hardly knew how to reply to Mrs.
                  Simperkins' earnest assurances of his wonderful piety and spiritual gifts. The
                  younger fry, with whom, and Alek, he had already visited the barn, and there
                  delighted them with some practical jokes and gymnastic feats, had voted him a
                  jolly fellow, and earnestly invited him to stay all winter, with glowing promises
                  of infinite fun in sliding down hill and skating upon the ice; so that Harry was
                  now, as usual, on the high tide of popular favor.
               Breakfast ended, family worship was performed, as usual. The members of the
                  family, including visitors, read the Scriptures, which the deacon occasionally
                  explained. In prayer, the deacon knelt with such members of his family, and such
                  visitors, as professed religion; while others were expected to stand in reverent
                  silence. Such is the custom in Wolfsden, and all that region; so that to kneel in
                  prayer-time is equivalent to a profession of religion. Harry, whose religious
                  training had been Episcopalian, with whom all, whether saints or sinners, kneel
                  and respond, was quite unaware of this distinction, and therefore knelt with the
                  deacon; and, at the close of his prayer, innocently responded amen.
                  He intended only good manners, but was at once set down by all the family as a
                  professor of religion, and therefore untitled to be treated with more gravity than
                  a mere worldling. Billy and Tommy, remembering his funny feats in the barn, and
                  that, too Sabbath morning, thought it a
                  new sort of religion; and as it came enforced by so good authority, and was much
                  more in conformity with their sentiments than the Sabbath strictness which they
                  had been compelled to keep, they concluded to recommend the change to their
                  father, as a manifest improvement.
               The hymn for the occasion was a new one, written by the schoolmaster at Fanny's
                  request. All united in singing; but Harry's well-cultivated voice, naturally
                  melodious and strong, though beautifully blending with the others, elevated its
                  music beyond its usual character. Fanny was delighted with the success of her
                  hymn; and Alek, who took some small interest in the "Philharmonic band," engaged
                  Harry's assistance in the choir for the day.
               There was quite a turn-out of teams from the deacon's, that day; but Alek was not
                  careful, as at other times when Margaret had been one of the company, to have all
                  in readiness so early as to anticipate the major's arrival. The major's family
                  sleigh came along while Alek was still busy in harnessing the colts, so that
                  Margaret went with her father and mother. Mrs. Simperkins, who had a motive to
                  secure a proper reception of the divinity student at church, and thereby magnify
                  her own importance, proposed to go in the major's sleigh; to which none objected.
                  Once on the way, she expatiated to the major on the arrival of the divinity
                  student, whose piety, and learning, and Orthodox standing, she vouched for, and
                  expressed a decided opinion that Mr. Boreman should be prepared for so unusual a
                  hearer. Major Murray inclined to the opinion that the parson should be prepared
                  for so distinguished an arrival, and therefore urged his horse to unwonted speed.
                  Dobbin demurred, but the major insisted, and they arrived fully five minutes
                  before Alek's party came in sight.
               Events were auspicious. They met the parson in the porch, and explained the
                  affair. The group waited in the porch till the deacon's family arrived. Harry was
                  then formally introduced, by Mrs. Simperkins, to Major Murray, and him to the
                  minister, and by the minister to Mrs. Boreman, the minister's wife, and by her to
                  the fair and slender-waisted Lucinda, the minister's daughter. The minister
                  invited the "divinity student" sit with him, and assist in the exercises. He was
                  astonished, and concluded at once that the essence of all the politeness in the
                  world, as well as every other excellence, was concentrated in Wolfsden. But he
                  declined the parson's invitation, on the ground that he had already engaged to
                  sing with the choir. The parson's wife hoped he would make them an early visit,
                  and the fair Lucinda looked a kind welcome; and Harry, always complying, promised
                  to come. Uncle Lemuel and Aunt Nabby were a little surprised at this scene; but
                  they were acquainted with Mrs. Simperkins' officiousness, and her presence
                  explained it.
               The person had woven, his dissertation upon the lost tribes into a long forenoon
                  and afternoon sermon, for the new year. All the divine attributes were illustrated
                  in a signal manner by his theory of their dispersion from their ancient
                  inheritance on account of their transgressions; their banishment to the wild and
                  benighted region of the western world; their long seclusion of three, thousand
                  years from the benefits of civilization; their judicial blindness and heathenism
                  in consequence of their apostasy; their subjugation and extirpation; all which
                  prove the justice and fearful vengeance of God descending on original offenders, and, through
                  them, to their latest posterity.
               In illustration and proof of the principle chiefly vindicated in this view, he
                  cited the case of the children of Canaan, doomed to everlasting servitude for the
                  transgression of Ham; assuming the Africans to be the Canaanites, and the slavery
                  of the present age their appointed punishment. To this latter point he gave
                  particular distinction and emphasis, considering it providential that he had put
                  it into his sermon; for Mrs. Simperkins, in her hurried account of the divinity
                  student, had mentioned his being the son of a southern planter, and he was willing
                  that it should be understood in such big quarters that here in Wolfsden the
                  scriptural supports and warrants of slavery were properly taught. Whatever may be
                  thought of the philosophy and philanthropy of his sermon, its patriotism and
                  conservatism were unquestionable.
               There was but a short recess between sermons. The wind without was keen; but fuel,
                  like everything else, was plenty in Wolfsden, and the meeting-house was warm
                  within; and therefore many of the congregation, who came from a distance, remained
                  and digested the sermon within the sacred walls. Not alone with spiritual food did
                  they improve the hour. From many a capacious pocket came forth, in various
                  packages, such samples of substantial fare as serious people may in good
                  conscience enjoy. The more refined and fastidious were more reserved and private
                  in their repast. The young women, and girls especially, munched their cake and
                  cheese behind veils and kerchiefs, or with their faces turned devoutly to the
                  wall, as though mindful of the proverb, "Bread eaten in secret is pleasant." Not
                  so the children, who, each with a rosy-cheeked apple in one fist, and a huge
                  doughnut, or turnover, in the other, ran about to the neighboring pews, as
                  determined to investigate every other bill of fare before deciding upon the
                  sufficiency of their own.
               Meantime, Harry went to pay his dutiful respects to his grand-uncle, the captain.
                  Alek accompanied him, and so did Uncle Lemuel and Aunt Nabby. The captain brought
                  in the schoolmaster, in whom he fond, a former acquaintance. He also recognized
                  and invited Hezekiah and Helen, so that a large circle assembled in his pleasant
                  parlor. The old captain is genial—a genial old gentleman of the old school. To
                  maintain this position is now his sole business, and he does it very well. In his
                  well-provided and comfortable parlor the severe frosts of winter are tempered by
                  the blaze and bright coals of the glowing hearth, and the frosts of age he tempers
                  with timely supplies of toast and toddy; "And thus," says he, "I keep my outer and
                  inner man in trim." By his outer man he means his skin, and by his inner man his
                  stomach; and these, as he evidently conceives, make up his whole being. He is a
                  regular attendant at Parson Boreman's meeting, and subscribes ten dollars a year
                  to support the minister, and one dollar to convert the heathen. The old gentleman
                  understands very well that a due regard for religion is essential to the
                  perfection of gentlemanly character, and therefore he gives it his patronage.
               The captain seldom discusses the doctrines taught from the pulpit; indeed, he
                  generally nods in his pew, as one who is willing to trust his minister that he
                  will go right without watching. But to-day he had gathered up some of the parson's
                  remarks about the lost tribes, and rather dissented from that part of the sermon
                  which identified them with the Indians. He had seen Jews and Indians enough in his
                  day, and they were no more alike than a
                  grenadier and a powder-monkey. The Jews wear long beards, and the Indians have no
                  beards at all. The Jews deal in old clothes, and let money on pawn (here Harry
                  winced a little); but the Indians have neither clothes to sell nor money to let.
                  The Jews eat no pork; but the Indians eat hog, dog, and whatever else they can
                  catch or steal. He, however, agreed with the parson that it was a good thing in
                  God and our forefathers to kill them off, and put the country to a Christian use;
                  and, if they were in reality the lost tribes, he thought it a pity the other two
                  had not been lost with them.
               Harry, who generally fell in with the prevailing tone of conversation, followed
                  his uncle's lead in dissenting from the parson's expositions. He said that the
                  offence which Ham gave to his drunken father, and the curse which the old toper
                  gave to his grandchild in consequence, was rather a vague and unsatisfactory
                  foundation for so extensive a superstructure of theory. If the curse had any
                  effect on succeeding generations, it seems to have included the posterity of Shem
                  and Japhet, as well as the dark descendants of Ham; for there certainly have been
                  many more white slaves since that time than black ones; black slavery being of
                  recent institution, while white slavery has prevailed extensively through all the
                  nations of antiquity, and even at the present day, said he, there is a pretty free
                  infusion of white blood among our slaves, often to such extent that it would
                  puzzle Ham to pick out his posterity on some plantations.
               The old captain presented a theory in explanation, by supposing that Canaan, when
                  he heard his grandfather's curse, cursed the old man and all his boys back again;
                  which would account not only for the confusion of servile consequences following
                  in after ages, but also for the habits of cursing which old men and boys are apt
                  to fall into, where people are in the habit of getting drank. Not, said he, that
                  he would cast any disparaging reflections upon the venerable patriarch, whom he
                  felt under particular obligation to reverence; and who, being a gentleman of the
                  old school, might without censure be sometimes a little over-indulgent in wine,
                  for which he had also an excuse of peculiar force, for he had certainly been
                  over-dosed with water beyond any other mortal.
               Hezekiah expressed his dissent from any defence of the extirpation of the Indians
                  which might be derived from Scripture, as a perversion of the principles of the
                  Good Book, of which the preceptive parts enjoin justice and mercy, and forbid
                  cruelty and bloodshed, although the historical parts abound with examples of the
                  latter, by no means recorded for imitation. He thought that our Pilgrim Fathers,
                  though endowed with noble and manly virtues, were also fallible, like men of the
                  present day; swayed by similar motives, and subject to similar self-delusions;
                  often pursuing selfish ends, regardless of right, and afterward soothing their
                  consciences by supposed warrant from Scripture.
               The schoolmaster observed that the fate of the aboriginal inhabitants of this
                  country must always present a gloomy page of history to the philanthropist; and,
                  though the political economist might find ample equivalent in the vast increase of
                  population and happiness resulting from their displacement, the Christian would
                  still wish, with the apostolic Eliot, that the pilgrims "had converted some,
                  before they killed so many." The character of the Indians has been drawn in too
                  dark colors, in order to palliate the wrongs done them. The vices of ignorance and
                  poverty must always be expected among the uncivilized; but, in making our estimate, we should take into account their
                  capabilities, which, in such cases, should be judged of by favorable specimens.
                  The history of Logan, of Pocahontas, of Tecumseh, of Red Jacket, and Osceola,
                  prove the capability of the Indian race for whatever virtues have found praise
                  among men; and in looking at their fate, and that of many like them, we must
                  confess that the present good which we enjoy has grown out of much evil done to
                  others. It will not do to shield ourselves from the reproach of wrong by pleading
                  that the plans of Providence are thereby wrought out. The Indian race would
                  undoubtedly have been extinguished or absorbed in the march, of civilization, even
                  if justice and kindness had kept pace with it. Perhaps they did not suffer more in
                  the process of extirpation than other nations who have died by pestilence, famine,
                  or inundations. The chief thing to be regretted, in all human suffering proceeding
                  from human violence, is that right has been violated, and the moral
                  sense of mankind corrupted, especially where the sanction of religion is sought
                  and pressed into the defence of the act.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               WE will do the parson a good turn by exciting public interest in his researches
                  concerning the lost tribes, without so far satisfying curiosity as to spoil the
                  sale of his dissertation. Therefore we omit the afternoon continuation of the
                  subject; but must not omit to notify the reader of a meeting, this evening, of the
                  Philharmonic Band, in Squire Noseby's hall. With what eager delight is the hour
                  anticipated by the happy-hearted youths and maidens of Wolfsden, who, from far and
                  near, gather in these weekly Sunday evening musical meetings, to do their part,
                  either as zealous performers or admiring listeners. How full of music are their
                  souls! With what alacrity they come from miles around, in sleighs so liberally
                  loaded, through roads so recently broken, and still piled with many a half-subdued
                  drift, the seat of many a funny disaster!
               From far and near, from many a sequestered dwelling, in valley or on hill-side,
                  from the wide circumference of happy homes, to the common centre of Noseby's hall,
                  come the rustic youth, overflowing with energy and good-nature; prompt with
                  politeness, uncultivated, yet true, because heart-inspired; officious with
                  gallantry, awkward, yet welcome and well-appreciated. They come convoying many a
                  fair freight of country maidens, whose
                  shining cheeks glow in the healthy exercise with universal red, while their bright
                  eyes sparkle with various hues.
               To all these, however remote from fashion their abode, nature, ever the
                  accomplished patron of the sex, has imparted the charms, the wiles, the graces,
                  the all-prevailing power, which subdues generous and stout hearts, and vindicates
                  the universal empire of love.
               No neglected maiden pines at home for lack of a brother, or cousin, or lover, to
                  escort her thither. A circuit of a dozen miles is a slight feat for the ambitious
                  youth, whose partial pride exults in the fleetness of his steed, and the charms of
                  his sweetheart. The heart-flowing sounds of merry voices, and glad, laughing
                  shouts, mingle with the joy-jingling bells, and fling upon the echoing air a
                  melody more cheering than the liveliest strains of even the Philharmonic Band.
               Brief be our record of the brilliant company assembled. The fair Lucinda, of the
                  many curls and slender waist, was there by long prescription, the undisputed and
                  unenvied belle of Wolfsden. Great was the sum of her attainments. She had explored
                  the paths of philosophy, scanned the secrets of science, revelled in the regions
                  of romance, and plumed the pinions of poetry. She had often kept the village
                  school, and has been talked of as preceptress of an academy. Her presence was an
                  honor and ornament to every assembly, and her fame belongs to Wolfsden.
               Yet impartial fate scatters her favors with equal hand, and those to whom their
                  own sex willingly award the palm of superior attractions seldom find their charms
                  so effectually appreciated in the market of matrimony, as others, whom their fair
                  sisters often spitefully disparage. So the fair Lucinda, sweet as the last rose of
                  summer, still fluttered on the ancestral bush, while a hundred newer and humbler
                  flowers flaunted in bridal bouquets.
               Helen Arbor came. So seldom was her appearance where amusement is the chief
                  attraction, that her presence was always noticed. It was noticed now more than
                  ever; for a stranger accompanied her, one who evidently stood in some intimate
                  relation to her. He was a dignified and remarkably good-looking gentleman.
                  Curiosity was excited, for Helen had never before been seen so squired. What could
                  it mean? Fortunately the Bowlers were present. Whispers were circulated, and the
                  cat, so long confined in the traditionary bag, escaped once more, and roamed at
                  will in the wonder-loving world. It was Helen's choice that the secret should come
                  out all at once, rather than by the usual process of leakage; for, when everything
                  is once known, gossip dies of a surfeit, and the world ceases to wonder.
               Harry was there, of course. He was specially invited by the leader and chief
                  singers of the choir; and, therefore, he came to please his new friends,—otherwise
                  he would have come to please himself, for it is Harry's "genius" always to please
                  somebody.
               Margaret was there. If she were not, everybody would have regretted her absence.
                  Margaret makes no pretensions on the score of music,—indeed, she never makes
                  pretensions of any sort; there is no need; the diamond will sparkle, however
                  unostentatiously it is placed. She commonly sits near the foot of the choir, with
                  Hannah Bowler; but the chorister knows where the music comes from, and upon whom
                  he may rely.
               
               Margaret moved among the animated circle with a mild and retiring dignity, gentle
                  and unassuming, but yet not self-forgetful. She felt her soul's superiority, and
                  was not unaware of her personal attractions; but her sense was equal to the task
                  of concealing her vanity, though she might not repress it. Hitherto she had
                  thought little of her superior advantages, for she had no occasion to employ
                  them,—no aim to win admiration or mortify rivalry, so that her self-conscious
                  worth rested as quietly in her thought as the conscience of a good man, giving
                  solid but unseen enjoyment. But now that the calm current of her life had met a
                  new and disturbing influence, her mind was excited to a closer self-examination,
                  and it may reasonably be supposed that, in her close scrutiny of self, the fair
                  exterior was not wholly forgotten. Yet who can explore, or, having explored, can
                  describe, much less account for, the complicated emotions, motives, and methods,
                  of the female heart?
               Individuals blend in society, like tones in music, or colors in dress, sometimes
                  with pleasing harmony and sometimes with disagreeable discord. Good taste will
                  arrange each so as to produce the most pleasing effect. Margaret had the intuitive
                  perception of good taste, and therefore she usually accompanied Hannah Bowler.
                  Hannah was a little younger than Margaret, and only a little; not quite so
                  elegantly formed, or so beautiful, but nearly so; a little less maturity of mind
                  and sprightliness of wit, yet well gifted in both; a little less richness and
                  fulness and compass of voice in music, but equally true and clear in tone; and in
                  all respects adding a welcome charm to the society of her companion, and giving
                  strength to her dominion, without dividing her empire. The alliance, though not
                  concerted with that view, was mutually ally advantageous in its magnifying effect,
                  as when a brilliant barrister forms a partnership with one less eminent,
                  preserving, and perhaps increasing, his own importance, while he reflects the
                  lustre of his fame upon his humbler brother.
               The chorister knew well what voices would blend with best effect. A composition
                  for two voices was included in the order of exercises. He requested Harry and
                  Margaret to perform it. To refuse was impossible; yet how, with palpitating hearts
                  and perhaps tremulous voices, could they sing? Each was unconscious of the emotion
                  of the other, yet both were equally embarrassed. Harry had never before met an
                  emergency to which he did not feel himself equal. Yet he had often declaimed
                  before censorious judges, and wrangled with invidious rivals, and had sometimes
                  been called to render account before grave and reverend professors; or, worse
                  still, to meet a monstrous bill of irregular and disreputable expenses, with an
                  exchequer already exhausted. With strong effort he concealed his emotion; or, if
                  some few observed it, they readily imputed it to the natural diffidence of a young
                  man among strangers. A fine notion, truly! Harry Boynton embarrassed by a Wolfsden
                  audience! It was the audience alone which sustained him; otherwise, how could he
                  proceed with the thrilling emotions which the unexpected proposition excited? Yet
                  he did proceed in his best style; and, though Margaret's voice was thought to be a
                  little less full and clear than usual, yet the marked and silent admiration of the
                  audience, and the gratified expression of the chorister, showed that their
                  performance was not a failure. At the request of Colonel Bowler, they again
                  performed the duet; and this time Margaret's voice was fall and firm, so that even Harry, who expected
                  nothing less than perfection from such a source, felt his high estimate fully
                  realized.
               "That's what I call singing," whispered Ike to Alek. Alek assented, with a
                  delighted ear, but a heavy heart. It was to him sadly beautiful, like the requiem
                  of departed joys and hopes.
               The divinity student rode the topmost wave of popularity. A frank address and good
                  voice were always a passport to the confidence and esteem of the villagers of
                  Wolfsden. Cordial civilities and earnest invitations overwhelmed him. Squire
                  Chinby, from the "North Neighborhood," was introduced, and earnestly invited him
                  to visit that part of the town. The "North Meeting-house" was a sort of rival
                  religious institution, built up by the union of several scattered fragments of
                  different sects. It was four or five miles from the centre of the town, and was
                  only casually supplied with a minister, being commonly a meeting of exhortation
                  and miscellaneous exercises. Sometimes an itinerant preacher startles the echoing
                  walls with a new voice, and perhaps new notions of divinity. The walls receive and
                  echo back, with impartial assent, each varying form of doctrine. The more
                  discriminating audience receive and respond with less unanimity. Yet each new
                  preacher finds some to support and "bear testimony" to the truth of his teachings,
                  while on every occasion dissent may be seen plainly marked on many faces; for none
                  come to be convinced or to be swerved from their long-cherished faith, or from the
                  doctrines to which they are committed, but all to hear their own opinions
                  repeated, and their neighbors refuted. When a Calvinist comes, though he should
                  say nothing of election and reprobation, Mr. Clack and his wife detect him, and
                  look querulous and dissentient, but Mr. Click and his wife look pert and
                  "edified." If a Freewill Baptist hold forth, Mr. Clack and wife listen with
                  pleased eyes and ears, and nod assent to each other and their neighbors at each
                  well-put period; while Mr. Click and wife, though listening earnestly to detect
                  contradictions and unscriptualities, put on all the mask of indifference. When the
                  Methodist, in turn, finds his way there, neither Clack and wife nor Click and wife
                  find spiritual food in sermon or prayer; but Mr. Clock and wife are ecstatic with
                  illumination. They mutter audible amens in sermon and give groans of gratification
                  in prayer. Mr. Cluck, the Universalist, helped build the meeting-house, and
                  sometimes vindicates his right to be taught what he already pretends to know, and
                  invites a stray Universalist preacher; and then all the other vowels look glum at
                  what he calls the "glad news;" that is, the old vowels look glum; but there are
                  graceless young Clacks, Clicks, and Clocks, as well as Clucks, who approve of
                  Universalism out of spite, and, though they have no peculiar predilection for the
                  tedious heaven "where congregations ne'er break up, and Sabbaths never end," yet
                  they choose to have the gates thereof kept open, as an alternative retreat from
                  the fiery and unsavory opposite. Thus each is fed in turn with the food his
                  sectarian palate affects; the sectarian spirit is kept sharp, and the "union
                  meeting-house" is well filled.
               Squire Chinby is recognized as the great man of the region, which is often called
                  the "Chinby neighborhood." He is an independent farmer,—one of the selectmen,
                  keeps the Chinby school in winter, and leads the singing in the union meeting-house. He pretends to no preference
                  of sects, and sins dolorous reprobation or exulting universal salvation, in their
                  appropriate tunes, with impartial execution. All the vowels say that he is a
                  Gallio, "caring for none of these things;" yet his influence is decisive with them
                  all. Such is the advantage of a non-committalism. They each hope yet to get him on
                  their side, and therefore speak him fair.
               Chinby has a large family, all good-looking; but his two blue-eyed daughters look
                  best of all. They are the prettiest and best-dressed girls in the region. All
                  Chinby's things look well; he takes pride in having everything, including himself,
                  look well.
               Chinby pressed the invitation to the "divinity student" to come to their meeting
                  next Sunday. There was to be a celebrated minister there, a heathen missionary;
                  for so he, with malicious humor, designates the missionary to the heathen, The
                  "divinity student," however, was not much attracted by the promised treat, and
                  rather evaded the invitation, till Chinby introduced his blue-eyed daughters. Then
                  he somewhat relented; observing that he was in his friend Alek's hands, but should
                  come if possible. Alek, thus appealed to, readily promised to bring his friend;
                  and thus Parson Boreman, who elaborated his sermon for the next Sunday with
                  peculiar care, that the divinity student might know what it is to be a minister,
                  lost his labor, so far as Harry was concerned.
               Alek still held his resolve to be quiet. He determined that none should suspect
                  his trouble. His unrequited love and wounded pride already sore enough, shrunk
                  from the blistering salve of sympathy, so generally applied in such cases. So, he
                  kept secret the disorder of his heart, and wore a brave face.
               Wounded pride, though often the bitterest ingredient in the cup of disappointed
                  love, added little, however, to Alek's grief. His self-estimate was based on such
                  strong convictions of his capabilities, that he was not much humbled. He cast his
                  mind forward to overlook the intervening space which separates present gloom from
                  the possible brightness of the future; for his inquietude was that which inspires
                  resolve and prompts effort, even in desperation. In the smooth current of
                  reciprocated love his manly virtues would have been gently and surely developed,
                  but his deeper and dormant energies might not have been awakened. The deep strife
                  of his passion roused his soul to a new self-estimate, and new resolve. The day
                  was to him an epoch. It finished the soft and pleasing dream of the past, and
                  filled him with a sense of the faculties by which he must work out the untried
                  duties and unknown destinies of the future. The hopes and remembrances so dear to
                  him he would not regret nor cast away; but he determined to remain no longer in
                  their view. He repeated his resolve of quiet—the quiet of firm resolve.
               Harry was happy enough. It was his genius to be happy. The bright side of
                  everything reflects its brightness upon him. When the resources of enjoyment are
                  abundant, he revels in them; when they fail, he is none the less happy. Whatever
                  is pleasant in his possession he enjoys. The pleasant possessions of others give
                  him equal pleasure. As once a learned Bonze followed a rich and ostentatious
                  Mandarin, repeatedly thanking him for his jewels, "Friend," said the Mandarin,
                  "why thank me? I give thee none of my jewels."—"True," replied the Bonze; "but you
                  permit me the pleasure of looking on them, which is all that even yourself can enjoy." So Harry enjoys every
                  pleasant thing, regardless of possession.
               The deep fountains of his feeling were opened, and the repose of his soul's quiet
                  disturbed; yet the element of self-satisfaction still prevailed, and will still
                  prevail, whatever results may follow.
               He appeared more thoughtful, more earnest, more manly, than before, but not the
                  less bright and joyous. He thought of Margaret as the knights thought of their
                  lady-loves, invested with unapproachable grace, whom the privilege of sometimes
                  seeing and always adoring was its own ample reward; and with whatever pangs strong
                  emotion and uncertain hope pierced his heart, they still more endeared to him
                  their object, as Tony's fair cousins loved best the books which made them cry the
                  most.
               Alek and Harry were fast friends. Though so different in their experiences,
                  habits, and elements of character, their differences were such as combine in
                  mutually agreeable and profitable companionship. Harry had looked abroad, and
                  learned the knowledge and the ways of the world. Alek had looked within, and drawn
                  knowledge from the heart. Each surprised and pleased the other with novel ideas.
                  Each imparted, received, and shared with the other, in social feeling and generous
                  confidence. Yet upon one subject both were instinctively silent; and that very
                  silence suggested mutual inferences vague and erroneous in both. Each generously
                  awarded the chief interest in Margaret to the other, and each with equal pangs of
                  regret.
               Next Sunday promised a nice day for enterprise. A week's fair weather had made the
                  sleighing smooth, and Alek arranged a party to patronize the "heathen missionary."
                  Margaret was invited, but declined. The Simperkins was not invited, but strongly
                  inclined to go. Heathen missionaries are her delight. But remembrance of disasters
                  past, and fear of like catastrophes to come, deterred her. She was also piqued at
                  the neglect of the "divinity student," who had learned to whom he owed the
                  reverence for clerical dignity which had so much annoyed him. It was not from
                  delicacy of sentiment, but fear of some mad freak, by way of punishment, that she
                  did not, in some of her irresistible ways, press her claims to make one of the
                  devotional party to the North Meeting-house.
               But the pung was well filled, nevertheless, and fleetly the spirited colts skimmed
                  the road. But, swift as they went, Harry's fame had preceded him; and he was
                  received by young and old with the reverence, and scanned with the criticism, due
                  to a scion of divinity. He was half amused and half vexed, and meditated how he
                  should shake off his unmerited and unwelcome honors. Fortunately the missionary
                  soon arrived, and absorbed most of the reverence and criticism kept on hand for
                  such occasions. Fortunately, also, the worshippers at the union meeting-house are
                  careful not to commit themselves by too much cordiality, or too much criticism,
                  till the sectarian character of the claimant shall be known. It was uncertain what
                  wind of doctrine the young man might have brought with him; and Clack, Click,
                  Clock, and Cluck, each devised their plans to sound him.
               Meantime the missionary took his position. Harry recognized him, at once. It was
                  Rev. Titus Twangson, one of the devoted and self-sacrificing band who sailed, some
                  two years before, in his uncle's ship, the "Main Chance," from New York, bound for
                  the Sandwich Islands. Harry was at that
                  time a visitor at his uncle's; and, as the missionary ship was then a chief object
                  of interest with the family, he frequently went on board, and became quite well
                  acquainted with its arrangements, from the splendid cabin and saloon devoted to
                  the missionaries and their wives, to the less inviting forecastle devoted to the
                  sailors. The cargo of the Main Chance was made up partly of barrels of New England
                  rum, with muskets, powder and ball, and boxes of hardware, some of which, marked
                  "Hints for Brawlers," "Peace Persuaders," "Kentucky Codes," &c., excited his
                  curiosity, till told they were daggers, bowie-knives, and other trinkets of
                  commerce. Harry had previously, like many other thoughtless boys, felt a strong
                  inclination for the excitement and adventure of a sailor's life; but the
                  conversation at his uncle's concerning the great work of the missionaries, and the
                  great rewards to follow, and especially a comparison of the cabin and saloon with
                  the forecastle, gradually changed his views in favor of a missionary life; in
                  preparation for which, he cultivated a sentimental acquaintance with Miss
                  Neverspin, a young lady about his own age, and one of the missionary's daughters,
                  who, with her parents, sojourned a few days at his uncle's while the ship was in
                  preparation for departure. He also formed a particular acquaintance with Mr.
                  Ramble, second mate on board the Main Chance,—a young man of superior education
                  and congenial disposition, who promised to communicate to him whatever of interest
                  he might find in the voyage. Harry witnessed the celebration of the departure of
                  the missionaries, and helped sing the parting hymn. 
                     
                        "I must leave you, I must leave you,
                        Far in heathen lands to dwell."
                     
                  
               
               But Mr. Twangson did not dwell long in heathen lands; for he had returned, some
                  few months since, to recruit his health, and awaken missionary zeal at home, by
                  telling his experiences among the heathen. Harry had already been informed,
                  through Mr. Ramble, of a portion of his experiences, especially that he had
                  entered into a matrimonial engagement with Miss Neverspin, which was to be
                  fulfilled on his return. Harry, of course, hated the missionary who had thus
                  supplanted him. Not that his heart was wounded by Miss Neverspin's inconstancy;
                  for his own tender remembrance, as well as his missionary zeal, had faded away
                  long ago. But it was provoking to have the tender reminiscences recalled by the
                  presence of his successor. Therefore, though having no real cause of provocation,
                  he felt a kind of good-natured malice against the missionary, as though he should
                  like to see him "cornered," or upset in a snowdrift, or something of the sort,
                  which might ruffle but not hurt him.
               The missionary performed the services of the day with the grace and readiness
                  which habit gives. He depicted in gloomy colors the degradation of savage life
                  before the advent of the missionaries, and summed up the countless loss of souls
                  through idolatry and want of Christian instruction. He spoke in general terms of
                  the sacrifices and privations of the missionaries' life, separated from native
                  land and cultivated society; but represented them as willing to do and suffer all,
                  for the souls of the heathen, of whose worth he made a high estimate, and by a
                  plain arithmetical process proved the profits of their redemption. He earnestly
                  recommended the formation of a union missionary society, auxiliary to the American
                  Board, to be aided by a sewing-circle of the ladies; and also the children should
                  be permitted and encouraged to help by
                  the cent-a-week plan, upon which "infant offerings" he laid much stress; and, by
                  his economical calculations and pathetic appeals, he persuaded many a tender mind
                  to forego the customary stick of candy,—the cost of which might prove, in some
                  future age of eternity, to have been the price of a soul,—and to put the money
                  into the mission-box, and thus lay up treasures in heaven. By way of exciting
                  emulation; he gave accounts of the zeal and liberality of other places, some of
                  which had guaranteed a certain sum annually, and some had assumed the
                  responsibility of educating and supporting a missionary in the field. He suggested
                  several ingenious expedients for increasing the interest and swelling the
                  contributions for the cause; and praised the memory of several pious benefactors,
                  who had left liberal bequests in their wills, thus leaving a record which would
                  not be forgotten at the judgment-day.
               When he concluded, Mr. Click, wearing the well-pleased countenance of one whose
                  doctrinal star is in the ascendant, partly to signalize his triumph, and partly to
                  show his soundness of doctrine, made a speech in support of the views of the
                  minister. The other vowels, partly to cover their retreat from the vanquished
                  field, and partly to prove their independence, made commonplace, non-committal
                  speeches. Mr. Click, wishing to pursue his victory, looked significantly towards
                  Harry, and presuming, from the circumstance of his being a divinity student, and a
                  visitor at Deacon Arbor's, that he would be a good ally, arose, and "hoped that
                  the young brother from abroad, who had doubtless given the missionary subject his
                  prayerful consideration, would favor them with his views."
               Harry felt himself in "a tight place." Without fault of his own he was in a wrong
                  position. Half vexed and half amused at the absurdity of the blunder, he resolved
                  to right himself in such a way as to throw the embarrassment of the mistake upon
                  those who had made it. The meeting had already assumed something of a debating
                  character, and therefore the way was open for him. He felt stimulated by various
                  motives, principally mischievous, to take the negative, in opposition to the
                  minister, who, he perceived, had not the general and zealous support of the
                  majority.
               He rose and expressed himself willing to give his opinion upon the subject, for he
                  always felt liberal in the way of advice, however parsimonious he might be in
                  other matters. The question, like all others of a moral or economical nature, had
                  two sides, both of which should be fairly considered in making up judgment.
                  Religion is an excellent thing, especially when it makes people better; it is good
                  for something when it only makes them appear better,—for decent
                  hypocrisy is not so bad as open profligacy. It is better that the outside of the
                  cup and platter be clean than to be dirty on all sides; though it should be
                  considered that this convenience may cost too dearly, as is often the case when
                  things pass for what they are not, thereby shutting out the demand for the true
                  article. "As," said he, "should the people generally become satisfied with a
                  religion which dispenses with truth and honesty, and other essential items of
                  morality, perhaps the world may be the loser upon the whole, however some parties
                  might profit by the traffic." He presumed, however, it was the general intention
                  to send the true article to the heathen, whatever might be kept for home use.
                  Still he thought the expediency of the enterprise was an open question. The data
                  relied upon to prove the economy of saving the heathen should be closely examined. Admitting their inestimable
                  worth, two points remained to be proved: First, that their loss is certain without
                  missionary aid, and second, that missionary aid could save them. Upon the first
                  point he would not argue, as it involved theological questions, which he said
                  emphatically never had been his study. He would only observe that a very numerous
                  and respectable Christian sect believed that God would finally save all mankind,
                  and supported their belief by Scripture (here Mr. Cluck, the Universalist,
                  brightened up); perhaps he would save all who are worth saving, and it would be
                  poor economy to go further than that. As God is to be the final judge, it is right
                  to assume that he will be a good judge, and, if he had decreed the utter
                  reprobation of some, they might depend that it was for good reasons (here Mr.
                  Click, the Calvinist, looked approvingly); but he was of opinion that everybody
                  would have a fair chance for a free choice, and would not be damned but by their
                  own free will (here Mr. Clack, the Freewill Baptist, nodded assent), and there
                  might be good hope of a good time coming, when all the world, and the isles of the
                  sea, would land on Canaan's happy shore, and shout glory to God together. (Here
                  Mr. Clock, the Methodist, fervently shouted, Amen.)
               As to the other point, concerning the competency of the missionaries to save the
                  heathen, something might be said. He had received some direct and reliable
                  accounts from the Sandwich Islands, the most famous missionary ground, which
                  showed that rather a low morality prevailed there, even among the most cherished
                  converts. He proceeded to detail facts concerning the prevalence of polygamy,
                  concubinage, drunkenness, theft, serfdom, compelled ignorance, degradation, and
                  subjection of the masses to the irresponsible and abusive power of the chiefs, and
                  the absence generally of all the principles which Christianity pretends to, and
                  argued that the religion which did not show better fruits in this world afforded a
                  poor promise for the next, and might be dear even at a cent a week. His sarcasms
                  became so severe, that Mr. Twangson, who had for some time been uneasy, rose and
                  observed that the friend's remarks did not appear wholly appropriate to the
                  occasion, and that the time had arrived for concluding the meeting; but Mr. Cluck,
                  the Universalist, interrupted him, saying that the brother had been invited to
                  speak, and must be permitted to proceed, adding, with emphasis, that this was a
                  free house for all sides. Mr. Twangson, seeing no remedy, yielded, and Harry
                  proceeded.
               He said that, even conceding the points just argued, the question remained whether
                  a shorter and cheaper way of doing the work might not be adopted. Why spend so
                  many years and so much money to teach missionaries Greek and Hebrew, to convert
                  the heathen? Would not carpenters, and fishermen, and tent-makers, and farmers of
                  the right sort, do as well now as in olden time? He considered it a poor
                  preparation for missionary hardships, if such there were (though he had heard of
                  some luxuries on missionary ground, and had seen something of missionary cabins
                  and saloons, which gave him the suspicion that the missionary lot was as good as
                  the average lot of life). Yet, allowing the hardships, he thought a college life a
                  poor preparation for them, not only physically, but morally. He had seen enough to
                  know that. If he had a genius for anything, it was for withstanding temptation;
                  but he suspected that even himself was less qualified to teach things essential to
                  make the right sort of men and Christians than his friend here (patting Alek on
                  the shoulder), who had been brought up
                  in the bush, innocent of a college, or than either of the brethren who had
                  addressed them, from the pews, with so much sound doctrine.
               The timely and graceful compliment to all the vowels with which Harry concluded
                  his speech served to soften any dissatisfaction which he might have excited in
                  some; and Harry, though the partisan of none, had succeeded in generally pleasing
                  or conciliating an audience made up of adverse elements.
               Mr. Twangson, after giving notice that he should preach upon the subject next
                  Sunday in Rev. Mr. Boreman's meeting-house, and should remain in town during the
                  week to coöperate with the friends of the cause, dismissed the meeting. Mr. Chinby
                  urged Alek, with all his company, to go to his house for dinner, and remain to an
                  evening concert. Alek declined, but suggested that his friend Harry might remain,
                  and he would come for him, and be present at the concert. Harry consented to the
                  arrangement, and presently was snugly stowed in Chinby's family sleigh, with half
                  a dozen happy-looking Chinbys, including the blue-eyed daughters, as pretty and
                  well-dressed as ever. Chinby's horse moved off with his load as though he liked
                  it. The snow from his hoofs rattled against the fender, and flew over the sleigh.
                  The keen air, as they glided rapidly along, congealed their breath in white frost
                  upon hair and eyelashes, and gave a glowing red to cheeks and noses. None the less
                  bright and happy-looking are the half-dozen Chinbys; not the less pretty, the
                  blue-eyed daughters. It is but a mile in distance; and in a few minutes they were
                  at Chinby's door. The very door-yard speaks the character of the man,—prompt,
                  provident, neat, hospitable, and happy. The ample wood-pile rears itself a high
                  barrier against the biting north. On the south, elevated on ambitious legs, the
                  corn-house exhibits, through latticed crevices, its golden stores of shining ears.
                  Upon the east a row of barns and sheds form a high enclosure open to the south,
                  where, in the gathered sunshine, stately oxen, and quiet cows, and meek-looking
                  sheep, and querulous geese, and cackling hens, make a miscellaneous assemblage,
                  among which the self-inflated turkey-cock struts and ruffles his feathers with the
                  well-grounded pride of some "Ancient and Honorable Artillery" officer.
               The kitchen receives us with a cheerful welcome. It is the kitchen, yet, for
                  pleasant and inviting aspect, it might vie with the proudest saloon of fashion, so
                  clean, so light, so bright, so pure and fresh its atmosphere. From its wide
                  fireplace the glowing heat radiates through the ample room, and is reflected from
                  the white floor, and its long-worn but still substantial furniture. In his round
                  old arm-chair, near the chimney-corner, sits the superannuated father and
                  grandfather of the family; for Squire Chinby, though sixty years old, is but a
                  younger son, and Grandfather Chinby verges upon his hundredth year. Grandfather is
                  quiet, cheerful, and happy. He needs but little help, though everybody wants to
                  help him; for everybody honors him. He moves about the house, and in pleasant
                  weather visits the barn and the nearer fields. His son the squire, though, in
                  fact, needing no advice, always asks his father about the more important farming
                  operations; and the old man is as clear-headed as ever, and often gives really
                  valuable hints. He says it is pretty late in the evening of life for him to be up;
                  but soon it will be morning, and then he expects to be as bright and early as the
                  best of them.
               Mrs. Chinby, wife of the squire, and mother of the rest of the family, is of delicate appearance, and infirm
                  health. She has long been unable to superintend her household affairs; but her
                  blue-eyed daughters, scarcely sixteen, have for years kept things right. Look
                  about you, and see if anything is wrong. Every room is as neat as this, and always
                  so. And the daughters, do they not look equally agreeable? One would like to have
                  such daughters of his own; or, at least, to live always with such as these.
               A pleasant, mild-looking man, of intellectual countenance, and more delicate
                  appearance than is common in the country, is introduced. He reaches out his hand,
                  and welcomes you without rising. It is Charles, the squire's oldest son, deformed
                  and unable to walk from infancy. His chair is so contrived that he can move about
                  the room upon it; and he has another for locomotion out of doors. He is the
                  schoolmaster, shoemaker, basket-maker, tailor, and universal-genius of the family;
                  and often repairs watches, clocks, and musical instruments, for others. He is
                  always busy, and, as they say, always just so; meaning always
                  pleasant and agreeable. He has the reputation of great learning; but his learning,
                  like all his other attainments, is self-acquired. Converse with him, and your pity
                  for his infirmity will be forgotten in respect for his knowledge and
                  understanding. Of all the squire's family, none are more highly prized than
                  Charles.
               We give this exact description from real life, to show the position of an
                  independent Maine farmer, of thrifty habits and respectable understanding,
                  self-cultivated a little beyond the general average of his neighbors, but not more
                  so than the best of them. Without further detail, we request the reader to imagine
                  whatever of comfort, convenience, and luxury, may be enjoyed in that condition,
                  under the best circumstances, and he will have a fair picture of constant
                  every-day life at Chinby's. Wealth could reasonably desire nothing more. Wealth in
                  cities could not buy so much; for its glow and freshness cannot be transferred
                  thither, any more than the wild warblings of the birds, or first dewy fragrance of
                  the flowers, or the racy flavor of its summer fruits.
               Why should not a true history, like this, include an idea of the economy of
                  country life. At the risk of tediousness, we give this plain account, believing it
                  will be of interest, and perhaps of value, to some. Let us briefly finish it by
                  summing up the cost.
               Squire Chinby's farm, the only essential source of all his abundance, the ample
                  and independent home of his family, yielding support, for successive generations,
                  in sickness and health, is valued at no more than two thousand dollars. Surely it
                  requires but little wealth, when well employed, to enable man to sustain the
                  dignity, fulfil the duties, and enjoy the benefits of life. Let the
                  anxiously-toiling and harassed sons of trade, and slaves of city life, think of
                  this. Yet, should some city wight feel disposed to break his chain, and flee to
                  the freedom of a farm, let him not deem himself at once endowed with the faculties
                  of a Chinby. As the country boy makes many blunders and provokes much derision
                  before he can learn to prosper in the ways of the city, so the cit upon a farm,
                  though blessed with more self-conceit, is generally as unsuccessful in his early
                  essays, and is sometimes the subject of similar though more courteously restrained
                  ridicule.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               WINTER wanes from Wolfsden. The bland gales of the south dissolve his snowy
                  mantle. The swollen streams burst his icy chains. The mayflower peeps from its
                  leafy bed by the sunny margin of the forest, or on mossy banks, diffusing sweet
                  odors. The frogs trill their evening concert, and the robin wakes the morning with
                  a song. The forest unfolds, and spreads abroad upon the fragrant air its dress of
                  leafy green, while orchards and meadows bring out their vernal ornaments of bright
                  blossoms. Nature calls her children forth to new pleasures and new duties. She
                  spreads before the farmer his pleasing and well-rewarding work.
               But the mind of youth is often thrown from its even and well-ordered balance. A
                  single disappointment, like a stone thrown into the placid lake, breaks and
                  distorts the fair vision on every side. Youth waits not its returning repose, but
                  turns impatiently from the no longer lovely view; for experience has net yet
                  taught the sad but salutary-lesson of control, or given the habit of
                  endurance.
               Alek was no longer satisfied with the pleasures and duties, the realities and
                  anticipations, of his rural life. He must see the world, must try its fortunes,
                  and test his own powers. His best reasonings, drawn into the channel of his
                  feelings, urged upon him a new line of action. He will not, like the unreasoning
                  brute, suffer his course of life to be controlled by circumstance; for, even
                  should it chance to be the best, the merit of choice will not be his. He will
                  examine the ways of the world, and choose as his informed and ripened judgment
                  shall decide; and then, should he find his present lot the best, it will be doubly
                  so, for he will know how to value it.
               He talked with his father, and his father, though wise in experience and
                  observation, considered the immaturity of youth, and deemed content not too dearly
                  purchased at the expense of hard experience. He had confidence in the discretion
                  and principles of his son, and feared not to trust him abroad. He preferred, since
                  some opportune advantages now offered, that he should go soon, trusting that,
                  whether successful or not, he would the sooner return.
               From his mother he feared the greatest objections to his enterprise; for, without
                  her free consent, he would not go, and he knew the strength of her attachment. He
                  told her his thoughts, his wishes, and plans, and she approved and encouraged
                  them. He understood her; he knew the power of her self-sacrificing love, and he
                  again resolved that her affection should ever find in him a worthy object and
                  reward.
               It was of a Sabbath evening, a few days before the arrangements of his departure
                  were completed, that she talked with him at length, and alone. Let the holy words
                  of a mother's counsel be recorded. They who are already wise enough may pass them
                  by; to others, as to Alek, they may be words of salvation.
               "My son," said the mother, "you are now going, without experience, into a world
                  where the ways are dangerous, where nearly all suffer great losses, and many are
                  wholly lost. I have no experience of
                  the dangers you will meet; but I know that they are great, and that those most to
                  be feared are those of which you little think. I have learned the means by which
                  so many young men, who started in life with every hopeful promise, have been
                  driven or deluded into ruin. My love for you, my oldest son, the joy of my early
                  motherhood, and the hope of my declining years, has sharpened my reflections, and
                  prepared me to say some things to you, which something higher than my own reason
                  prompts, and tells me will be useful to you. I know that you, who have always
                  shown your unbounded love for me, and respect for my sentiments, will give due
                  weight to all I shall say; and that what you know to be right you will receive and
                  cherish with still more care and fidelity because your mother enjoins it. But I do
                  not wish for my influence to go beyond its proper limits. I only ask, as the
                  extent of a mother's privilege, that what I say to you in accordance with what you
                  feel to be right and proper in itself for you to observe, that you will esteem it
                  still more sacred and binding because of your mother; so that, if your own good
                  principles should ever be in danger of yielding in the hour of strong temptation,
                  your mother's memory and love may come to their aid, and save you. Will you
                  promise me this, my son?"
               "My dearest mother," said Alek, much affected, "my whole soul tells you YES. I
                  think I have better principles and more wisdom to direct me than most young men
                  who go out into the world; and it is because I was so fortunate as to be born of
                  you, and be educated by you; but I should lose all my self-respect, and all my
                  pride of parentage, if I should find in myself a disposition to undervalue your
                  instructions, now that my reflection enables me more than ever to see their pure
                  worth, and now that I shall need them more than ever, when I am away from under
                  your eye; though," continued he, playfully, "I can hardly think that
                  can be the case at all; for I know by experience that your eye follows me wherever
                  I go. And if I should be tempted to do a wrong thing a thousand miles off, I
                  should feel as if you knew it."
               "And be assured," said the mother, "I should know it,—at least, I should
                     feel it. It would be like a sigh breathed into my spirit, or a
                  drop of sadness falling into my heart. And by this I know that the consequences of
                  any sinful act are eternal. The act may be repented of, and the wound of sin
                  cured, but it can never be as if it had never been. The remembrance will always
                  remain. How great is the cost of every sin for which sorrowful remembrances and
                  regrets must be paid forever! O, how desirable to pass through this life so as to
                  have no cause for regret in the life to come! Before your birth, how anxious I was
                  that you should come into the world a fair and unblemished child; but how much
                  more do I hope and pray that, when this mortal life is done, you may be born into
                  the immortal world a pure and unblemished spirit! You have, thus far, fulfilled my
                  hopes, and filled my heart with joy and pride; and I trust that in all the
                  eternity. of which this life is to us the beginning, I shall forever rejoice in
                  you."
               "Dearest mother," said Alek, "if I should ever forget to value my eternal welfare
                  for my own sake, I shall, at least, remember it, and strive for it, for yours. It
                  would make even heaven uncomfortable to remember that I had slighted your
                  admonitions, or failed to fulfil all you expect of me."
               "I have," said the mother, "thought for a long while of what I shall now say to you; for I have anticipated
                  this hour of separation long before you thought of it. There is nothing marvellous
                  in this. The mother's instinct, deepened by reflection, and elevated by prayer, is
                  sufficient to account for what might seem, prophetic foresight. I have long known,
                  in my heart, that your path of life would lead you away from your mother's side,
                  into scenes and circumstances different from anything we know of. The thought has
                  lain heavily upon my heart when your heart was light; but I have felt sustained by
                  an abiding confidence that the God of your father and mother, and of your blessed
                  grandparents, will also be your God, and that you will not forsake him."
               "Beloved mother," replied Alek, "if every other bond which binds me to God and my
                  duty shall fail, my mother's memory, her prayers, and her love, shall still hold
                  me from falling away. I hope that I may have grace to love and obey God from still
                  higher principles; and till then I will love and obey him from love and obedience
                  to you."
               "My precepts," continued the mother, "will now be few, and chiefly on one point,
                  of which mothers seldom speak to their sons, and too seldom even to their
                  daughters. On other topics I have so carefully instructed you, that you know my
                  whole mind, and have profited by it in forming yours. You have come to the age,
                  and the maturity of thought and reflection, when boyish follies and indiscretions
                  are no longer likely to degrade you. You have too much self-respect and nobleness
                  of nature to allow anger, or envy, or mean ambitions, or jealousies, or fear of
                  the censure or ridicule of others, to make you do a wrong act, nourish an unworthy
                  feeling, or neglect a known duty. You know and I think coincide with my religious
                  views, which partake largely of the sentiments of our Quaker ancestors. The
                  Scriptures you will continue to study; for they teach of wonderful dealings of God
                  with men, which cannot elsewhere be learned. You will ever reverence the teachings
                  of Him who spake as never man spake, and fix them on your memory and heart, as the
                  sure guide of life. But the most noble result of this study will be the nourishing
                  in your heart of the inward light, superior to all other guides, and
                  without which even the Scriptures are vain. That is the SPIRIT, which shall lead
                  you into all truth. It is the voice of the Shepherd. If you watch, you will know
                  his voice. Fear not to follow it. It is more certain even than the written word;
                  for this may be misinterpreted, but the voice of God, speaking through a pure and
                  cultivated conscience, kept awake by constant watchfulness and obedience to its
                  teachings, will never permit you to be led astray. It is only by turning away from
                  this light that you can fall.
               "The danger which I fear for you is one into which many noble and gifted men have
                  fallen; and their nobleness and their gifts have become degraded and lost. Even
                  the best and most generous feelings of your nature, which would keep you from
                  falling into other dangers, may, in some circumstances, be a snare to lead you
                  into this.
               "My son, be pure. Keep your soul free from the pollution of an
                  unchaste emotion. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. The pure
                  in heart always see him. His light shines within and about them, and they walk,
                  with him. O, how noble and blessed they become who always walk with him! But alas!
                  how many and how alluring are the temptations which lead astray! They often seem
                  innocent when most to be feared. The way seemeth right when the end thereof is death. Venture not near
                  that dangerous boundary where virtue relaxes into the fashions of vice, and vice
                  puts on the pretences of virtue. Enter into a holy covenant with your mother, and
                  your own soul, and with God, that you will shun every path which leads into this
                  temptation; that, as soon as you see the first approaches of that sin, you will
                  turn from it. To your own soul, and your mother, and God, will you promise
                  this?"
               "I will," said Alek. His voice was deep; so was his resolve.
               "And may God give you discernment and strength to truly keep this covenant!
               "Your enlightened judgment and conscientious reflection will guide you to a right
                  application of these principles. To the society of pure and elevated women, even
                  the beautiful and accomplished, I would gladly commit, not only the forming of
                  your manners, but also the cultivation of those qualities of mind which make men
                  amiable, as well as good. The purest and most refining human influence comes from
                  refined and virtuous women. The best men are far inferior in their goodness to the
                  best women, and have far less power to influence others to goodness. I have
                  sometimes thought that our Saviour took the form of a man, rather than woman, that
                  he might show how grace can elevate that form of humanity which has the least of
                  native goodness.
               "Men naturally expect women to be more virtuous than themselves, and it therefore
                  is that an indiscreet or wanton woman is so dangerous; for even men, who by
                  themselves and others are accounted virtuous, seem to think woman alone the
                  guardian of that purity for which both men and women are justly and equally
                  responsible, and will therefore approach as near the boundary of vice as she will
                  permit. Let this base weakness never influence your conduct; and let this be your
                  rule, the best that my inexperience in this matter can suggest: that you will
                  never approach to a conduct, utter an expression, or even indulge a thought, which
                  you would be unwilling to have your mother and sisters know; and that, if you
                  shall find yourself in any society, however attractive, where you shall be in
                  danger of violating this rule, you will give it up at once, and avoid it
                  henceforth. In so doing," said the mother, "God will reward you. In due time you
                  will be crowned with all the happiness he designs for our mortal estate. You will
                  know what woman is worth when God shall lead you in the way of one whom you shall
                  first understand, and then honor, and then esteem, and then love, and who will
                  understand, and honor, and esteem, and love you. Love which is built on these
                  foundations is durable and happy. Domestic life, which is bound up in such a love,
                  is the highest of earthly happiness, and the most advantageous state of
                  preparation for eternal happiness. I trust that you will so wisely and truly live
                  as to secure both."
               They sat in silence many minutes. At length the mother rose, and, placing her
                  hands on Alek's head, and parting his hair, said: "My son, we have still some days
                  to be together, but remember this as our parting interview, and let all that we
                  have now said be treasured in your heart. Farewell, my son; may the blessing of
                  the God of thy fathers be with thee, and bring thee again in peace!"
               And, with a parting kiss, she went cheerfully from the room.
               Harry had now left Wolfsden. His enforced indulgence of absence terminated several
                  weeks since, and he returned to college
                  life, but not to the college of frivolities and dissipation which he so
                  unwillingly left. The professors and tutors were surprised at his thoughtful and
                  earnest manner and manly bearing, and reflected with self-complacency upon the
                  salutary effects of their admonition, and the benefit of their discipline. Could
                  they know the source of his reform, they would say that a wilder folly, like a
                  stronger evil spirit, had driven out the lesser demons, and taken sole
                  possession.
               Harry's elevated reputation, wherewith he was so gratuitously honored on his
                  arrival in Wolfsden, was quite as unceremoniously shorn from him before his
                  departure. The good name, which is better than precious ointment, is often a
                  precarious possession among those good folks who have naught to do but mark and
                  tell their neighbors' faults and folly. The voyager, who finds the sea always
                  smooth and the winds always favorable, either sails in a very large ship, or
                  steers a very crooked course. It was not Harry's genius to mind the winds and
                  courses much. He took no pains to preserve his unexpected honors, and no wonder he
                  lost them. His exposition of doctrines at Chinby's Meeting-house, though original
                  and able, was not thought to be "to edification;" in short, it was unlucky. To
                  expose the folly of the eminently good, is often to excite their animosity.
               Mr. Twangson had good reasons, or, at least, strong motives, to rebuke the
                  presumption of the young man who had so audaciously disputed the prerogative of
                  infallibility which pertains to a missionary as surely as to the Pope. He soon
                  learned Harry's history as understood in Wolfsden; and, by direct inquiry of Uncle
                  Timothy, at Deacon Arbor's, he found out the cause of his absence from his class
                  in college. He then expatiated with severity upon the depravity manifested, when a
                  person in his position, under censure for bad conduct, assumes a religious
                  character for a cloak under which to attack the most sacred institutions.
               Deacon Arbor and his family, who had now become well acquainted with Harry's frank
                  and open disposition, and who knew all the circumstances of the debate at the
                  North Meeting-house, could not fail to perceive that personal feelings entered
                  somewhat into the missionary's maledictions, and therefore kept their own opinion;
                  but with Parson Boreman, Deacon Murray, Mrs. Simperkins, and other elders, the
                  missionary had it all his own way, and Harry was denounced and anathematized where
                  he had been most zealously lauded and magnified. The parson, who remembered with
                  angry mortification that he had taken special pains to propitiate him, besides
                  having invited him to his pulpit, felt the holy horror and indignation of one who
                  has taken a viper to his bosom unawares. Mrs. Simperkins said it was the weriest
                  piece of himposition that hever come hunder er hobservation. Poor Mrs. Simperkins
                  had many mortifying remembrances with which to nurse her wrath and keep it warm;
                  and not even the remembrance of being honored with Harry's Latin and Greek could
                  mollify her. She could not assert that he had claimed to be a divinity student,
                  yet she insisted that he had assumed the character and conversation of one, on
                  purpose to deceive her and others; and to this view the parson and major both
                  assented, for why else had he not declared himself when invited to the pulpit?
                  Deacon Arbor's good opinion of his guest was set down to his own faulty
                  good-nature, which was always seeking excuses for everybody; and it was feared
                  that the deacon, though sound, was not too well grounded in the doctrine of total
                  depravity. The deacon was compelled to own that Harry had knelt on occasion of family prayer,
                  which they considered tantamount in him to a hypocritical profession of religion,
                  or a contemptuous mockery of it. Deacon Murray's deep and settled principles of
                  doctrine and prejudice were as grappling-irons and cables, to hold Harry's soul in
                  the predestined pit of perpetual perdition.
               The busy world made its comments upon this repudiation by the church, according to
                  the previous feelings of individuals. Some, who had envied Harry's honors, felt
                  gratified at seeing his reputation so suddenly rent to rags, and the divinity
                  student proved to be no better than themselves. Others, who really liked him, but
                  supposed that he had intentionally put on the pretence of piety for the sake of
                  mischief, laughed at the joke by which "the elect" had been quizzed; while others,
                  of a higher character, who had an esteem for him, and knew not the facts,
                  regretted the deceitful part they supposed him to leave acted. Margaret,
                  especially, was astonished at the development of the wolf from the garb of the
                  lamb, as the missionary expressed it; and felt all the sincere regret of a
                  delicate mind, on finding duplicity in one whom she had believed worthy of all
                  confidence and honor.
               But Harry did not remain long enough to observe the regretful or averted looks of
                  former friends. In Deacon Arbor's family he was as well regarded as ever; and in a
                  few days his pleasant visit at Wolfsden terminated. During this time, he had
                  learned of Alek his determination to travel and seek his fortune; and had given
                  him much wise advice, drawn from his own experience, and such as might formerly
                  have been profitably adopted by himself, however little adapted to Alek's probable
                  contingencies,—in addition to which he gave him the more promising benefit of an
                  earnest introduction to his uncle in New York, with whom, notwithstanding his
                  irregularities, he still had some influence.
               Dressed in a new and substantial suit of clothes, in which a city tailor might
                  perhaps see something to remind him of the description of Yankee Doodle's dress,
                  bating the striped trousers, with a bundle under his arm, and a stout staff in his
                  hand, and a leathern pocket-book weighty with silver coin, tokens of love and
                  resources in exigency, Alek departed from his home on foot and alone. He could
                  have commanded an escort of friends and horses, but he determined to begin as he
                  expected to go on. Adopting Harry's phrase, he said it was his genius to go away
                  on foot; and if his genius should find horses and coaches for him, he would come
                  back in different style; otherwise, his return, however humble, should not shame
                  his departure. His friends were satisfied with his reasons and his resolution. He
                  departed laden with blessings, prayers, and prophecies of good.
               The freshness of early morning strengthened the elasticity of his vigorous frame
                  and youthful spirits. His firm resolve fortified his heart against the weakness of
                  regret. The many-linked chain of home affections and habitudes he might not break,
                  but he was strong to drag its increasing length. The conscious heaviness upon his
                  heart he would not throw off, if he could; for he felt that, like the dollars in
                  his pocket, it was a salutary-weight. His countenance was not the less bright nor
                  his step less light.
               Of the younger ones left behind, he foresaw the most troublesome parting with
                  little Amy, for she would cling to his neck, and insist that he should not go;
                  therefore he started the earlier, and passed Colonel Bowler's before the family had risen, and Amy only knew he was
                  gone when Fanny came over, after breakfast, to give the present and the kiss he
                  had left for her. Alek was already many miles away, for he walked like the man in
                  Bunyan's Dream, who believed the avenger of blood to be pursuing him, or rather as
                  one whose resolution is wound up so tightly that his body must go, perforce. His
                  path first lay across the pasture and woods, by which he saved a long distance;
                  after which, he pursued the crooked and irregular yet generally smooth and
                  pleasant road, which follows the Saco's winding stream, along green banks or
                  through dark woods, or often among abrupt and precipitous rocks, where a traveller
                  is seldom seen. The robin welcomed him with her brisk and cheerful morning melody.
                  The squirrel, perched on a projecting bough, chattered an angry remonstrance at
                  his approach. The distant quail still at intervals recalled in mournful monotony
                  the remembrance of Poor-Bob-White. Yet on moved Alek, unmindful of the morning
                  melody, the angry clamor, or the mournful monotony. His soul wag absorbed in
                  contemplations too deep to be disturbed by external sights or sounds.
               The sun rose high, and exhaled the dew. The road wound along a high embankment,
                  which rose upon the right towards a precipitous hill of rifted granite, where the
                  broken and cavernous sides sometimes gave root to a tall, waving pine, or a
                  spreading beech, bat where mostly the sharp rocks elevated their points above the
                  scanty shrubs of dwarf oak and white birch. On the left, the river stretched its
                  silvery line far away toward the south, often losing itself, and still returning
                  to view,—now with gentle embrace surrounding little islands, and lingering
                  lovingly among green meadows, slid anon sweeping rapidly by the base of
                  overshadowing hills, and leaping with foaming fury along its narrow and shelvy
                  channel.
               A rocky rivulet, dashing from among the cliffs upon the right, glided with a
                  gentler but still rapid flow along its rough bed, and gave its slight but constant
                  tribute to the sovereign stream. A shady nook upon its margin invited repose.
                  Exercise had sharpened appetite; and Alek sat down by the rivulet, beneath an
                  overhanging beech, and spread out the plentiful and inviting repast provided by
                  loving hands. He ate with a good will, and drank from the cool waters. He reclined
                  upon the mossy margin, and indulged reveries of the home from which he was now a
                  wanderer, and of joys and hopes now departed. He thought of the vicissitudes, the
                  efforts, the possibilities and uncertainties, to come.
               The soft murmur of the stream, the drowsy hum of busy insects, the hollow drum of
                  the partridge far in the woods, the stillness of the air, the sultry heat of the
                  sun, and the refreshing coolness of the shade, combined to prolong his rest.
                  Sleep, of late defrauded of its due, now stole upon him unawares. The unguided
                  current of his busy thought still moved on, and in fancy he still pursued his
                  uncertain way. Difficulties and dangers obstructed him, but were magically
                  surmounted and overborne. Bright visions of prosperity surrounded him. He found
                  himself the favorite of fortune, and The companion of fortune's favorites. The
                  latent feeling of doubt that there might be fallacy in what seemed so fair,
                  gradually gave way to assurance and security. He congratulated himself upon the
                  self-discerning merit which at length had raised him to his proper sphere.
               Still there were incongruities in his position which perplexed plexed him. He wished to justify to himself and
                  others his self-estimate and his fame by great deeds, but found not the
                  opportunity. It was in the dim past that his claims of merit lay, or in some great
                  thing which he was about to accomplish; yet he could not remember what it was that
                  he had achieved, or was yet to achieve. He received praises and honors with pain,
                  fearing that, after all, they might belong to another; and he dreaded the moment
                  when the mistake should be discovered, but found no friend to aid him with
                  explanation or advice. Like a monarch doubtful of the allegiance of his subjects,
                  and distrusting most of all his obsequious servants and flatterers, he secretly
                  regretted his miserable splendor.
               A lovely female form, blending the fair proportions and dignified grace of
                  Margaret with a softer beauty, and a strange and incomprehensible kindness and
                  condescension, as if to atone for past coldness, hovered about him, ever
                  displaying new fascinations. His mother's hallowed counsel girded him about with a
                  panoply which no seductions could penetrate. Yet he felt ashamed of his reserve,
                  lest it might be mistaken for clownishness, and timidly relaxed his rigor. He gave
                  smile for smile, endearment for endearment, and caress for caress. Suddenly a
                  strange sense of danger startled him. He turned and saw in the shadow of his fair
                  companion the grim and fearful form of death, with upraised dart, in attitude to
                  strike. He started with horror, and his dream was gone. His head reclined against
                  the smooth rind of the overshadowing beech but still the sense of danger thrilled
                  his nerves. He turned his head and moved his hands, to assure himself of his
                  position, for he was yet largely awake. Instantly a sharp and prolonged rattling
                  noise, near his side, startled him. With instinctive horror, he threw himself, by
                  a sudden impulse of his body, to a distance of several feet in the opposite
                  direction, and was instantly erect and facing the deadly peril. It was the fatal
                  rattlesnake. With head raised above its coiled body, and with flashing eyes, he
                  was in the instant preparation for the deadly spring. But Alek was now at a safe
                  distance. By a hairbreadth of space, and a point of time, he had escaped a
                  horrible death. His nerves were strung to the tension that comes only when men are
                  surest of what they attempt. He seized a stone, and threw it with the force and
                  precision of a rifle and the reptile's head was dashed from its writhing body. He
                  then looked cautiously about, but no mate of the hideous reptile was in sight.
                  With fervent devotion, he knelt and thanked his Maker for his preservation, and
                  prayed that the lesson of his dream and his danger, whatever it might be designed
                  to teach, might not be lost upon him. He then hung up the lifeless reptile by the
                  road-side, as a warning to other travellers not to rest in the dangerous place,
                  and pursued his way.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               THE reader, if a "friend of humanity," remembers the poor hut of Bang, and his
                  deserted forge, and sorry cow, and discontented pig, upon whose forlorn lot we
                  cast a passing glance, while buffeting the storm and breaking the road on the day
                  before the new year. The only pleasant thing we saw about the cheerless dwelling
                  was the brave face of the boy Ax, the youngest son of Bang, who, with stocking
                  upon his head and new boots on his feet, reinforced our party. We have since met
                  with Ax in the schoolmaster's story, but have hitherto necessarily delayed the
                  history of the family, which, as an essential part of this impartial record, can
                  no longer be neglected.
               Twenty-five years ago, Mr. Benjamin Barker married Miss Susan Twist. So were the
                  names spelt in the town-clerk's publishment; and so were they pronounced by the
                  Rev. Mr. Boreman, who solemnized the bans; that is, who pronounced them man and
                  wife, and, over a glass of toddy, wished them good luck. That was a jolly evening.
                  The ceremony was performed at Colonel Bowler's, and young folks and old folks,
                  parson and all, had a good time. To the principal parties the good time lasted
                  some half a dozen years, with occasional interruptions, growing more frequent and
                  serious, till at any time within twenty years the good time was all gone, and all
                  times were bad at Bang's. For now everybody called him Bang, and he had come to
                  call himself Bang.
               In the first bright beginning of his career, he had procured a new sign, on which
                  a rampant red horse was painted, with himself in the act of shoeing him; and
                  underneath, in letters as large as the sign would hold, and bright as red ochre
                  and oil could make, was painted, B. BARKER, BLACKSMITH. The sign did not overstate
                  the owner's merits. He was a blacksmith, every inch, and his inches were many.
                  From a jewsharp to a ploughshare, from a pegging-awl to a bear-trap, nothing was
                  beyond his skill; but he prided himself most in his superior success in shoeing
                  horses and oxen, and tempering axes. Custom came in plenty. His hammer's ring
                  might ever be heard from dewy morn till dusky eve; and none made money faster than
                  "B. Barker, Blacksmith." Mrs. Susan Barker, to use teamster's phrase, kept up her
                  end of the yoke. She had been for several years the principal tailoress in town.
                  Deacon Arbor has still a great-coat with two great capes, made by Susan, a little
                  before she had taken upon herself the dignities of married life, unknowing what
                  indignities were to follow. If activity in all domestic duties could make a good
                  housewife, Susan was a pattern to housewives. Everybody said she was as "smart as
                  a steel-trap," and was born to make her way in the world. The description of her
                  qualities was true, but the prophecy of her success was a failure. Whether the
                  milder and more endearing qualities of womanhood, if she had possessed them, would
                  have improved her condition, may not be provable; but certainly there was an
                  abundant lack in her dwelling of those
                  gentle influences which make home the nursery of good habits. And yet there was no
                  lack of religion among her elements. She had experienced religion when young, and
                  joined Parson Boreman's church; and for many years before her marriage, and
                  several years afterward, was prominent and zealous in all church matters, pushing
                  forward all sorts of movements favored or tacitly allowed by the minister,—such as
                  begging subscriptions for a bell; starting the Sunday-school, where little boys
                  and girls recited whole chapters of the Bible, in competition for the
                  picture-books which should reward the most successful, and excite the angry
                  discontent of the unsuccessful competitors; settling the disturbances of the
                  musical choir, self-styled the "Philharmonic Band," whose inharmonic bickerings
                  were frequently felt, in dissonant undulations, from the centre to the furthest
                  verge of the society.
               Some movements in which her influence was not allowed its accustomed weight had
                  long ago offended her, and she had withdrawn in dudgeon from active interference
                  in church and parish affairs; not, however, till a little before the birth of her
                  fourth son. To the preceding three she had given the evangelical names of Matthew,
                  Mark, and Luke, and her fourth was in due time christened John. The joke then
                  passed round, that the next one was predestined to the name of Acts.
               In the interval between the birth of John and Ax an affair of great and tragic
                  interest had occurred, which overthrew the already waning respectability of the
                  Barker family, and fixed their position in the pariah caste, who still will have a
                  place in every community. A brief account of this affair may properly be given
                  here.
               Susan Twist had an only brother, one year younger than herself. They were left
                  orphans at an early age by a worthless pair, who died, or disappeared in some
                  forgotten way. The boy and girl, whose education and whose inherited tendencies
                  were of the most unfavorable kind, were then separated, and bound, or adopted,
                  into respectable families. The girl was taken into Colonel Bowler's family, where
                  she was properly employed and provided for till she came of age, when she chose a
                  situation where she could learn the tailor's trade, in which she was very
                  successful till her marriage, as already recorded. The brother Jotham proved less
                  manageable, and, after a few years, in which he was at first the plague and
                  afterwards the terror of his benefactors, he ran away. He was then but about a
                  dozen years old, but of strength and activity extraordinary for his years, and
                  with at temper and disposition which promised anything but good from his physical
                  qualities. A daring act of insubordination in school, at the beginning of the
                  winter term, had compelled the master to inflict chastisement. A violent conflict
                  ensued, in which Jotham fought desperately, but was soundly beaten, and compelled
                  to yield. Stung with mortification and rage, he determined on revenge; and at the
                  recess he watched the opportunity, and while the master stood at the window
                  within, he hurled a billet of wood from without with such force that it shivered
                  the sash, prostrated the master, and scattered the glass throughout the
                  school-house. This done, he took to his heels; and, though pursued by the whole
                  school, with the master, who had quickly recovered himself, at their head, he made
                  good his escape, and immediately absconded from Wolfsden, and nothing reliable was
                  heard from him for twenty years. It was rumored that he had gone to sea, had
                     become pirate, had been caught and
                  hung, had become a prize-fighter fighter in New York, had beaten a dozen
                  champions, and at length had met with more than his match, and after a desperate
                  conflict had finally been killed outright; that he had entered the burglary and
                  counterfeit money business, had been sentenced to state-prison for ninety-nine
                  years; that he had gone to Texas and Mexico, had joined the Indians and been made
                  a chief, and distinguished himself with the scalping-knife and tomahawk.
               His real adventures were probably as various and desperate as the rumors, though
                  not exactly coinciding with them; for it is certain that in little more than
                  twenty years afterwards, when he had become pretty much forgotten, he reäppeared,
                  looking much like any ordinary mortal, who had not been an executed pirate nor an
                  Indian chief, though here were scars about his face which seemed to favor the
                  prize-fighting report, to which also his swaggering air gave further confirmation.
                  Indeed, his whole appearance, indicating strength, pugnacity, and recklessness,
                  was such that none, even among the stout and hardy yeomen of Wolfsden, would
                  willingly have disputed with him, and it was conceded that the wisest way was to
                  give him few words and a wide berth, although a few resolute fellows had made the
                  observation that he must keep his insolence within reasonable limits, unless he
                  felt himself able to fog the whole town at once.
               Circumstances soon led to a conflict, which, though less general and more equal
                  than that which had been talked of as possible, was sufficiently tragical in its
                  results. Jotham had naturally taken up his abode with his sister and
                  brother-in-law, where he was received and entertained with the hospitality to
                  which his relationship was a sufficient claim. For some time previous, the
                  condition and respectability of the blacksmith had been declining. His wife, from
                  being a thrifty manager, a busy neighbor, and a restless parish meddler, had
                  gradually degenerated to a noisy, quarrelsome shrew. Her boys, like the tiger's
                  whelps, so pretty, before their claws are grown, had, notwithstanding their
                  evangelical names, matured into very unevangelical characters, whom careful
                  neighbors cautioned their children to avoid. His horse, and cow, and pigs, which
                  generally ran in the road, showed their disposition and education, to be no better
                  than those of the children; for they broke into other people's enclosures, where,
                  not content with satisfying their appetites, they wrought much wanton mischief and
                  waste. Bang himself had also degenerated from a good blacksmith, a decent citizen,
                  and a fair neighbor, into the opposite of all those characteristics. Home
                  influences had doubtless done much of this; for it is to a great degree the wife
                  who moulds the husband's character. No man is more than half developed till after
                  marriage; and it generally depends upon the wife whether his possible good
                  qualities shall grow and give color to his character as husband and head of the
                  family, or whether these shall be repressed and choked by the harsher and less
                  noble dispositions which have their elements in every human heart.
               Here we might introduce a valuable dissertation upon family economics; the
                  relative and reciprocal influences of husband and wife; the comparative importance
                  of different domestic qualities in each; what are the incompatibilities and what
                  the indispensable conditions of a congenial home; and how far outward
                  circumstances, as wealth, poverty, refinement, simplicity, and other accidentals,
                  enter into those conditions; and how qualities which, carried to a proper
                     extent, are virtues, may, by their
                  excess, produce the worst results of vice—unhappiness, discord, degradation. But,
                  in the mean time, who shall help along our story, which, not lagging for the sake
                  of philosophy, must carry its moral with it, or leave it to the reader's
                  reflection. Besides, it is well known that those who most need maxims of wisdom
                  for the guidance of domestic life are those whose unteachable tempers, perverse
                  dispositions, and headstrong habits, disqualify them for profiting by counsel,
                  whether preached from the pulpit or inculcated in history.
               But there were bad things abroad with which the things at home were only
                  subordinate helps to hasten the ruin of Bang and his family. Bragly's Corner was a
                  little beyond Bang's shop. Bragly's store was on Bragly's Corner; Bragly kept
                  groceries and other small notions, and especially rum, in all its vile varieties.
                  Here the thriftless coopers and shingle-makers from Herring Cove brought their
                  manufactures and exchanged them for rum, tobacco, and other domestic delicacies.
                  Herring Cove is a poor neighborhood, behind Saddleback Hill, and is so called in
                  derision from the quantities of smoked and pickled herrings bought at Bragly's and
                  consumed there. Here Chadbourn, the shiftless mason, spent for like luxuries the
                  avails of occasional jobs; and here also his lean old crone brought skeins of
                  flaxen thread, small baskets of eggs, an occasional pair of woollen socks, and
                  such small ware, to exchange, for tea and snuff. Here also congregated the idle
                  and dissipated from various quarters, to spend rainy afternoons and winter
                  evenings in maudlin mirth, drunken dispute, angry altercations, and sometimes
                  bloody-nosed battles. While business was good, Bang seldom visited Bragly's, but
                  either his visits became more frequent because his business became more dull, or
                  his business became more dull because his visits became more frequent, or these
                  two facts cooperated, till, after a time, it came to be understood, generally that
                  if Bang was not at his shop he might be found at Bragly's; and, after a still
                  further time, that the first place to look for Bang was at Bragly's. Even when in
                  his own shop, he was commonly saturated with Bragly's fluid, and surrounded with
                  Bragly's atmosphere. Iron and coal were not more indispensable to his operations
                  than his bottle. The consequences are already recorded. The profits of his
                  industry were absorbed in the profits of Bragly's trade. Poverty, waste, discord,
                  recklessness, and all the demons of ruin, printed their cloven hoofs and grinned
                  with their ugly visages about the premises of Bang. Sullen discontent, rude
                  taunts, and finally downright quarrels, made a part of the daily family life.
                  Neighbors at first interfered, advised, took sides, and, as usual, made matters
                  worse, and then discontinued the common civilities of reputable acquaintanceship,
                  and left them to their inevitable infamy.
               It was at about this stage of downward progress that Jotham returned to Wolfsden,
                  and took up his residence at the house of his brother-in-law Bang. At first it
                  seemed that his advent was salutary. For some time there was no noisy quarrel in
                  the house, and there happening to be a good demand for work at that season, the
                  shop presented a scene of unusual activity. Jotham gave good aid with the
                  sledgehammer, and Bang did a good business.
               But the malign influences had too long established their sway to allow their
                  permanent power to be doubted. Household quarrels became more violent than ever.
                  Jotham naturally took his sister's side, and, thus backed, she became more violent in her temper and speech than
                  ever, until, one day, Bang being half drunk and quite abusive, she proceeded, for
                  the first time, to personal violence, and struck him over the head with a broom.
                  Bang gave her a kick in return, which sent her prostrate across the room, and was
                  in turn knocked down by Jotham. A regular fight commenced, in which,
                  notwithstanding the great strength of Bang, he was severely beaten, without being
                  able to inflict any serious injury upon Jotham, who, either from the advantage of
                  what pugilists term "science," or by his greater activity, was able to parry the
                  blows to Bang, and to "plant" his own with frightful effect.
               Bang seemed to digest his beating well enough; for, though horribly disfigured
                  about the face, and lamed in both arms, he kept at work, and associated with his
                  brother-in-law as usual. Mrs. Barker, who was the beginner of the fray, was
                  perhaps the greatest sufferer by it; for, besides being hurt by the kick, and
                  frightened by the fury and blood of the combat, the like of which never had been
                  witnessed in Wolfsden, she suffered still more in her property, the furniture and
                  crockery of the room being generally smashed in the conflict, and little could she
                  expect that her beaten husband or victorious brother would repair it.
               Things went along without further disturbance for a week or two. Bang recovered
                  from his bruises, and was less devoted to the bottle. Some said that since he got
                  his "gruel" he had less appetite for his whiskey. Others thought he kept guarded,
                  that, in case of another quarrel, he might not be taken at advantage; as he had
                  intimated that his recent defeat was owing to his being drunk. It is not known how
                  the second conflict occurred. One afternoon, the loungers at Bragly's were
                  suddenly, summoned by the screams of a woman, soon recognized as Mrs. Barker, at
                  the blacksmith-shop. Hastening hither, they found Jotham prostrate on the floor,
                  with a frightful wound in his temple, through which blood and brains were oozing.
                  An old axe lay on the other side of the shop, which had evidently been thrown with
                  great violence, as it had made a deep indentation in a blocks by which it was
                  lying. It was free from any stain of blood, and was supposed to have been hurled
                  with such fury as to have accomplished its murderous mission in its passage
                  without receiving a stain. The shape of the wound, which indicated that the
                  instrument had glanced from it, together with the position of the body, favored
                  this idea. Bang was not present, but soon came in with a pail of water, a part of
                  which he threw in the face of the dying man, with the purpose of recovering him.
                  No other remedy was attempted; and in a short time the broad chest of the victim
                  ceased to heave, and he breathed his last.
               Bang made no attempt at escape, and gave no explanation of the circumstances above
                  described. There had evidently been a severe fight. Bang was bruised in his face
                  and various parts of his body, though his brother-in-law seemed to have suffered
                  no wound but that which terminated his life. It was supposed that Bang, being
                  foiled in "planting" his blows by the superior "science" of Jotham, and being
                  severely "punished," as his various bruises showed, had, in his exasperation,
                  seized the axe, which he hurled with such fatal aim at his adversary's head.
                  Bang's persevering silence on the subject, which was probably from sullen
                  doggedness, or perhaps from confusion and inability to recall the incidents of the
                  struggle, was, in his situation, the course which policy would have dictated, as thereby he avoided
                  committing himself by contradictions or confessions. In the judicial
                  investigation, which took place afterward, the whole affair was involved in so
                  much doubt and obscurity, that the jury, after a long consultation, acquitted
                  Bang, who went back to his family. Mrs. Bang's testimony, if it had been
                  admissible, would probably have changed the verdict to manslaughter, or perhaps
                  murder; yet, though it could not be doubted that Bang killed Jotham, few affected
                  to view him as a murderer, and none regretted the fate of his victim.
               From this time till about two years afterward, Bang continued his downward course
                  of drunkenness, degradation, and ruin, with even accelerated speed, working only
                  enough to get the means of filling his bottle at Bragly's, and bearing in sullen
                  sottish silence the eloquent exhortations and angry reproaches of his unhappy
                  vixen partner. Meanwhile his boys of evangelical names and anti-evangelical
                  dispositions had grown up to precocious manhood and precocious depravity. Home
                  lessons had not been lost upon them. Kindred accomplishments, gained from other
                  sources, or adopted from instinct, had supplied the deficiencies of home
                  education, as their frequent depredations upon neighbors' gardens, orchards,
                  hen-roosts, and other exposed property, plainly showed. Finally, they had
                  successively run away, each one after having perpetrated some more than usually
                  daring outrage, as if to prove the maturity of his attainments, and his fitness
                  for a wider space of action. Another son had also been born some six months after
                  the tragic event before recorded, whom the mother, in memory of her murdered
                  brother, named Jotham, but, through the potency of persevering jest, he was now
                  only known as Ax.
               Some months after the last event, a better day dawned upon Bang. It dawned, but,
                  alas! it did not brighten into perfect light. The temperance movement had already
                  included Wolfsden in its sphere, and there was a numerous and popular society
                  (composed chiefly of young ladies), pledged to total abstinence, which had its
                  annual cerebrations, its occasional lectures, its Fourth of July picnics, and
                  other social attractions. The chief object of this society was to preserve the
                  virtue of temperance where it already existed, and it made no effort to reclaim
                  those who had become drunkards, such being generally considered irreclaimable.
                  Some philanthropists abroad, however, adopted a different view, and, under the
                  able leadership of Mr. Hawkins, a man gifted with rare powers of persuasive
                  eloquence, and himself a reformed drunkard, instituted most active and successful
                  proceedings for the reformation of drunkards, even of the most abandoned class.
                  This was called the "Washingtonian Movement," and the history of its labors and
                  triumphs is well known. It is one of the brightest and most cheering pages of the
                  book of humanity. The world owes a debt of gratitude to the devoted, laborious,
                  and eloquent apostles of this mission of mercy, which it can never repay, and
                  never will even appreciate, till truth and worth shall triumph over the falsehood
                  and folly which have so long ruled mankind.
               One of the earnest advocates of this reformation came to Wolfsden, and succeeded,
                  by means of that peculiar art of persuasion, which only a good cause and sincere
                  devotion to it can inspire, in making several converts among the worst inebriates.
                  Several signal trophies of this remarkable reformation remain in Herring Cove and
                  other parts of Wolfsden to vindicate
                  the divinity of the mission, and the claims of humanity, even in its lowest
                  estate, to the respect, the pity, and the help, of the brotherhood of man.
               It somehow happened that the church in Wolfsden did not favor this innovation.
                  Deacon Murray replied to the zealous Washingtonian that his doctrine appeared
                  sound, in not sufficiently recognizing the total depravity of man and the
                  sovereignty of God. Parson Boreman said the matter was not in his line. His duty
                  was to preach the Gospel, which invites sinners to come, letting them hear or
                  forbear, as they might choose. Deacon Arbor showed a disposition to help the
                  Washingtonians, and made the agent welcome at his house while he remained; and
                  Aunt Deborah, when she heard of the parson's answer, said that the MASTER came to
                  seek and to save those who were lost, and did not wait for them to come to
                  him.
               Although many, perhaps most of the Washingtonian converts in Wolfsden, held fast
                  their integrity, yet several, after running well for a time, fell away, and became
                  sots as before. Among these was Bang. The wonder was not that he relapsed, but
                  that he stood so long; for it was about a year before he returned to his old
                  habits, and it may fairly be presumed that, but for the near vicinity of Bragly's
                  and the many temptations to which his employment subjected him, and perhaps the
                  want of that constant supervision of encouraging friends which was one of the
                  chief reliances of the Washingtonian reform, but which, in sparsely-settled towns,
                  is not always available, his reformation might have been permanent. Its good
                  effects, while it lasted, were remarkable.
               Though far from possessing the energy of his youth, he was perseveringly
                  industrious. His shop was frequented by good employers. His doors and windows were
                  mended; his garden and wood-pile and other surroundings showed signs of thrift
                  and, what should have been taken as an omen and pledge of continued blessing, a
                  daughter was added to the household, one which the better guidance of the Mother,
                  under these more favorable auspices, might have brought up to redeem the
                  reputation of the blighted and doomed family. That the promise of better days
                  might lack nothing of its fulfilment, Mrs. Bang seemed to have met with as
                  favorable a change as her husband. Whether the tragical death of her brother, the
                  trial and almost conviction of Bang, the profligacy and flight of her boys, and
                  the continued and hopeless misery of her domestic life, had broken down her
                  violent spirit, or whether the hopeful reformation of her husband, with the
                  earnest exhortation and entreaty of the Washingtonian missionary that she would
                  encourage his reformation by making his home congenial, added to the mollifying
                  influence which maternity and infant dependence exercises in the female heart, or
                  from whatever cause, Mrs. Bang became comparatively a mild and patient woman,
                  fulfilling with fidelity the duties of mother and wife. There can be no doubt also
                  that the frequent visits and encouraging words of Aunt Deborah and Helen, and
                  other members both of Deacon Arbor's and Colonel Bowler's family, helped to
                  prolong the improvement. Little Ax's disposition formed under the improved
                  domestic examples which this reformation introduced; and especially the lovable
                  and winning ways of the little daughter, as she grew, proved the reality and the
                  value of the change. And though Bang afterwards fell into his old habits; yet Mrs.
                  B. remained, in a great degree, improved. She could not become quite a lamb in her
                  temper; nature and long habit could not be so entirely subdued. Yet she exercised a mother's powerful
                  influence for the well-being and right guiding of her children. And though poverty
                  and evil example hindered her, yet she managed to shield her little ones from
                  their worst effects. Ax was equal in natural intelligence and principles to other
                  boys; and little Susan—for she was named for her mother—was, notwithstanding her
                  parentage, the favorite of the neighborhood.
               I think it unfortunate that any occasion was given to the enemies of religion of
                  accusing the church of being the cause of Bang's relapse. I think it would perhaps
                  have been better, considering the results, that, since it had done nothing to
                  prevent Bang's ruin, and nothing afterward to redeem him, if it had continued its
                  forbearance till the experiment of his redemption by other hands had been fully
                  carried out. It is proper, however, that the facts, as they actually were, should
                  be recorded, for the light they may cast on future cases of the kind.
               It was about a year after Bang's reformation, and when it came to be understood
                  that he was a man to be depended upon, and was getting up in the world, that it
                  was suggested in a church-meeting that some watch and care should be extended over
                  Sister Barker and her family (for she still belonged to the church, though so long
                  neglected and forgotten); and, since there appeared to be a prospect of their
                  being respectable members of society, it would be as well to look after them, and
                  bring them within the means of grace. This was assented to, and Deacon Arbor was
                  named to manage the matter. The deacon declined the service, saying that he feared
                  such efforts would be unavailing, as the course of the church had created some
                  prejudice among the Washingtonians, which would be hard to overcome; and that, in
                  his opinion, the time was past for attempting to bring them into the church.
               Parson Boreman replied that "it was never too late to do good; that we must be
                  instant in season and out of season; and while the lamp holds out to burn the
                  vilest sinner may return," and much more of the same sort; and nominated Major
                  Murray to the duty declined by the deacon. A worse choice could scarcely have been
                  made. Major Murray was as upright and irreproachable in his life as a man made of
                  cast-iron, but was also as stiff and unconciliating. A rigid Calvinist, and firm
                  believer in the sanctity of the church and its ordinances, through which alone
                  salvation could be obtained, his rule of Christian duty ran exactly in the groove
                  of the Westminster Catechism, doing what might be done in that track, and running
                  over or knocking aside whatever came not in that scope of action.
               Major Murray called upon Mrs. Barker, the next day, and opened his embassy in a
                  style worthy of Cotton Mather himself. He told her that the church had regarded
                  with great grief her absence from its ordinances, and felt it their duty to
                  admonish her, and that he trusted she would feel the importance of the stated
                  means of grace, &c.; that the awful inflictions and warnings which she had
                  experienced in her own family ought to humble her under a sense of divine
                  displeasure. And then he compared her case with that of Abigail, who, though the
                  wife of a churl, and a man of Belial, nevertheless found favor; and also that of
                  Eli, whose two sons, Hophni and Phineas, were reprobates, and were destroyed,
                  though he was saved; and also Jacob, who was chosen, though his brother Esau was
                  rejected; and, with these precedents for her exclusive salvation, and the
                  reprobation of her kindred, he told her
                  that she should look only to God's glory, and put, away the carnal affections.
                  "For," said he, in heaven we shall be so changed by grace that we shall rejoice in
                  the vindication of his divine justice, through the torments of the lost, though
                  they be our nearest kindred."
               Poor Mrs. Barker, though generally so prompt in reply, was silent and submissive
                  under this authoritative admonition. Having no doubt of the truth of those
                  doctrines, she could not resist their application, and she shrunk back with
                  instinctive terror from that fiery gulf of everlasting torment and despair to
                  which all her kindred were so evidently predestined, but from which she had still
                  a hope of escape through the calling, election, and
                     predestination, fore-ordained and decreed before the world began,
                  and which, though absolute and unchangeable, still involved a necessity of church
                  ordinances, without which she could not be saved.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Parson Boreman and his predestinarian teachings represent a class of
                     ministers and ideas more common in past generations, and in remoter towns,
                     than among us. Whether those doctrines were true or false, this, at least,
                     may be said in their favor,—that under their prevalence the noblest traits
                     of human character were developed and cultivated. The boasted triumph of
                     what are termed more liberal views, should not be too much magnified until
                     their efficacy to produce equal or better results be proved.
               
               In this terrified and unhappy mood, and thinking little of mere temporal matters,
                  she neglected the household duties which she generally performed so well. Bang,
                  who had seen the arrival and departure of the major, towards whom he felt strong
                  dislike, was little disposed to overlook the uncomfortable results of his visit.
                  He said that, as the church had never done them any good in their best days, and
                  had kept out of the way in their worst days, he would thank them to keep away
                  altogether; and when they came again he should have a word to say.
               Accordingly, soon after, when the major had reported his proceedings to Parson
                  Boreman, and the parson, feeling compelled to do something in the business which
                  he had advocated, called upon Mrs. Barker, Bang bolted in, all begrimed and
                  sweating from the forge, and, with a familiar swagger, welcomed the parson, shook
                  hands, told him he was glad to see him looking so hearty, after so long a
                     time, asked "how he left the old woman and Lucy,—that is, Lucinda,—a
                  fine daughter that of yourn, Parson Boreman—not married yet, I s'pose—think she
                  might have offers enough—a fine girl like her—and why don't she come round this
                  way, and pay us a visit? Always liked Lucy; that is, Lucinda." And so he went on
                  with a pretended good-natured familiarity, more annoying and insulting than any
                  other treatment because so difficult to repel. At last he asked the minister if he
                  would take something to is wet his whistle, adding, "We don't keep nothing on
                  hand, now-a-days; but Bragly is as accommodating as ever." Parson Boreman, with
                  offended dignity, replied that he did not choose to take anything, adding, in a
                  censorious manner, that he should suppose he (Bang) had seen enough, and done
                  enough, and suffered enough, by rum, to quit it altogether.
               "So I have," says Bang, still more provoked by the minister's manner and
                  allusions; "only when I see an old friend like you, been away so long, I like to
                  treat him, for the sake of old lang syne. Here, Ax, take this pint bottle to
                  Bragly's, and tell him to fill it. You and I have drank together, parson, and it's
                  about time we should again. You haven't signed the pledge, I understand; and, as
                  for me, an old reprobate, bound to the
                  devil's kingdom come, any way, it's no matter what I do."
               If Mr. Boreman had had the good sense to depart immediately, or the magnanimity
                  and tact to conciliate Bang by acknowledging his fault in not supporting the
                  temperance cause, as he should have done, and declared himself ready to sign the
                  pledge, all would probably have been well, and he would have had the merit of
                  having saved a soul from death. Instead of this, he angrily replied that he
                  disapproved of strong drink; that he seldom took any, and only when he required
                  it; and that he trusted he was man enough to guard himself from excess in eating
                  or drinking, without any pledge.
               By this time, Ax, who little knew how fatal was the errand upon which he was sent,
                  had returned, and Bang, pouring out drams in a couple of glasses, set one before
                  the minister, saying: "Come, parson, drink to our good luck, as you did the
                  evening you married us. Here's to you and your old woman, and Lucy,—that is,
                  Lucinda. May she soon get a good husband, and have as good luck as we've had!"
                  Bang probably did not mean to drink when he sent for the rum; but he was now
                  excited by passion and swelling with bravado, and as he took in the fumes of the
                  tempting glass, forgetting his pledge, he raised it to his lips, and drained it to
                  the bottom. The minister, seeing no chance of introducing the business upon which
                  he came, took his leave, well aware that he had done no good, and perhaps half
                  aware that he had done harm.
               Dreadful and fatal was the harm of which his visit had been the occasion not the
                  cause. The pledge was violated. The charm was broken. Bang had once more tasted
                  the soul-poisoning cup, and all his furious appetites, so long nourished and so
                  long enchained, rose to complete mastery over his better resolutions. He emptied
                  the glass which the minister had refused to touch. He emptied the bottle. It was
                  again filled, and Bang was again a drunkard. "Behold the end of unsanctified
                  reform," said Parson Boreman to Major Murray; "the dog has returned," &c.
                  "Behold the end of sanctified meddlesomeness," said Aunt Deborah, when she heard
                  of the parson's remark.
               Since Bang's relapse he had become rather the passive and resigned slave of rum,
                  than the brawling and turbulent drunkard. None of the active energies of either
                  the human or brutal kind prevailed; and nothing but the low, grovelling appetite
                  of selfish gratification remained. He would perform any service for rum, but make
                  no exertion for any solid advantages. He would bear the grossest insult, and make
                  up the bitterest quarrel, for rum. He would lie, steal, or fight, for rum; and
                  would swallow the most nauseous compound, of which rum was an ingredient. Without
                  any actual vice, except the absence of every virtue or redeeming quality, he was a
                  most revolting example of entire subjection to base appetite. No doubt the soul
                  within him had struggled severely before it yielded to this degradation; and even
                  now it writhed in its place of torment, and gave utterance, through the drunkard's
                  lips, to self-execrations and blasphemies, superstitious fear, and heaven-defying
                  despair.
               It will be remembered that on our first glance at Bang's dwelling we noticed some
                  small signs of improvement, in reference to which some significant gestures passed
                  between Alek and Isaac, upon which we will here throw light.
               The universal custom of distributing gifts and good wishes on Christmas and New
                  Year's Day is by no means neglected in
                  Wolfsden; and among the young hearts made glad by pretty presents the families of
                  the deserving poor are not forgotten. Some savory cheer in the shape of mince-pies
                  and other culinary compounds, with a fat chicken, a spare-rib of pork, some
                  comfortable articles of dress, &c., had already found their way to Mrs.
                  Barker's chest, when, on Christmas eve, a knock was heard at the door, and a
                  figure of strange attire and unwieldly dimensions, enveloped in a shaggy
                  bear-skin, a high raccoon cap, and what seemed a beard of monstrous growth,
                  entered the kitchen. The action of the intruder was as strange as his figure.
                  Thrusting one hand into a bag hanging to his side, he drew forth a substantial
                  pair of boys' boots, which he tossed upon the floor, and growled, in a gruff
                  voice, "Ax." Thrusting the other hand into the opposite side, he drew out a pair
                  of girls' boots, and, throwing them with the others, he growled "Sue." Detaching
                  two bundles which hung round his neck, he tossed one towards Mrs. B., with the
                  uncomplimentary grunt of "Old Woman," and threw the other with some force towards
                  Bang, and then, turning round, took his departure. An immediate examination of the
                  presents so strangely brought was quite satisfactory. The boots for Ax and Sue
                  were found to be crammed with woolen yarn, and two or three sets of knitting-pins;
                  and the other bundles contained, one, a pair of second-hand trousers for Bang, the
                  condition of whose unmentionables had evidently prompted the charity, and the
                  other, sundry tokens of good-will to Mrs. B.
               The children were delighted, and, believing it a veritable visit from Santa Claus,
                  insisted upon taking their presents to bed with them. Bang received his in sullen
                  apathy. There were in him no emotions of gratitude, surprise, or shame which any
                  event could excite. His ever-craving appetite for rum, which had been for several
                  days ungratified, was now raging within him. Waiting till the children were
                  asleep, he groped to their bed, and, securing the boots of Susan, and providing
                  himself with a jug, he went to Bragly's store. It was growing late, Bragly's
                  customers had retired, and he was about to shut up. Throwing the boots on the
                  counter, and exhibiting the jug, Bang called for a gallon of rum. Boots were
                  current barter with Bragly, and the rum was furnished, and a paper of tobacco to
                  make up the balance, with which Bang proceeded home. Mrs. B. had not attempted to
                  prevent the act, knowing that it would be of no use. Bang proceeded, as usual, to
                  get drunk. His wife went to bed, as usual, with a sad heart; and Bragly probably
                  retired with a comfortable consciousness of having finished up a good day's
                  business with a good additional profit.
               Poor little Susan's disappointment, the next morning, may be imagined; but
                  retribution, though often slow, is sometimes sudden. A neighbor, calling at Bang's
                  that day, found out the facts and in the evening a big figure, in a bear-skin,
                  entered Bragly's store, and, seizing a pair of girl's boots which, hung upon a
                  string for sale, thrust them into his pocket, growling "Sue's boots," and
                  departed, Bragly not deeming it prudent to intercept his progress. Entering Bang's
                  house as unceremoniously as before, he threw down the boots, and, proceeding to a
                  corner where Bang sat half drunk, he seized the jug by the handle, and Bang by the
                  nose, and with a backward step retreated toward the door. Bang roared with pain.
                  His nose was swollen and tender with carbuncles, and his outcry showed plainly
                  that he had still one susceptible spot. The strange figure maintained his grip
                  till he had dragged Bang across the floor, and then, with a parting wring,
                     gruffly muttered, "Beware of Santa
                  Claus!" and departed, taking the jug, which was found next morning, emptied of its
                  contents, and standing on a log near the door. A neighbor, who called the next
                  day, found little Susan rejoicing in her restored boots, and Bang with a bandage
                  about his face, busy in mending the chinks of his dwelling. Nobody knows who
                  personated Santa Claus; but it was remarked by Ike to Alek, with a wink, which was
                  answered by a nod, that Bragly would probably  any future dealings with
                  Bang in the boot line.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               
                  
                     He said, "This will I do. I will pull down my barns, and build greater, and
                        will say to my soul, Eat, drink, and be merry." But god said, "THOU
                        FOOL."
                  
               
               SULTRY summer pours down intolerable day in Wolfsden. It is the hottest season of
                  many years. Corn-leaves curl and shrink; unmown grass turns to premature hay;
                  idle, dainty cows, and luxurious swine, seek cool shelter in shady pools. Sheep
                  stretch themselves upon the sod behind stone walls, and beneath wind-fallen trees.
                  Restless children escape from the hot school-room with pretence of replenishing
                  the water-pail from the distant spring, and loiter long in the grassy-meadow.
                  Their fingers are stained with ripe strawberries, betraying their truancy. The
                  schoolmistress winks sleepily at the transgression. There, in the green meadow,
                  gay grasshoppers sing away their sunny life, forgetful of the fabled counsel of
                  the frugal ant, who still toils on, laying up stores for future want. In vain the
                  tantalizing almanac predicts "sharp—lightning—and heavy showers—about—this time."
                  The prediction is spread, like a long net, through the calendar page, but catches
                  not a clap of thunder, nor a drop of rain, to save its credit. All signs fail.
               Parson Boreman moves in the matter. He cites Scripture proofs of like cases, and preaches a sermon upon
                  the drouth of Elijah the Tishbite, in the days of Ahab, showing there were dry
                  times in old times as in modern times, and from the same cause, namely, want of
                  rain. And when Elijah prophesied rain, the drouth ended; but not till Ahab had
                  sent seven times did a cloud like a man's hand appear, and then there was an
                  abundance of rain. Therefore Parson Boreman predicts rain when the drouth shall be
                  ended, and fortifies his position by the words of Ahab. To hasten this
                  consummation, he mentions the subject in his forenoon and afternoon prayer. Yet
                  the heavens relent not. Prediction and prayer must wait this fulfilment.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *It was on this occasion that George Bowler wrote with his pencil, on the
                     partition of the singers' seats, the following epigram, which, I am sorry to
                     confess, was remembered in Wolfsden longer than the sermon which occasioned
                     it: 
                        
                           "Our Parson makes his doctrine plain—
                           Dry seasons come from lack of rain.
                           Proceed, good parson, let us know
                           The source whence drouthy sermons flow."
                        
                     
                  
               
               Business is dull at Bragly's. Loafers lag at home. Empty bottles remain unfilled.
                  The gill-cup intermits its retail measure of cumulative misery. The grinders
                  cease, or slowly move, and tobacco remains unchewed. Trade is flat, and Bragly is
                  uneasy. One gets tired in a long time of doing nothing, and thinking nothing, and
                  being nothing.
               Bragly is prosperous in his vocation, yet his ambition is not fully satisfied.
                  Tedious leisure nourishes his discontent. His position is not prominent enough.
                  His merits are not duly appreciated in Wolfsden. Sixty years of shrewd and saving
                  thrift have gained him wealth, and why not honor and office? He has often
                  contrived to be nominated; but, though shrewdly arranging to have all his
                  partisans at the polls whom liberal drams and vague promises would purchase, he
                  has always been defeated. In his younger days he was elected ensign of the
                  Wolfsden Light Infantry, but, being twice superseded, he resigned without getting
                  a title. Once, in a thin town-meeting, by rallying his force unexpectedly, he was
                  nearly chosen representative. Since that time, he has waited in vain. He now
                  meditates the policy a more ostentatious style of living. A fine house, with
                  corresponding surroundings, will show that self-appreciation which challenges and
                  commands the consideration of others. Great men dwell in large houses, and this is
                  not only the sign, but often the source, of their greatness. Bragly will have a
                  great house. Such things are quickly done in Wolfsden, as elsewhere in Maine, by
                  those who have the ambition. A pine frame of two stories, covered with boards and
                  shingles and white paint, with plenty of windows and green blinds, makes an
                  imposing outside, which is for the public. The inside belongs to the owner, and
                  may be as unfinished and unfurnished as his head.
               He reviewed the selected site, and drove stakes at the corners. Their regular
                  appearance confirmed his choice. He proceeded to count the cost, and chuckled in
                  the prospect of cheap magnificence. Poor men, of whose farms he has mortgages,
                  must sell him timber at a low price. Thriftless but strong men will dig and lay
                  the foundations for little besides rum and tobacco, and that little he will pay in
                  refuse goods. Meanwhile, he must board them; but for this he has a stock of poor
                  salt beef and pickled fish. Drunken laborers are not difficult to feed nor to pay,
                  and will be quick customers for his garbage. Bragly understands business; his talents lie in that line. Sometimes he
                  philosophizes, but always in a vein corresponding to his vocation. Mankind, says
                  he, are divided into two classes. The upper class, who cheat; and the lower, who
                  are cheated. He plumes himself upon belonging to the upper class. Bragly is
                  aristocratic.
               In his mind's eye he sees his shingle palace already built. He sees himself its
                  proud proprietor. He looks upon himself with new respect. He will make himself
                  better known. He possesses wealth, and wealth will secure dignity. At least, he
                  can be justice of the peace—Solomon Bragly, ESQ. It shall go hard, but he will yet
                  be representative. Bragly is ambitious.
               But business must be minded; even genius must have tools. Bragly proceeds to count
                  up and catalogue their tools he can command.
               Bang was the nearest and first on the list. He had grown very seedy and shaky. He
                  was evidently on his last legs; but, with proper nursing, might last through this
                  service. Bragly's nursing always answers the purpose; that is, his own purpose. He
                  knows, by long experience, how to deal out his drams so as to get the greatest
                  possible amount of work. He calculated that this job would just about use up Bang,
                  and the contemplated result was not an unpleasant item. Besides the natural
                  antipathy which the rum-seller, like the cat, feels towards his victim, Bragly had
                  an old grudge against Bang. Many years ago, he had refused to vote for him, and
                  had uttered some contemptuous remark; and also, at the time of his brief
                  reformation, he had indulged in some severe reflections upon him. Bragly never
                  forgot nor forgave things of that sort. He has long been revenging himself. He
                  will now finish up his revenge, and finish off Bang.
               Herring Cove would furnish its quota of material to be used up in the enterprise.
                  There was a numerous shoal of the Herring tribe, whom Bragly had for many years
                  fed with vile bait, and dried and smoked with poisonous tobacco, and pickled with
                  fiery N. E. rum. These, by long possession, belonged to Bragly. He had caught them
                  in his net, and brought them up in his school. Scaly fish, at best, but Bragly
                  could use them with profit.
               Chadbourn, the shiftless mason, he safely reckoned upon; also some others, yet
                  hesitating in the road to ruin, but who he shrewdly guessed would come along with
                  the crowd. King Solomon, with all his wealth and wisdom, had no surer resources
                  for his temple than Bragly for his shingle palace.
               Bragly proceeded with fervor in his enterprise. Besides the cellar, a well was
                  necessary; for the old well always failed in a dry time, just when water was most
                  needed. Bang once said that Bragly had exhausted it in watering his rum. Now he
                  should pay for the sarcasm by digging a new one. A dry time is a good time to dig
                  a well, for water then obtained will hold out.
               And so he summoned Bang and Chadbourn to dig his well. Chadbourn was sometimes
                  called the sexton's clerk, for the sexton usually employed him to assist in
                  digging graves. Being the most reliable of the two, he was appointed
                  master-workman; and, beginning, on one side, of the well, placed Bang on the
                  other, and they proceeded to dig. Chadbourn's excavation, from his habit of
                  grave-digging, took the form of a parallelogram. Under the influence of his
                     morning dram, he worked fast and dug
                  deep. Bang copied the example of his leader, and dug a hole of like dimensions and
                  depth; and when Bragly, after an hour or two, came out with some visitors to see
                  the progress of the work, they were struck at seeing two deep graves in near
                  proximity. Bragly shuddered, but the feeling soon passed away. Thoughts of the
                  grave seldom disturbed Bragly, though he had led so many miserable victims
                  thither.
               The well progressed. The two parallelograms were merged in the wider circle, which
                  sunk deeper and deeper. Platforms were placed within the sides, and the earth was
                  tediously thrown out by progressive steps. Yet the work went on; the well still
                  deepened, and the diggers descended.
               Bragly's ambition sought for yet other developments. He meditated the chance of
                  elevating his position by a matrimonial alliance. His "old woman went off," for so
                  he spoke of his wife's death, a dozen years since, and left no incumbrance but a
                  boy, begotten in the likeness of Bragly, whom he had educated in his petty arts,
                  and sent into the world. So the old man was free to begin the world again. His
                  matrimonial experiences were not such as to stimulate him to a new venture, for
                  the sake of domestic bliss; but policy prompted a thought of other advantages to
                  be gained in that way.
               Lucinda Boreman, the minister's daughter, she of the slender waist and long curls,
                  the long-established belle of Wolfsden, was still in the market,—a precious
                  commodity, but with no customer. The thought was aspiring, but Bragly, who saw
                  himself the proud proprietor of his imaginary palace, and the justice of peace,
                  and representative yet to be, encouraged aspiring thoughts. It would be a fine
                  speculation tion, if a possible one. Lucinda would be an heiress when the parson
                  and wife should die, for Lucinda, who had lived so long without growing old, would
                  outlive everybody; and this, also, was Bragly's own plan of life. He was not
                  sixty, and when put in trim by the tailor was young again,—so he judged, and with
                  some reason. His still, sly, spider life had not worn him much. Such folks live
                  long.
               By soft approaches Bragly resolved to win his way. In such affairs nature and love
                  teach the young,—policy and craft, the old. Nature and love are the best teachers,
                  but policy and craft are often unexpectedly successful. Bragly's expectations were
                  preposterous; but expectations equally preposterous have been realized.
               Religion would serve as a stepping-stone to his ambition, He thought it was often
                  so employed. Bragly reflected upon the different sorts, that he might select that
                  most easily put on, and best adapted to his purposes. A genteel, aristocratic
                  religion would suit him best. Bragly had hitherto been non-committal on religion,
                  but might easily step on that side of the fence. A life of utter depravity and
                  vileness is thought to be fair preparation for conversion; whereas the practice of
                  morality and virtue generally hardens the impenitent in unbelief.
               Bragly became serious. He attended church regularly, in white cravat and kid
                  gloves. His little cunning eye, and puckered contriving mouth, practised solemn
                  grimaces. He laid in a stock of Bibles, and "Calls to the Unconverted," and urged
                  them upon his customers. He mentioned to the tract distributor his willingness to
                  take charge of a few, and circulate them. His devotional deportment attracted
                  attention. Deacon Murray called, and bought a pound of tea; Bragly (by mistake, of course) handed back too much
                  change, and, when called to rectify it, remarked upon his habit of this sort of
                  blunder. All this was set down to concern of mind, which Bragly was striving to
                  conceal and quench. The deacon watched the progress of Bragly's case closely, and
                  mentioned it to the parson. Bragly's tactics thus far succeed.
               The work of the well goes on. Deep in the earth the diggers delve. Three, four,
                  five successive platforms descend the subterranean profound, and are manned by
                  gaunt and grim wretches, whose muscles, stimulated by infernal potions, labor
                  incessantly, tossing the mud and stones from the cold, wet bottom, to the hot, dry
                  surface, At length another contrivance is adopted. The platforms are removed, and
                  a huge windlass, with long projecting arms, is erected across the yawning depth,
                  by which empty buckets descend, to return laden with heavy freight. Far down in
                  the dark abyss, the bulky bodies of Bang and Chadbourn seem like pigmies, compared
                  with the gaunt laborers who sweat at the windlass above.
               It is a fearful thing to look down from the dizzy brink into the profound depth.
                  What if the solid wall of earth should suddenly bury the diggers alive, perhaps in
                  a living grave! Such things have been. Or, if the brink should fall from beneath
                  the beholders' feet, precipitating their bodies, a mangled mass, upon the devoted
                  wretches beneath! Let long timbers and strong planks be laid around, to prevent
                  the catastrophe; and let the diggers hasten their work, that the danger may be
                  sooner past. Alas! their danger, and ruin, and death, may not be so escaped; for,
                  though the earth remain innocent of their blood, yet their souls' life is buried
                  and suffocated in a lingering death in the living tomb of their besotted and
                  beastly bodies. Bragly's tools perish, but his tactics succeed.
               He made an incidental call on Parson Boreman, and suggested the idea of a tract
                  depository at his store, and offered to take upon himself the trouble of
                  distribution. He was happy to hear that the missionary had been so successful, in
                  spite of the evil-minded opposition he had met (referring to Harry), and regretted
                  that he had neglected handing in his mite, which he would thank the parson to
                  receive; and taking out a well-filled pocket-book, he presented a five-dollar
                  bill. He would also be pleased to subscribe for a missionary paper. The parson,
                  though partly prepared for the miracle by Deacon Murray's communication, was
                  astonished at such liberality from such a source. He had evidently overlooked and
                  under-estimated one of the treasures of his parish. He atoned by unaccustomed
                  affability for past neglect. He invited Bragly to remain for tea. The
                  ever-charming Lucinda was present, and bestowed her ever-ready and practised
                  smiles. The parson was plainly pleased with the convert. Perhaps Lucinda might not
                  disdain the conquest. Bragly's tactics are wonderful.
               His well, like his profound calculations, grows deeper and deeper. Forty feet have
                  the diggers descended, and yet deeper must they delve; for Bragly says, with
                  authority, that he will have no half-way work. Let him hasten, for his tools begin
                  to fail. Bang digs, and totters; yet still he digs, for Bragly's potions still
                  stimulate nature's expiring energies to extremest efforts. Chadbourn is pale. His
                     eyes are red, his lips are blue, his
                  visage is haggard, yet he and the other wretches labor on. Bragly will have no
                  half-way work,—his work and his tools will soon be finished.
               Materials were wanted, as well as tools, and Bragly had a fine lot of timber in
                  his eye. It was on Dick Freeport's farm. Dick's farm was just beyond the
                  school-house, before referred to. His father gave it to him several years before,
                  and he settled with a good wife and good prospects, for his farm was an excellent
                  tract of good soil, besides the valuable lot of timber; and, his father dying
                  shortly after, he received a portion of the remaining property, with the charge of
                  his mother, whose discreet and careful aid was a valuable acquisition, for,
                  besides other treasures, Dick's children multiplied amazingly. But his chance of
                  prosperity and happiness was soon clouded, for he gradually fell into Bragly's
                  hands. Bragly's store was nearer than any other, and Dick could not withstand the
                  temptation of unlimited credit. Drunkenness was not his vice,— at least, not at
                  first; but he would drink a sociable glass, and then he would buy whatever Bragly
                  recommended,—for Bragly was ostentatious of his accommodating disposition and
                  liberal or edit. Dick bought largely, scarcely asking prices; and gave notes on
                  interest for large balances, at each quarterly settlement.
               Accumulated notes, with interest, had long ago placed him in Bragly's power, and
                  now was his time to take advantage of it. He knew the value of the timber-lot,—it
                  would of itself be a moderate independence to a judicious manager,—but Bragly
                  resolved to have it at his own price. He understood business, and had his victim
                  in his power. With this acquisition he could build a very large house.
               He proposed the matter to Freeport, who, in spite of his thriftlessness, was much
                  disconcerted. He had long been troubled, with a consciousness of accumulating
                  debts, but soothed himself with the promise of paying off with a portion of his
                  timber. Bragly now proposed to take the whole at a price which would but half
                  satisfy his claim, leaving him still hopelessly in debt; and the ruinous
                  proposition could not be refused, for Bragly spoke peremptorily, as Freeport had
                  not heard him speak before. He saw that Bragly had a rough side, as well as a
                  smooth one. He stammered some plea of temporary delay, and wisely, or luckily,
                  went home and laid the whole case before his mother. She was astonished at his
                  large indebtedness to Bragly, and distressed at the sacrifice proposed. She sent
                  him immediately to consult Squire Chinby, the old friend of the family, who had
                  advised settling Richard on this farm, and had himself drawn the writings. Richard
                  repaired at once to Squire Chinby, and stated the whole case,—his manner of
                  dealing with Bragly, his large indebtedness, and Bragly's imperative and ruinous
                  proposition. Chinby's deep black eyes were filled with calm indignation. He saw
                  through the matter in a moment; and showed Richard his folly, and Bragly's
                  knavery, by producing his own domestic accounts, which fell far short of
                  Richard's, though his family was larger, and more abundantly supplied. Richard
                  asked, despondingly, what he should do about it.
               "Do!" said Chinby; "why, let Bragly eat you up, since he has got you in his jaws.
                  It is such as you that he lives upon, and the sooner he disposes of his fodder the
                  better; for it may diminish the breed of fools."
               Chinby sometimes spoke roughly; but Richard was too much depressed to be angry,
                  and, besides, he had a strong impression pression, from old experience, that his help, if anywhere, was in Chinby.
               Chinby proceeded with his reproaches and assurances of irremediable ruin, and
                  pictured the coming misery of his family, till poor Richard was in despair. "But,"
                  said he, "it may as well be so now as at another time. If you were free from his
                  clutches to-day, he, or some one like him, would grasp you to-morrow." Richard,
                  caught at the implied suggestion of freedom to-day, and solemnly protested that,
                  if he could be put in a way of relief, he would pay for his folly by future
                  self-denial and hard work, till the debt should be cancelled, and would never be
                  such a fool again. Chinby heard him through, and told him that he would go with
                  him to Bragly, and see what could be done about it.
               It was not easy for a rogue to maintain his position when brought to account by
                  Chinby. Duplicity shrunk before his unquestionable truth and uprightness, and
                  conscious villany saw itself thoroughly exposed in view of his keen eye and clear
                  understanding.
               Besides, Chinby had the reputation of legal knowledge, which had been, in several
                  cases, of signal service to justice. Bragly knew, and was as well prepared for all
                  this, as a mean, prevaricating knave can ever be prepared for the ordeal of stern,
                  scrutinizing justice. He had managed his affairs with sufficient skill to defy, or
                  at least evade, legal inquiry; and, divining Chinby's purpose, he resolved to
                  vindicate his own position in the upper class of mankind, by opposing bold
                  effrontery to Chinby's interference.
               In this he was moderately successful. His brassy resolution was not quite
                  sufficient, but he took refuge in stolid doggedness, as impenetrable as the hide
                  of the rhinoceros. He refused to exhibit his accounts, saying they were settled,
                  and that his only claim on Freeport consisted of promissory notes. Chinby was
                  compelled to admit Bragly's boast that he understood business. The utmost he could
                  do was to induce him to give twice what he had proposed for the timber; which sum,
                  being still less than half its value, but just covered Richard's notes. Having
                  obtained this concession, Chinby proposed that the business should be finished
                  immediately. Richard would have delayed, in hopes of better terms; but Chinby now
                  took Bragly's side, and insisted upon a prompt settlement. He would not be a party
                  to any trifling. Richard reluctantly consented. The papers were soon drawn and
                  duly authenticated, by which, "for value received and acknowledged, said Freeport
                  conveyed to said Bragly, his heirs and assigns forever, all his right, title, and
                  interest, in the timber on said lot, situated as aforesaid," &c. &c.
               The document was drawn with lawyer-like circumlocution, verbosity, and tautology,
                  and exchanged for Richard's notes, and a receipt in full of all demands, with
                  impressive ceremony. Chinby was grave and decisive as a judge, Freeport as
                  spiritless and passive as a convict, and Bragly as business-like and blandly
                  ferocious as an executioner. Chinby bade Bragly good-evening, and retired, with
                  Freeport. "Now," said he, "we will go and see your mother, and while on the way
                  please to lay up my counsel. You are now clear of Bragly,—keep clear of him, and
                  keep clear of debt. It is the only safe and pleasant way of life. Debt is the
                  destroyer of more happiness than all other causes combined. It rides like a
                  nightmare on the necks of thousands, who all their life long are struggling to
                  hold their heads up, in spite of the depressing weights. If you break every other commandment, keep
                  this, 'Owe no man anything.'
               "Say nothing about this transaction, and you will save your timber. When Bragly
                  proceeds to meddle with it, your mother will send him a note which I will prepare
                  for her, and which will stop his proceedings. You may pay the amount of whatever
                  real value you have received to other families whom he has defrauded and ruined,
                  for otherwise your hands cannot be clean. It is bad to be in Bragly's debt, but
                  worse to adopt his principles."
               Richard's mother was gratified with the arrival of her old friend and adviser. She
                  was for the first time made acquainted with the fact that she, as residuary
                  legatee, was the real proprietor of the timber, Richard's "right, title, and
                  interest," being nothing at all; for Chinby, who drew the deed of gift, and knew
                  Richard's simplicity, which might make him the prey of sharpers, had, with the
                  father's approbation, inserted a clause reserving the timber. Richard knew nothing
                  of it, and never could have been injured by it; for his right as heir would be
                  good on the death of his mother, and she, even if she knew her right, would not
                  interfere in any fair transaction of her son. Bragly's tactics were defeated; but
                  as yet he knew it not. Why should he be told till it should become necessary?
                  Troublesome tidings are best delayed. Who can say, amid the casualties of life and
                  death, that they need ever be known?
               Bragly's well is sunk to a fearful depth. So are his tools, the diggers. But the
                  work is not yet done. The well must be walled with stone. It is necessary to keep
                  the power of work in his human machines till their work is done.
               The drouth is ended. Parson Boreman's prediction is accomplished complished. A
                  chill wind comes from the east; leaves flutter and rustle; swallows fly low; swine
                  gather up sticks and straws and carry them to their beds; geese and ducks smooth
                  and oil their plumage; sheep and horses ranging in distant pastures draw nearer
                  home; signs multiply; the night is dark, and there is a sound of abundance of
                  rain.
               In Bang's dwelling a severer storm rages. Sounds of violence, of raving fury, of
                  supplicating terror, of fierce execration, howlings as of madness, mailings as of
                  anguish, frantic yells and sobbings of despair. Such scenes have often been there,
                  but now the dire furies rage more fiercely than ever. The livelong night the
                  terrible tumult prevails.
               
                  Delirium tremens, the most horrible precursor of
                  the horrible death of the drunkard, is upon Bang. His maniac eyes glare upon
                  imaginary monsters. Huge, crawling serpents surround and encircle him. Demons
                  guard every door, and grin with ghastly malignity at every window. A fearful
                  shape, meditating some dire purpose, sits in the chimney-corner. It has the burly
                  body and sits in the sullen posture of the long-murdered and long-remembered
                  Jotham. The head is swollen with horrid deformity, and ever and anon shakes as
                  with some settled purpose of revenge. Bang shakes with terror and raves with
                  alternate defiance. His eyes turn restlessly in every direction upon horrible
                  enemies. He seeks to shun the monsters, and rushes violently in various directions
                  for escape. He foams with fury, he yells with terror, he groans with anguish. The
                  rain pours down in torrents without, but not enough to drown the terrible storm
                  within.
               In vain the terrified wife seeks to soothe him with entreaties and cries. The
                  fearful children hide in remote closets, and tremble and moan piteously. The live-long night
                  doles out its successive hours of misery.
               When the morning comes, the fit has somewhat subsided, and Bang lies in the sleep
                  of exhaustion; yet his convulsed and starting nerves show the agony that racks his
                  frame. The fires of hell, self-kindled, as ever, torture and consume him.
               Bragly has not passed a pleasant night. Something has murdered sleep. His thoughts
                  have taken an uncomfortable turn. Conscience troubles him, or rather that feeling
                  which is the poor substitute for conscience in base minds,—the conscience which
                  never suggests moral dissuasives from evil, but often darkly hints terrors of
                  retribution. He revolves the unwelcome thought that he is near sixty. How short
                  seems the last ten years! He will soon be seventy, soon eighty, soon be dead!
               A strange impression that this inevitable destiny may come, without even this
                  reprieve, haunted him. It had unaccountably done so at other times of late.
                  Remembered omens and superstitious forerunners thickly forced themselves upon him.
                  The two deep graves with which his well was begun, strange circumstance! He had
                  heard it remarked that when old men build houses, and lay new plans of life, they
                  soon die. His thoughts came unbidden, and obstinately remained. He could not rest.
                  He rose and lighted a candle, and proceeded to inspect his accounts. His eye fell
                  upon Freeport's conveyance. Even the thought of this gainful transaction failed to
                  cheer him. He opened and examined the paper more attentively. It had many useless
                  words, but lacked some which would make it more satisfactory. It did not even
                  claim or represent the timber, of which it conveyed Freeport's "right, title, and
                  interest," to be his property, nor did it guarantee against other claims. Why did
                  he not notice this at the time? A self-abasing acknowledgment of his awe of Chinby
                  was his only excuse. He could not satisfy himself, and laid aside the document,
                  and vainly tried to dismiss the discontent. But even this discontent relieved him,
                  by taking place of the worse bugbears of his grovelling conscience.
               The rain poured down upon the roof. The winds whistled dismally about his
                  dwelling. Sharp sounds, like yells and shrieks, mingled with the storm. He looked
                  from the window in the direction of Bang's house, and divined the cause. Some
                  obscure gleams of light shone through the broken panes and chinks, showing unrest
                  within. The distinct clamor showed the usual cause. Bragly muttered about the
                  annoyance of such neighbors so near. His new mansion should not be disgraced by
                  such surroundings. Bang and his family should go to Herring Cove, and his
                  unsightly hovels be demolished. He resolved with the undebating decision of a
                  Russian despot, for he relied upon his power. He returned to his bed and slept,
                  but disquietly, and rose in the early morning in morose mood.
               He heard knockings, and, on opening his door, three drenched and shivering
                  wretches appeared. A woman, haggard and braised, the revolting image of
                  wretchedness, leading in each hand a younger heir of misery. It was Susan, the
                  wife of Bang. Such was her extremity that now she came even to Bragly, the
                  instrument of all her desolation, for present help,—a little help, shelter,
                  warmth, and food, till Bang would let them go home, and seek other help.
               The Russian despot, in his angry pride, might have been as auspiciously approached by the meanest and most
                  despised of his serfs. The application brought no relief to Susan, but it relieved
                  Bragly, for it gave opportunity of exploding his pent-up discontent.
               "What are you here for? You're a pretty object to come draggling in the mud with
                  your brats! D'ye think I'll have such critters in my premises?
                     Freezing, do you say?—A likely story, in dog-days! Wet and
                     cold?—Well, go home and dry yourselves! Afraid of Bang?—You
                  look more like frightening him! No wood nor vittels?—The more shame
                  for you! Go to the town,—I owe you nothing!"
               "O, Mr. Bragly!" implored Susan, do not drive us off so, or a terrible judgment
                  will come on you! I know it! The Lord tells me so. You have worked Bang for weeks,
                  and given his family nothing. It is your rum that has done it all! Now, if you
                  will help me and the children a little, to keep us from dying, I will forgive you.
                  If you don't, we shall die, and God will punish you!"
               Susan had a little, though but a little, of her old spirit left. Bragly quailed a
                  little, only a little, under it. He belonged to the upper class; it is the
                  prerogative of aristocracy to be unmoved by the complaints and appeals of the
                  poor.
               But Bragly saw, in the hazy distance, some one approaching. He wished to be rid of
                  the dismal group before him, and told Susan to be off, to go home, and he would
                  send some wood and some victuals; and with this promise, which, if he meant to
                  redeem it at all, would tax him but with the smallest and meanest portion, he shut
                  the door in Susan's, face, and peeped from the window to see that she departed.
                  Susan evidently was not encouraged by his surly promise. She lingered a moment,
                  but her shivering and moaning children urged the mother's instincts to her
                  extremest efforts. If she could only hold out to get to Colonel Bowler's, she
                  could get relief. It was more than a mile through the muddy road of the woods, and
                  the wind and rain beat pitilessly upon her exhausted frame, and upon her cold and
                  hungry children. But there was no other resource; and Bragly saw her trailing
                  slowly off-home, as he supposed, and he felt a pleasure in the success of his
                  tactics.
               The approaching figure was Chadbourn's; not a much more creditable visitor than
                  those just departed. But Bragly could dispose of him more conveniently; and,
                  besides, he had still a use for him. So he supplied him with the soul-expelling
                  liquid, and seated him in his shop.
               Suddenly the storm lulled; the wind abated; the clouds parted. It looked
                  light,—almost sunshine. Bragly threw open his shop door, and walked out into his
                  front yard, debating of the weather, and the expediency of sending for his workmen
                  to draw the stone and wall up his well. Bang just then made his appearance out of
                  doors, looking about as usual, and Bragly resolved to send nothing to Susan, who
                  had evidently told too big a story. As Bang approached, he appeared to step more
                  briskly, and his countenance was more animated than usual. His blood-shot eyes did
                  not hang heavily, but gleamed with sharp brightness. Bragly supposed him just
                  stimulated with a strong morning dram, and rejoiced that there was still so much
                  material in him to be used up; for his plans were expanding, and he needed more
                  tools.
               Bang approaches, and beckons as though he has something to tell. Bragly has heard
                  Susan's story, and would like to hear
                  Bang's, and therefore meets him half way. Bang familiarly lays his hand on
                  Bragly's shoulder, and begins to talk incoherently of Jotham.
               "'Twas I killed him, ten years ago! I killed him dead, dead, dead! But he came
                  again last night! He brought ten thousand devils with him! He sat in the corner
                  all night, and the devils kept round the doors and windows;—but I have just killed
                  him again, and drove them all off! They have carried off the old woman and
                  children with 'em; but will be glad to let 'em go again,—ha! ha! ha!—hurrah for
                  Bang!"
               Insanity is in his eye. His familiar grasp tightens upon Bragly's shoulder, who
                  tries to shake him off. But the effort only excites Bang, who grasps like his own
                  iron vice. The returning fit comes more violently upon him. He glances wildly
                  about; and Bragly, alarmed, in vain endeavors to free himself.
               "There they come!" exclaims the frenzied Bang. "Jotham and his devils! Ho! keep
                  'em off, off, off!" and he whirled Bragly about, so as to interpose his body
                  between himself and the visionary objects of his terror. His maniac strength is
                  that of a giant. Bragly's struggles are impotent in his 'grasp, as he whirls him
                  about to keep off the demon crew. They are not far from the well, and in their
                  struggles upon the slippery ground are approaching nearer to it; but the demons
                  are in the other direction, and Bang sees not the danger of the well.
               With increasing terror, Bragly tries to draw Bang another way; but his struggling
                  efforts and loud appeals are lost in the stronger power and louder howls and
                  shouts of Bang, while each moment brings them nearer to the dreadful abyss. Bragly
                  screams to Chadbourn for help; and he comes to the door, in maudlin drunkenness,
                  incapable of giving aid, or even understanding the danger.
               "I say-er," he drawls, "wot you-er doin', wrastlin' there for? Goit, oldBang!
                  Goit, busters! Wot makes yer holler-so? Come, takeadrink! Goit,—hic!"
               The struggle ceases not. The sweat of deadly terror drips from Bragly's pallid
                  face and quivering limbs. They are upon the slippery margin of the well. The
                  agonizing screams of Bragly mingle with the maniac howls of Bang, and are answered
                  from the echoing woods.
               Susan hears, and hurries on, for she fears the pursuit of Bang. But the dreadful
                  screams and yells have suddenly ceased. Only the driving rain and moaning winds
                  disturb nature's silence.
               Pale, drenched, shivering, exhausted, staggering, Susan reached Colonel Bowler's,
                  with her wretched children, and briefly told her story. Pitying eyes and ready
                  hands received the sufferers. Susan was quickly placed in bed, and her trembling
                  limbs chafed and warmed; and she was refreshed with nourishment, as fast as safety
                  allowed. The children required less cautious treatment, and in an hour were bright
                  and active as ever.
               Ike started off to see about Bang,—chiefly that Susan might be satisfied. Arriving
                  at the miserable dwelling, a scene of wild disorder was shown. All doors were
                  open, all windows broken. Crockery, clothing, furniture, and rubbish, were mingled
                  and hurled in every direction. The chimney-corner, where Bang saw the spectral
                  Jotham, was filled and battered with various heavy missiles. But no living being
                  remained in the house. Looking in the direction of Bragly's, Ike saw Chadbourn near the well, in loud
                  consultation with the deaf old housekeeper in the door, each shouting question and
                  reply, but neither understanding the other, while Chadbourn pointed to the well
                  with earnest gesticulations. With some misgivings of what way have happened, Ike
                  approached Chadbourn, who, still drunk, pointed to the well, and exclaimed,
               "Theretheybe, goners,—gone-downers! Tumbledin, all of'm, wrastlin'!
                  Bangandallof'em, wrastlin'! Old Braglyandallof'em, wrastlin'!"
               Ike placed a plank and looked over the edge. Down fifty feet in the murky depth,
                  the straining eye indistinctly saw two bodies lying across, and partly covered
                  with mud and water. The dreadful truth of Chadbourn's incoherent explanation was
                  apparent. People were summoned, and the lifeless bodies of Bang and Bragly, the
                  mutual destroyers and avengers, the aristocrat and plebeian, the tactician and the
                  man of muscle, each bereft of their power and levelled now, were drawn up and laid
                  side by side.
               There was a great concourse of people at the funeral;—curiosity attracts more
                  strongly than sympathy. Parson Boreman preached with his usual eloquence, from the
                  text, "Man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets." He
                  proved at length, from Scripture and nature, that all men must die, sooner or
                  later; that no man knoweth the time or manner of his death, or who among us shall
                  follow next, &c. &c. The widowed Susan being not yet enough recovered to
                  attend the funeral, Bang's present condition was pretty plainly assumed as
                  anything but enviable, and his eternal ruin plainly shown to be from his habitual
                  neglect of Sabbath ordinances; and not, as some may have supposed, from neglect of
                  week-day duties, and indulgence of every-day drunkenness.
               Bragly's state of mind not being fully known to the minister, his fate was left
                  somewhat dubious; though the fact of his recently awakened interest in missionary
                  and tract operations gave consoling grounds of hope. From which it may be interred
                  that the aristocrat yet maintains his ascendancy, in spite of the leveller Death!
                  Bragly's five dollars to the missionary fund was a lucky investment. His tactics
                  are an example.
               Not having room for a synopsis of the sermon, we can only hope that the parson may
                  be persuaded to gratify the public, and console perambulating mourners, by
                  publishing it, either separately, or as an appendix to the treatise of the lost
                  tribes.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               WE left Alek on the road by the banks of the Saco. If the reader expects to find
                  him there still, then we have failed properly to represent his onward energy. Alek
                  is in New York. He has been there three months. He knows things not understood in
                  Wolfsden. His eyes are wider awake, his step brisker, his attitude bolder and more
                  self-confident.
               He does not slouch along the sidewalks jostling the passengers, nor stand in the
                  gutters to give them room. He does not pause to read the Valentines, or gaze at
                  the caricatures in the shop-windows. He does not follow the strutting military
                  feathered bipeds, whom Plato excluded from his definition of man; nor loiter near
                  the organ-grindler, nor mingle with the simpletons about the mock-auction stands.
                  The Jews of Chatham-street do not pull him in at their doors to buy second-hand
                  finery and gilded jewelry; nor the Bowery boys familiarly address him with schemes
                  of raffling and lottery speculations; nor the frail women accost him with their
                  enticements. When he moves, it is with the manner of one who has business to do;
                  and when he stops, it is because he has arrived at the place to do it.
               Alek found business. Prompt men can always find something to do in New York. Those
                  of small ambition may enter menial employments. Those who have a knack at shrewd
                  tricks can live by their wits. Men of higher capacities, and better energies, can
                  quickly find or make a way to respectable employments. Alek was not avaricious nor
                  sensual; his motive was not to hoard money, nor to spend it in vulgar
                  gratifications. To learn men, manners, business, and the philosophy of life, he
                  counted the best present use of the new school to which he came. A moderate salary
                  satisfied him, and with it he gained a character for energy and reliability which
                  would be a sufficient stepping-stone to another position when he should
                  choose.
               Alek's access to employment was, however, made more easy and speedy by Harry's
                  introductory letter to his uncle, the merchant.
               Mr. Samuel Boynton was a merchant of the old-fashioned sort, high-minded,
                  methodical, somewhat formal and self-opinionated, and having faith in the old
                  institutions and doctrines in which he was moulded. He believed in Fast-day
                  sermons and Fourth-of-July orations, in the piety of his church and patriotism of
                  his party. He was nobly educated for times long since gone by, and he still
                  nourished and brooded old notions, as the careful hen broods her eggs, after they
                  are long addled. But his practices, prompted by the instincts of a benevolent
                  heart, were often at variance with the policy and feeling of the society and party
                  to which he was allied, and in whose support he was compelled to suppress many
                  misgivings. He was life-member of the A. B. C. F. M., and yet contributed to the
                  Union Missionary Society, which condemns the A. B. C. F. M. At his table sound
                  doctors of divinity sometimes met radical reformers, and would find the
                     Boston Liberator side by side with the New York Observer. His toleration
                  satisfied neither party. Conservatives saw that his influence encouraged
                  disorganizing principles, and radicals complained that conservatives were able to
                  claim so liberal a man as one of their party. Yet neither ventured to remonstrate;
                  for Mr. B. was not a man to bear dictation.
               Alek chanced to arrive in New York during the "anniversary week," celebrated by
                  religious and other associations; and, accepting Mr. Boynton's cordial invitation,
                  found himself, at the dinner-hour, seated at a more sumptuous table, with a finer
                  and better-dressed company, than he had before seen; for those who attend the
                  anniversaries are generally the most respectable of their respective societies,
                  and of those some of the most distinguished were always allotted to Mr. Boynton's
                  hospitality; such matters being mostly arranged by private understanding of the
                  leaders, though the entertainer is also entitled to invite whom he chooses. This
                  privilege Mr. Boynton had exercised by inviting not only Alek, but also another
                  person, more prominent, though much less congenial to the general taste and
                  feelings of the guests. This was no other than the noted Mr. Paradox, the
                  incendiary leader and agitating apostle of one of the most radical, subversive,
                  and formidable associations of the time.
               No other person had so early in life engaged so large a share of public attention,
                  or been the object of so earnest and opposite feelings. Scarcely a paper in the
                  United States was issued without an article or paragraph relating to him, of which
                  a large proportion expressed the severest condemnation and abhorrence; the
                  soundest and most patriotic of the political and religious papers being most
                  frequent and earnest in their anathemas, which, indeed, was the surest proof of
                  their soundness and patriotism.
               Mr. Paradox well deserved all the abuse he received; for he had done more to
                  overthrow and destroy the deference and veneration attached to the time-hallowed
                  institutions which divines and patriots support, and by which they profit, than
                  any man or demon since the days of Dr. Faustus; having, besides his individual
                  influence, opened sluices of public thought and feeling, through which an
                  increasing current of opinion still rushes, endangering the sacred foundations of
                  church and state.
               By the side of Mr. Paradox sat no less a personage than the Rev. Dr. Paragon, so
                  celebrated for his learning, his piety, and his position, being the acknowledged
                  head of the only true and infallible religious sect in the land, all the other
                  ninety-nine being clearly gone astray, and corrupted with the most palpable and
                  damning errors.
               Thus, by chance or contrivance, were these champions of their respective fields
                  placed in proximity, and compelled to the interchange of courteous salutations.
                  Dr. Paragon being much the oldest man, and also an official dignitary, the option
                  of debate properly belonged to him; and therefore Mr. Paradox, who is always the
                  most civil when he meditates most mischief, abstained from provocation, and joined
                  blandly in general remarks. But, under the circumstances, collision was
                  unavoidable; for the reverend doctor was surrounded by friends, who expected the
                  onset, which his position would not allow him to decline, and, therefore,
                  gathering up his learning, dignity, and eloquence, he proceeded to an overpowering
                  onslaught upon his adversary.
               He began by showing the disorganizing character of all radical movements, which, originating outside of
                  the church are unauthorized by Scripture, and necessarily hostile to divine
                  authority. He instanced the dangerous character of abolitionism, which he
                  pronounced false in its principles and fatal in its tendencies. He proved from
                  Moses and St. Paul the scriptural sanction of slavery, as an institution appointed
                  by God and approved by his apostles; and testified to the general, piety of the
                  slaveholders, which he favorably contrasted with the want of reverence for the
                  Scripture, the Sabbath, and the church, shown by leading abolitionists, some of
                  whose attacks he specified and repelled; and also showed that his own sect were
                  faithful to their duty in preaching the Gospel, in whose light slavery, and all
                  other evils, would finally be overcome. He also claimed for himself and brethren,
                  north and south, that they were the only true abolitionists, inasmuch as they
                  sincerely mourned and prayed over the evil, and patiently waited God's time for
                  its removal; which might, perhaps, have already been, accomplished, but for the
                  mischievous agitation of professed abolitionists.
               The dignified company were pleased with the ability and approved the severity of
                  their champion's discourse; and even Mr. Paradox, by the respectful attention he
                  gave, showed that he appreciated the honor of being demolished by so distinguished
                  a divine. Yet, true to his name and nature, he must needs reply, and that, too, in
                  at manner both perplexing and provoking.
               He said that he would not dispute with so learned a critic upon interpretations of
                  Scripture, but thought that, if its mission in the world was to establish slavery,
                  mankind might have managed to get along without its light, since many heathen
                  nations, unaided by revelation, had adopted the institution. He apprehended that,
                  with such interpretations, the Bible would lose its authority, in reflecting
                  minds. "As," said he, "it seems already to be disregarded by yourself and
                  brethren, since you mourn and pray for the removal of an institution which it
                  sanctions, as appointed by God himself, and approved by his apostles.'" Upon the
                  doctor's claim for himself and friends to be the only true abolitionists, he
                  expressed pleasure in hearing of the progress of truth in such quarters; and, as
                  to the imputation of having put back God's time for doing the work, he replied by
                  a modest doubt of his ability to control the purposes of Omnipotence, even if he
                  had the wish to do so.
               Notwithstanding the conciliatory manner of the reply, the reverend doctor was not
                  mollified, and answered, quickly, "Sir, you misrepresent my views. I was
                  discussing the abstract question concerning the fundamental
                  principles of the relation, whether it be necessarily such a malum in se as may not exist salva fide et salva ecclesia."
               "Sir," replied Mr. Paradox, "as to misrepresenting your views, I cannot do that
                  knowingly, for they are to me incomprehensible; but, as it seems they relate only
                  to abstractions, they do not concern me, for my business is with realities."
               Such was the irreverence with which Mr. Paradox sometimes replied to the most
                  revered dignitaries. Alek, who had been but a few hours in New York, and whose
                  rustic reason was as yet unused to the refined light in which matters are judged
                  in the city, supposed the reverend doctor vanquished in the debate; but the
                  evident disapprobation with which the remarks of Mr. Paradox were received by the
                  clerical company, and the deference and admiration with which the doctor as
                  listened to, showed that an opposite
                  opinion prevailed. The matter was soon set right before the public by the
                  following paragraph in a popular daily paper:
               "The Rev. Doctor Paragon, while dining with a company of distinguished divines,
                  was bitterly assailed and denounced by the notorious Mr. Paradox, who had, by some
                  means, obtained admission. The venerable divine, in the most gentlemanly and
                  Christian manner, rebuked the incendiary fanatic, and, with the ready eloquence
                  which marks his private conversation, no less than his public performances,
                  vindicated Christianity and the church from his amputations, and exposed the
                  reckless folly and impiety of the fanatic crew who are endeavoring to excite the
                  public mind, and disturb the peace of society. If these proceedings are persisted
                  in it may become a duty to arrest them by summary process. Let the outraged public
                  see that order and decency are preserved in their meeting at the Tabernacle this
                  evening."
               Alek, to whom such views of life were new, resolved to attend the meeting at the
                  Tabernacle, where, notwithstanding the suggested summary process, a very large
                  audience assembled. As the addresses proceeded, it soon became evident, by the
                  increasing uproar, which, commencing with hisses and stamping, soon grew to shouts
                  and yells, that many had come, according to the suggestion of the papers, to
                  preserve order and decency. But, notwithstanding their efforts, the most violent
                  disorder soon manifested itself, until, at length, a gallant and distinguished
                  captain (whose patriotism has since been politically rewarded) sprang upon the
                  platform occupied by the speakers, and, brandishing a formidable weapon, solemnly
                  swore, by the powers celestial and infernal, that the speeches should be stopped;
                  and, being backed by a band of choice spirits, soon caused the dispersion of the
                  assembly.
               Among the speakers was a lady, who, in the mildest manner and most impressive
                  language, insisted that manly honor, equally with Christian duty, required of men
                  to protect the humble and proscribed; and that to uphold the oppression of the
                  poor—for thus she designated slavery—was unmanly as well as unchristian, and, when
                  done by those who themselves belonged to the industrious class, and were therefore
                  bound by policy to preserve the rights and dignity of labor, was inexpressible
                  mean, and was sure to incur the contempt of honorable men, even among slaveholders
                  themselves, as well as to provoke the vengeance of God. These and the like
                  obnoxious sentiments were promptly hissed, and stamped with the disapprobation of
                  the orderly and decent portion of the audience.
               Alek, who occupied a remote part of the gallery, was not an indifferent spectator;
                  and we are compelled to confess that his rustic sympathies were not on the side of
                  the preservers of order and decency, but rather with the fanatics on the platform;
                  so that, when several brave fellows about him proposed to second the laudable
                  exploits of the valiant captain, by mobbing the ladies as they emerged from the
                  door, he grasped his cudgel tightly, with an impulse to remonstrate. He, however,
                  said nothing, but kept with those about him, who supposed him to be of the same
                  mind; and they, observing his stalwart and vigorous frame, proposed putting him
                  forward as leader,—which honor he declined, as being a stranger. This position was
                  voluntarily assumed by an able-bodied patriot, named Bludgeon.
               Although Alek declined leadership, he kept in front of the enterprising squad;
                  and, as they neared the female group, and Mr. B., supported by those behind him,
                  rushed forward to execute the "summary
                  process" by seizing the female orator, Alek, with a powerful and dextrous blow
                  upon the head, doubled him up, there not being room to fall prostrate, and then,
                  thrusting the end of his cudgel furiously into the faces of his supporters, to the
                  irreparable damage of eyes, noses, and teeth, so discouraged them that they
                  desisted from their purpose, and the fanatics passed unharmed, while Alek mingled
                  with the crowd, and left the ground. Full details of this affair may be found in
                  the secular and religious papers of the time, under the head of "Abolition
                     Riots," recorded with that admirable regard for candor and truth which
                  has always characterized their representations of such affairs.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               IN recording Alek's adventures, exploits, mistakes, and mischances, we do not
                  pretend to portray a perfect character, such as a mere novelist might invent, but
                  only to tell things as they took place, without embellishment or concealment. But,
                  in our comments, modes of expression, and moral reflections, now that we have
                  introduced our hero to the arena of city life, we shall carefully conform to the
                  fashionable tone. Far be it from us to violate the proprieties of the press, by
                  giving utterance to unpopular sentiments, or disturbing the placid stream of
                  public opinion, upon whose unruffled surface we hope to sail. The polite reader
                  may, therefore, confidently expect to be gratified with refinement of expression
                  and sentiment, and perfect conformity of taste and principle with prevailing
                  modes; and, if any unfashionable sentiment should unawares appear, the reader is
                  begged to consider it a mistake, and to cancel it accordingly. With this
                  definition of our position and plan, which the last few pages illustrate, we
                  proceed in the same spirit to this new chapter.—Vive la
                     bagatelle!
               
               We have already announced that Alek had obtained employment. It was with Messrs.
                  Greening and Russet, and through the introduction of Mr. Boynton. Mr. Greening
                     was partner and chief business agent
                  of a manufactory where many strange and uncouth instruments are made of wood and
                  iron, for the convenience of a rustic and semi-civilized people, who occupy remote
                  regions of considerable extent, and find in rude occupations some solace for the
                  deprivations of their condition. Adapted to their simple tastes is a beam of
                  strong wood, to the centre of which projecting portions of iron, crooked and
                  clumsy in form, are attached, while one end of the beam is ornamented with
                  handles, bent like the ivory end of a parasols but much larger, and very strong.
                  This preposterous and absurd instrument they call a "plough," and count it of more
                  use and advantage than piano or harpsichord, which they even affect to disdain.
                  Huge iron spikes, driven through a strong wooden frame, with the points left
                  projecting on one side, make what the call a harrow, with which they are much
                  pleased. A flat plate of iron or steel attached to a wooden handle is also in
                  request among them, and is called, according to its size and form, "spade,"
                  "shovel," or "hoe" (the term "spade" is most absurdly applied, as the instrument
                  has no use analogous to the suit of cards of that name). It should be observed
                  that when the plate of iron which forms the termination of this toy is divided
                  into separate prongs, as the web-foot of a duck may be divided by removing the
                  filmy skin which unites the toes, the mutilated instrument is then called a
                  pitchfork,—the use, however, differing from the pitchfork of musicians. Long,
                  curved knives are also fastened to handles, sometimes long and sometimes short,
                  and called sickles, or scythes; and these are used to cut down the vegetation,
                  which, growing up to two or three feet in a season, would otherwise, by the
                  accumulated growth of a few years, render the region impassable, pavements and
                  sidewalks being there unknown.
               The reader would perhaps be pleased with a personal description of Mr. Greening,
                  the manager of this manufactory. Mr. Greening is a pleasant elderly
                  gentleman,—elderly in years, but juvenile in appearance, being fat, round, ruddy,
                  and agile. Good nature, good living, and good luck, have kept him fat, round, and
                  ruddy, and much business has kept him agile. He does not look like a man of much
                  calculation; yet his face is mathematical, or, at least, geometrical, for it is
                  formed of circles—wheels within wheels. Its outline is a circle, bounding the
                  front disk of a spherical head. The tip of the nose is its exact centre. Between
                  this and the upper segment two circular blue eyes expand their orbits, and on
                  either side the ruddy cheeks repeat the orbic order. In the lower segment the
                  smooth-shaven lips enclose a circular puckered mouth—puckered, but yet smooth. A
                  hemispheric chin, like half an orange, with a central dimple, completes the
                  physiognomy. The whole is not badly represented by the moon on the old-fashioned
                  clock-face. People, at first look, might not think him profound; but in his
                  business he is prompt, shrewd, and successful.
               No man is more than half known till you know his wife, and therefore Mrs. Greening
                  must be introduced.
               Mr. Greening must have been led to his wife by that mysterious affinity which
                  disposes so many to choose, as the complement of their sphere, partners as
                  opposite as possible, not only in sex, but also in all physical and mental
                  characteristics. Thus men short and fat look for ladies long and lean. Black eyes
                  look lovingly upon blue. Pretty faces wed with plain; the philosopher fancies a
                  fool; and the strong-minded woman is
                  willingly wooed and won by a simpleton. The man of stalwart stature is entangled
                  and captured in the net of some tiny sylph; while an ample and robust virago
                  seizes a dapper dandy in her Amazonian embrace, and bears him in triumph to the
                  matrimonial altar.
               In one respect Mr. and Mrs. Greening come under the same description; for she is
                  also formed geometrically,—not of circles, but of angles. Her body is almost
                  linear, for it has extension without much breadth or thickness. Her head is a
                  polyhedron; her face, a trapezium; her chin, a truncated pyramid. Though not a
                  projector, she is full of projections; she is not a speculator, but is always
                  cornered.
               Not that Mrs. Greening is ugly; her sharp black eyes, and delicate complexion, and
                  lady-like expression, and judicious arrangement of curls and ribbons and muslin,
                  rounding the corners and filling up the crannies about the boundaries of her
                  countenance, redeem her from that imputation. The remainder of her frame the
                  dress-maker covers and finishes to a charm; in fact, to many charms, demonstrating
                  the triumphs of padding, buckram, whalebone, cord, and all the materiel of female
                  architecture.
               Mrs. Greening is a pensive lady, serious, devout, and valetudinarian. She never
                  visits the theatre, and she disapproves of dancing; yet she has resources of
                  enjoyment exquisite and unfailing. They come in packages, in powders, in boxes,
                  and bottles. Brandreth, Moffat, Old Dr. Jacob Townsend and young Dr. Townsend
                  (rivals, whose mutual vilifications she discredits, but whose self-boastings she
                  has full faith in), Swaim, Jayne, and the immortal inventor of Russia Salve, and a
                  hundred other empirics—these be her gods. Their oracles she studies, and their
                  nectar she sips. Her medical researches, if not profound, are extensive,
                  experimental, and persevering. She has been steamed by Thomson, and soused by
                  Noggs; braced by Consumption Fitch, and manipulated by Dislocation Hewett, and
                  every bone, spine, corn, and other deformity doctor.
               Blessed be the man who first invented patent medicines, and thus opened regions of
                  delight unknown before! A luxurious Cæsar, in degenerate days, offered rewards to
                  him who would invent a new pleasure; but Nature had not yet perfected the brains
                  that could devise luxuries like these for the delectation of half mankind.
               Why sing of the "good time coming"? O, that the poet of quackery would arise, and
                  sing the advent of these auspicious days—of the good time already come! Why do not
                  a grateful people bestow rewards, and decree triumphs, and build monuments, to
                  these joy-producing benefactors?
               Shall it be replied that the injury they do exceeds their benefit?—that they
                  poison constitutions, weaken and destroy the sanative functions of nature, shorten
                  lives, rob the foolish and ignorant of money on false pretences, of cure, and fill
                  the papers with lying advertisements, supported by forged and fraudulent
                  certificates? Of what account is all this? Perish the paltry objections! What is
                  life without luxury? What is the use of money but to purchase pleasure? Of what
                  use is the press but to circulate mingled falsehood and truth, that people may
                  select as fancy wills? Shall we forego the subtle virtues of essences, elixirs,
                  anodynes, panaceas, balsams, and balms distilled from a thousand flowers; got from
                  mountain tops and valleys deep, and subterranean eaves; from islands of antipodal
                  oceans, and barbarous lands beyond Japan; handed down from seventh son to seventh
                     son, through countless generations;
                  obtained from Indians of undiscovered shores; revealed by miraculous accident; set
                  forth in luminous literature; attested by victims reprieved from predestined
                  death, whose souls still linger on this stormy side of Styx, to give supernatural
                  testimony to supernatural cares? If it be shown that wedlock and motherhood impair
                  health and shorten life, who for that would forego the dearest delights of life,
                  to extend the joyless days and nights of cold celibacy?
               Uncork your bottles, unseal your boxes, mingle your powders, sip your drops,
                  swallow your pills, and spread your salves, ye daughters of delicate complaints;
                  so shall you sweetly live and softly die!
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               ALEK soon stood high with his employer. His business related to the selection and
                  adaptation of the materials for the fanciful trinkets manufactured at Greening
                  & Russet's establishment, as already described, the uses and proper qualities
                  of which Alek understood long ago. He possessed rare judgment and faithfulness, as
                  his employers speedily ascertained. Mr. Greening shrewdly foresaw prosperity in
                  Alek's path. His inquiries confirmed his good opinion Alek and of his family, and
                  he cogitated secret thoughts.
               Mr. Greening had a daughter whom he doted upon, and with good reason; at least,
                  such good reason as fond parents usually have for their partiality. Sophia was
                  blue-eyed, like her father, and moulded after the same order but much beautified.
                  His circularity was in her abated to a graceful roundness and lovableness, such as
                  the eyes willingly linger upon. Sophia was her father's favorite, as her brother
                  Augustus was the mother's. Augustus resembled his mother in her style of
                  structure, but was built with more symmetry. It is perhaps for this mutual
                  softening of opposite qualities in the race that nature contrives, by instinctive
                  choice, to bring together parents so dissimilar.
               
               Son and daughter were educated as those who have much wealth, much fondness, and
                  not too much severe philosophy, educate offspring, whose natural perfections need
                  little training. The best-endowed mind cannot arrive at a right education but by a
                  tedious road through an uninviting region. Augustus never travelled much, except
                  in pleasant paths; yet he became very accomplished. In his mother's eyes he
                  possessed but one fault—he hated medicine.
               Sophia was all perfection. So her feather had always decided, and freely
                  expressed. So also Edward Clevis, who had long been in her father's employ, and
                  had attained to a distant and tremulous acquaintance with the daughter, thought.
                  But Edward sighed in secret, and said nothing. She was a bright, unapproachable
                  star, moving in regions of wealth and fashion which he could not hope to attain.
                  Such are the distinctions which wealth makes among mortals, and which Edward,
                  spite of his romance, was compelled to feel. He therefore sighed in secret, and
                  said nothing; but, Edward found or fancied some little ground of hope, upon which
                  to build airy castles. When did ever romantic love fail to find ground for
                  hope?
               Troublesome fears and anxieties pervaded Mr. Greening's mind. Parents, who desire
                  peace of mind and tranquility in age, should not pray for the gift of beautiful
                  daughters. A vision of a fashionable, dashing, daring, dangerous young man came
                  unpleasantly across his parental views and hopes. He had met the original a few
                  times; at first with an unpleasant impression, which soon deepened into dislike
                  and dread. Mr. Mercutio Fitz-Faun was the heir of a family old, rich, and
                  renowned. He was introduced to Mr. Greening's house by Augustus, who had a
                  predilection for dashing acquaintances, which the father had not. Mrs. Greening
                  and Sophia saw nothing objectionable in the young man. The devil, for his own
                  purposes, often gives his worst imps a pleasant aspect in ladies' eyes; and ladies
                  in such cases always persist in judging, with their own eyes, in spite of
                  judicious husband or father. By the father's eyes the devil-look of Fitz-Faun was
                  plainly seen. He expressed disapprobation of the acquaintance to his wife and
                  daughter. Fitz-Faun already instinctively understood it, and avoided the old
                  gentleman's sight. He had experience of vigilant fathers. He cultivated the
                  friendship of Augustus, and made brief calls at safe hours, offering delicate
                  attentions, such as could hardly be refused without rudeness; but, if they were
                  declined, Mr. Fitz-Faun never was offended. To Mrs. Greening he was all deference
                  and gentleness. He showed regard for religion and for medicine; recommending
                  Pollok's Course of Time for her reading, and Darby's Carminative for her
                  complaints. To Sophia his admiration was half expressed, by looks and words that
                  venture not too far, but yet prepare the way for further venture.
               Sophia thought sometimes of his words and looks, and how odd it would be if he
                  should fall in love with her, and make her the subject of a romance; and then she
                  thought of Fitz-James and the Lady of the Lake. How odd the coincidence of
                  names—Fitz-James, Fitz-Faun! Then she reflected upon the sorrows of Werter and the
                  fair Charlotte, and looked in the glass to see if her own fair features resembled
                  those of Charlotte. She judged, and very justly, that they were as beautiful; only
                  she had never seen Charlotte, nor even her picture. Then she reflected upon Conrad
                  the Corsair, and Medora, and Don Juan, with the fair Haidée. She had seen print of Haidée, with which her own
                  features compared favorably. Then she meditated upon Moore's Melodies, and Willis'
                  Sonnets, and various heroes and heroines of the Lady's Magazine, and other classic
                  creations of lady-like literature, till the music-master came to dispel idle
                  thoughts by laborious lessons.
               Mr. Mercutio Fitz-Faun assiduously cultivated the society of Augustus Greening. In
                  company with him, and sometimes without him, he frequently met the ladies in their
                  walks and resorts, in public places and at social parties; for he had boldness,
                  skill, and facilities to obtain introduction in most places, when he had a motive
                  to come. Augustus was unconsciously his instrument, and he had other instruments.
                  His advances to Sophia were cautious, without the appearance of caution; covert,
                  but with seeming frankness; artfully contrived, yet apparently accidental;
                  designing, but innocent-looking. He sometimes seemed absent-minded, but never
                  forgot his purpose. He often spoke of personal matters, in which he incidentally
                  betrayed some romantically-generous act of his own; the suddenly recalled to
                  himself the impropriety of egotism, and made interesting confessions, lamenting
                  his impulsive disposition, and the difficulty of seeing suffering or wrong without
                  interfering to relieve it; but she is a friend, and will excuse his unguardedness.
                  He could not avoid confession to one's good and beautiful. And then he quoted some
                  pretty sentiment. Thus he gained a step in her confidence, and made himself the
                  subject of her thoughts. Transparent artifices are these; yet they serve to
                  beguile confiding maidens.
               Mr. Greening had no distinct and obvious cause for anxiety, and yet he was
                  anxious. He knew nothing sufficient to justify his forbidding the acquaintance,
                  which, considering the circle in which the young man moved, would cause some
                  inconvenience. He explained his anxiety to his wife, and she gave him assurances
                  which did not assure him.
               His confidence in Alek's personal worth and future prosperity was fully
                  established. He looked upon him as endowed with the very virtues which he gave
                  himself credit for possessing, and by which he had arrived at his present
                  prosperity,—integrity, firmness, good judgment, quick discernment of the character
                  of others, energy, perseverance and due caution in business, and the manly bearing
                  which inspires general respect.
               He felt himself like a vigorous tree, firmly rooted and flourishing; but reflected
                  that years must bring decay, and he considered the advantage of having a thrifty
                  sapling growing beside him, upon whose firm trunk his own might lean, when age
                  should bend it down with the heavy weight of years and cares. His natural
                  partiality for his own son did not blind his eyes, and he never thought of leaning
                  upon Augustus.
               He conversed freely with Alek upon every topic of business, and even upon personal
                  matters, and gave particular proofs of confidence and respect. He invited him to
                  his house frequently, and requested him to come familiarly, as among intimate
                  friends. Mrs. Greening was gracious and conversational; Augustus, spirited and
                  social; and Sophia, lovely and condescending. Alek found it very pleasant to come,
                  and was made to feel himself always welcome. Mr. Greening's family never failed to
                  manifest full welcome to all whom he inclined to favor; besides which, Alek proved
                  himself no unpleasant guest. He had not remitted in his endeavors to learn men,
                  manners, and the philosophy of life;
                  and he rapidly added to his attainment of what is solid and important the
                  propriety and polish which most adorns the sound understanding.
               He appreciated elevation and refinement of sentiment as readily in the diffident
                  and unpretending as elsewhere. Among those whom business led in his way, he was
                  attracted to Edward Clevis, before mentioned, in whom he found qualities worthy of
                  regard; and he often conversed with him. Edward quickly considered him in the
                  light of a judicious friend, and, being himself of a frank and confiding nature,
                  it was impossible that the chief burthen of his thoughts should escape Alek's
                  penetration. But Alek was delicate, and said nothing; and, though unlucky himself
                  generously wished good luck to Edward, whom he believed to merit it. It did not
                  even occur to him that the beautiful Sophia might be made to fill the place in his
                  own heart, so long occupied, and so recently-vacated, by one who had left it
                  desolate and aching; and, therefore, no feeling of rivalry interfered with his
                  sympathy.
               Alek found his new privileges pleasant enough, and still the more agreeable to him
                  for the opportunities of improvement afforded by introduction to cultivated
                  society; and, therefore, he was careful to be always accessible, and ready to
                  accept such invitations and intimations of welcome as might be given, so that he
                  became the most frequent companion and protector of the beautiful Sophia. He
                  considered this a trust from his employer, and kept the same vigilant eye upon his
                  duty as in other trusts, and with no more thought of turning it to his own
                  advantage. He had received an intimation from Mr. Greening of his distrust of Mr.
                  Fitz-Faun, and therefore honored that gentleman with a little closer observation
                  than he gave to others. It was not marked, yet Fitz-Faun suspected it, and also
                  observed closely. He concluded that Alek, encouraged by the family, aspired to the
                  beautiful Sophia, and fiercely determined to frustrate him and revenge himself. He
                  was aware that the enterprise might be difficult; but the more difficult the more
                  glorious its achievement, for of such achievements he was emulous, not only for
                  private benefit, but for glorious boasts among his compeers, and to sustain the
                  ancient renown of the Fitz-Fauns.
               Mr. Mercutio Fitz-Faun had a somewhat narrow range of ideas and aspirations, but
                  within that range his enterprise, perseverance, and success, were wonderful. Of
                  the profound maxims and established rules of life and conduct, founded morals or
                  policy, he had small store; yet there was one which he constantly quoted and
                  applied. "All stratagems are lawful in love," was his axiom. By "love" he meant
                  whatever the low, base, and sensual, imply in that term; and by stratagem,
                  whatever fraud, falsehood, treachery, violence, and villany, might be effectual to
                  his purposes.
               He fancied that he ran a brilliant career. He plumed himself upon his genius and
                  his good fortune. He affected to be styled the Napoleon of gallantry, and named
                  his victories Austerlitz, Lutzen, Marengo, Borodino, and the like. He trusted not
                  alone to chance and the inspiration of the hour, but proceeded by system, with
                  appropriate aids, resources, and instruments, in all emergencies.
               He prided himself especially upon what he called his diplomacy. By
                  diplomacy he had, often made persons of honorable intentions the unconscious
                  instruments of his plots for the runs of their nearest and dearest connections. By
                     diplomacy he managed Augustus,
                  evaded the father, blinded the mother and hoped to baffle and circumvent Alek, and
                  add another victory to his list of Lodis, Lutzens, and Jenas.
               Of the allies and aids of this Napoleon of gallantry, Count Flummery was the
                  chief, and was supported by a regular gradation of Talleyrands, Metternichs,
                  Grouchys, Soults, and subalterns, in the character of procurers, bullies, bribed
                  coachmen, and courtesans.
               By the arts of diplomacy Fitz-Faun decided to commence the campaign against Alek,
                  holding other resources in reserve. Augustus served to introduce him, and he
                  opened his battery of smooth pretences and artifices. He professed particular
                  pleasure in gaining the acquaintance of a friend of Harry Boynton, for whom he
                  avowed much respect, though he had seen him but a few times. He made many remarks
                  meant to be agreeable, and offered his services and good offices on occasions;
                  particularly proposing to introduce Alek to of his own friends, who he judged
                  might be agreeable, and perhaps serviceable.
               Alek did not decline the civilities. He thought that perhaps they might be
                  sincere, or, if otherwise, he considered himself competent to detect and baffle
                  treachery, when already put upon his guard. He desired, also, to ascertain how far
                  Mr. Greening's ill opinion was well grounded; and, perhaps, liked the chance of
                  testing his own diplomacy. Alek's self-estimate had not declined. In that respect
                  he was not much behind Mr. Mercutio Fitz-Faun.
               Two days afterward, Mr. Fitz-Faun called upon Alek with a card of invitation from
                  Count Flummery, whom he described as an English nobleman, of generous spirit, who
                  had lately set up his establishment in New York, temporarily, and in a private way
                  for the sake of familiar acquaintance with the social and political institutions
                  of the American people.
               "By great good fortune," said he, "I was introduced to him when abroad; and he
                  honors me with his friendship, and gives carte blanche for my friends. My
                  introductions have been few and select; and I am particularly glad that I
                  mentioned you, for I think you will be pleased with each other. The count can read
                  men as clever men read books; and he does justice to merit, of
                  whatever kind. The countess is a fine woman, and the young ladies, her daughters,
                  have taken a fancy for, and formed an intimate friendship with my cousins, the
                  Miss Dryades,—Erycina, and her elder sister, Messalina,—who will also be there,
                  with others of the best society. The Miss Dryades are superb, spite of their
                  cousinship."
               Alek expressed a proper sense of the honor, and engaged himself for the occasion;
                  and Fitz-Faun kindly offered to call for him at the proper hour.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Quips, and Cranks, rand wanton Wiles;
                           Nods, and Becks, and wreathed Smiles.
                        
                     
                     —L'ALLEGRO.
                  
               
               IT was in epoch of great interest in Alek's history. He was about to appear a
                  guest in the very central circle of fashion, where modes and ceremonies to him
                  unknown have the force of inexorable laws; before the brilliant and polite, where
                  dulness is disgrace, and awkwardness is crime; before count and countess, who read
                  men as men read books, and decide their worth as a money-changer tells the value
                  of coin; among the most select of the crowd of wealth and fashion, the most
                  educated and elegant among men, and the most beautiful and accomplished among
                  women; where, perhaps, his principles may prevent the graceful compliance which
                  fashion requires, or where his ignorance of ceremony may expose him to juster
                  ridicule; and where, perhaps (for his distrust of Fitz-Faun was not diminished),
                  the purpose of his introduction may be unfriendly and dangerous.
               Alek, however, accepted the invitation, not capriciously, but in accordance with
                  views of his own, and determined to abide the result as bravely and warily as his
                  abilities might permit. He was not altogether unprepared. He had now been in the
                  school of general society for several months, had been an attentive student. At
                  Mr. Greening's suggestion, he had provided a proper dress, and had the tailor's
                  authority, as well as his own opinion, for his outside appearance. He had also
                  received some instruction in ceremony and deportment from Mons. Legerité (maitre
                  de danse), who pronounced him "accompli," "un homme d'esprit, qui fait des choses
                  galamment," "un homme bien fait pour le monde." These compliments Alek, spite of
                  his self complacency, thought too unqualified; yet he allowed himself to be not
                  altogether a clown; he knew where to put his hands and feet; and that it is better
                  to say nothing than to stammer. To these attainments he added his stock; of
                  mother-wit brought from Wolfsden, and improved by use,—and trusted that he should
                  find himself competent to the crisis.
               Having dressed, and perfected his outward appearance, he thus apostrophized
                  himself in the glass:
               "Now, Alek Arbor, son of Deacon Arbor, of Wolfsden you are about to step into a
                  new position. Keep your wits awake. Be not betrayed by negligence, or
                  forgetfulness, or irresolution. If possible, secure the good-will and respect of
                  others, by due observance of what belongs to them; but, at all events, preserve
                  your self-respect, by firmness of principle. Be not suspicious, but have perfect
                  presence of mind to detect, if cause for suspicion shall arise. Conduct yourself
                  so that on your return you shall not be ashamed to look yourself in the face."
               At the appointed hour, a coach containing a gentleman and two ladies called for
                  Alek. The gentleman was Fitz-Faun, and the ladies were his Cousins Dryades, Miss
                  Erycina and Miss Messalina. Alek was introduced by his friend Fitz-Faun, and graciously received. Their dazzling
                  and overpowering beauty was such as he had ever before encountered. Well did they
                  deserve Fitz-Faun's eulogium,—they were "superb, spite of their cousinship."
               A place was reserved for Alek beside the splendid Erycina. Fitz-Faun sat by his
                  superb cousin Messalina, and the coach drove to the count's. The ride was a long
                  one, but the ladies were full of spirits, and their lively chat and familiar
                  gayety made the way seem short.
               Arrived at the elegant house of the count, Fitz-Faun and Messalina preceded Alek
                  and Erycina up the magnificent marble entrance. Lackeys in white kid gloves
                  obsequiously received them; and soon Alek was introduced to a scene of splendor,
                  and luxury before inconceivable.
               Spacious parlors, their sliding doors thrown back, were magnified and multiplied
                  by the reflection of large mirrors, advantageously arranged, so that their extent
                  seemed interminable. The lofty ceiling was adorned with the most elaborate
                  ornament in stucco and gilding. The walls were bordered and festooned with
                  fanciful tracery in blue and gold, and hung with paintings and engravings of the
                  rarest kind. Carpets of the softest texture and most brilliant colors covered the
                  floors. Sofas, and lounges invited luxurious repose. Sideboards glittering with
                  vessels of crystal and silver, filled with the choicest fruits, confections, and
                  sparkling liquors, tempted the palate. A grand piano, of splendid workmanship,
                  occupied one end of a room, and a harp of still more imposing appearance occupied
                  a corner at the other end of the double parlors. The space between and around was
                  variously supplied with marble tables, velvet chairs, glittering screens,
                  tasselled ottomans, costly vases, many curious and rare productions of oriental
                  taste.
               The company was as various and splendid as the furniture. There were many
                  beautiful ladies, and all appeared in the youth or the prime of their charms. Of
                  the men, some were evidently past their middle age, yet fall of the spirit and
                  versatility of youth. Some were remarkably young, yet with the assurance and
                  forwardness of premature ripeness. All appeared on equal terms; and there was
                  somewhat less of the polite deference of youth to maturer dignity, of manhood to
                  beauty and of all toward each other; than Alek expected in society so refined and
                  elevated.
               Count Flummery, to whom Alek was immediately presented by his friend Fitz-Faun,
                  seemed, however, to fulfil Alek's idea of the exterior, at least, of a perfect
                  gentleman. He was about forty years of age, of good person and elegant dress. His
                  hands were taper and slender, as though his fingers might be nimble in any
                  dextrous art (piano-playing, for instance); his eyes were deep and penetrating,—so
                  much so that Alek at first thought they indicated apprehension or suspicion, but,
                  upon reflection, concluded that there must necessarily be something peculiar in
                  the glance of one who could read men as men read books.
               The countess appeared young, and as gay as her daughters; for Alek, without any
                  further information than Fitz-Faun's first description, counted several of the
                  youngest of the ladies present as the daughters of the countess, who, in their
                  sweet superabundance of sentiment, had attached themselves to the superb Dryades,
                  spite of their cousinship to Fitz-Faun.
               The company was dispersed in various conversational groups. Here and there a
                  congenial pair sat tête-à-tête. Some
                  solitary amateurs studied the paintings and engravings on the walls, or turned
                  over the collection of a gold embossed and clasped portfolio. A few sauntered
                  about, as if undecided, among the various attractions; and others still, as caring
                  little for any of them. Some, both in male and female attire, might appear to the
                  attentive observer as practising attitudes, and choosing positions for effect; and
                  others, as trying to conceal weariness and discontent. And Alek could not help
                  reflecting, that, though he had never seen so many aids and means to enjoyment, he
                  had never been in a social company of so few happy faces.
               Alek was introduced to a few of the groups about him, but their conversation was
                  confined to local and personal matters, which he knew nothing of, and regarded as
                  unimportant. He therefore returned to the splendid Erycina, who, besides the
                  personal charms which render even dulness tolerable, had much vivacity, and an
                  infinite fund of personal gossip. Through her he was able to learn something of
                  the company around him, including herself.
               "See," said she, "that tall fellow, with a hanging under-jaw, and lank gray
                  earlocks. His clothes hang about him like drapery about a skeleton. It is not the
                  tailor's fault,—his clothes are well cut, but he is not well made. Take his
                  clothes off, and he'd look worse than now. Nothing could be made to fit him,
                  except by the rope-maker, who might adjust a very suitable cravat to his scraggy
                  neck. He saunters about and attitudinizes, as if to bring draperied skeletons into
                  fashion. Strutting and attitudinizing, sometimes sober, and oftener drunk, has
                  been the only respectable business of his life. He has been trying to learn the
                  trade of a swindler, but can't got the hang of it,—the sheriff should give him the
                  hang of it. He belongs to one of our first families, but they have turned him off
                  with a monthly pension, which he spends in debauchery, or something less
                  respectable, and sponges his board out of credulous land-ladies. But you need no
                  further description. He is edging this way; he always edges, he can't do
                  otherwise, go which way he will, for every side is an edge. He means to make your
                  acquaintance to-night, that he may borrow a 'V' of you to-morrow.
               "See that red-faced, snub-nosed, over-dressed, and over-fed gentleman. He began
                  life a butcher, and got to be a pork merchant. He aspires still higher, and sets
                  up for a debauchee. He has a wife and family at home, who are probably learning
                  the same lessons. He spends fifty dollars a night, and makes a poor speculation of
                  it. He doesn't understand the business. He had better stick to his pork.
               "See that heavy-browed, dark-whiskered Hercules of a fellow, with so many gold
                  chains and jewels, who sits shuffling a pack of cards, to attract a party at whist
                  or loo. He means to pluck a pigeon or two to-night; there are several, here, and
                  he will do it. He never fails. The count,—but I mustn't blab; it's a secret; and,
                  besides, nobody can prove it; so promise to say nothing about it, 'pon honor."
               Alek gave her the required assurance as gravely as if he understood the whole
                  matter, and she went on:
               "He is always here, and is thick with the count. He is no doubt a great gentleman
                  in his way. He understands all the tricks of the cards, and all other games. He is
                  a great character, and knows how to have things his own way. He has been in the
                  ring, and they say tapped Yankee Sullivan's claret. How queer they talk. His name
                  is Sir Mark Barsheer sheer,—so they
                  call him. I will get you his card from the case. You see how it is spelt, 'Sir Marc Barchier, K. B.' I don't know," continued Erycina, "why they
                  call him Sir. I am sure nobody would take him for a
                     madam. But he is an Englishman, and the 'Sir' is some
                  sort of a title;—and then the K. B.,—what does that mean? If it were S. B., I
                  should suppose he meant to announce his claim to be Some-Body; but K. B. comes
                  nearer to Know-Body, and I dare say he is ignorant enough to spell nobody with a
                  K."
               Alek examined the card. He had been for some time scrutinizing this same Sir Marc.
                  A dim impression of something familiar in his features fixed his attention; but he
                  could not trace it to a distinct recollection. Neither Erycina's account, nor the
                  name and title, furnished any clue at the moment; and he noted the features and
                  expression, for after study.
               The promiscuous assembly, moved by the impulse of various motives, affinities, and
                  tastes, formed various circles of amusement. Sir Marc gathered at a table a
                  company mixed according to his views,—the calculating and the reckless, the
                  designing and the deluded. A group of the more vivacious and conversational amused
                  themselves with small-talk, lively repartee, sallies of wit, and laughter. Others
                  sentimentalized, and talked poetry, literature, and scandal. The count told a
                  story of himself, the Prince of Wales, and Charles Fox; and the countess related
                  her parting interview with Queen Charlotte and the Duchess of Kent, and exhibited
                  a bracelet given her by the queen for a keepsake. It was of unique workmanship,
                  and studded with the richest gems. Its central lustre is a star, of which the disc
                  is a diamond of great value; and the five points are composed each of a different
                  gem, and pointed with diamonds.
               Alek, who, with the splendid Erycina hanging upon his arm, had drawn near to hear
                  the count's story, listened with peculiar interest to that of the countess,
                  especially to the account and description of the jewel, and he endeavored to get
                  as near a view of it as possible, without attracting attention. The recollection
                  of Mrs. Simperkins' story, and her description of lost "hunique," struck him as a
                  strange coincidence. He impressed upon his memory the features of the count, the
                  countess, and the jewel, and reserved this subject also for after study.
               Music, was proposed. A lady took her place at the grand piano, and commenced a
                  lively waltz. Quickly a dozen couples were whirling, in rapid yet harmonious
                  motion, through the spacious rooms. The splendid Erycina passed her lovely arm, as
                  if unconsciously, about the waist of Alek, and tapped the time with her taper
                  foot. Alek already excited by the soul-stirring music, could not resist the mute
                  invitation. He joined hands, and clasped the lovely form, and whirled with his
                  beautiful partner in the rounds of the glittering group. His pulse beat time with
                  the enchanting music. He breathed an atmosphere of luxury and sweet abandonment.
                  His eyes were dazzled; his soul was filled with the spender of soft inviting,
                  beauty. His arm was about a form moulded in graceful loveliness,—the perfection of
                  nature and art. His hand clasped a hand through whose delicate fingers the
                  electric fire thrilled along his nerves. Emotions uncontrollable fired his soul.
                  He pressed closer the lovely and yielding form at his side, and bounded in
                  maddening ecstasy through the voluptuous dance.
               
               Soon the lively group exhausted their superabundant spirit, and sunk on the soft
                  sofas, or retired for refreshment. The splendid Erycina led her partner to a
                  corner retired and unobservable, and seated herself by his side. A gorgeous Indian
                  screen hid them from view. It seemed a place for whispering lovers made. Love's
                  mighty influence ruled the hour. Yet Alek resisted the mighty impulse, though with
                  wavering resolution. His firm self-control faltered with each new onset.
               Though hidden from view, an officious waiter found them out, and proffered cake
                  and wine in silver baskets and crystal cups; but Alek refused all refreshment,
                  except iced water. His wisdom had not wholly deserted him. His blood needed the
                  ice, not the wine.
               The dance ceased, and songs were solicited. The voluptuous melodies of Moore were
                  breathed from enchanting lips, accompanied by piano and harp. Sweet sensations of
                  mingled sentiment and passion overwhelmed the soul. Love's mighty influence ruled
                  the hour.
               At length the magnificent Messalina was urged, and took her place at the harp. Her
                  skill surpassed others; and her song was such as the occasion and the ruling
                  spirit of the hour demanded. With attentive ear all drank the melody, and
                  applauded the sentiment. 
                     
                        
                           
                              MESSALINA'S SONG.
                              
                                 'T is the hour of gentle feeling,
                                 Tender thoughts and speaking sighs;
                                 All the soul of love revealing,
                                 Panting hearts and sparkling eyes.
                                 Not the gairish day's effulgence
                                 Suits the reign of soft delight;
                                 Warmest wishes wait indulgences
                                 Till the genial shades of night.
                              
                              
                                 Let the hero and the miser
                                 Toil by day for gold or fame;
                                 We, all happier and wiser,
                                 Wait the night's propitious reign.
                                 Hall the hour with joy o'erflowing,
                                 Social mirth and soft delight;
                                 Love-enkindling, bliss-bestowing,
                                 Secret-keeping, favoring night!
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Alek sits softly on the luxurious sofa, and the splendid Erycina sits closely by
                  his side. An hour's acquaintance has brought them intimately near. Mutual
                  attractions draw them closer, with resistless force. Tender sympathies unite them
                  in sweet embrace. She reclines her lovely form upon his beating breast. Her bright
                  blue eyes look tenderly in his, and then turn timidly away. He sighs in a
                  transport of overpowering emotion. She lays her delicate hand in his open palm.
                  His closing hand clasps hers with expressive tenderness. She turns upwards her
                  blushing face with fond consenting look. He presses her yielding form to his
                  breast, and devours her lips with burning kisses. Love's mighty influence rules
                  the hour.
               Is it love? O, power of supernal source celestial bond of virtuous union!
                  everlasting chain, let down from the throne of heaven, and embracing in its links
                  the children and heirs of holy life! Eternal power! forgive the profanation of thy
                  sacred name. Teach us, that we may not disguise the cup of hell with the perfume
                  of heaven.
               Away, Alek, away! The soul-debasing fire of sensualism rages in your veins. The
                  siren charmer drags you beneath the waves of perdition. The angel fellow-voyagers
                  are leaving your heart, and bearing away contentment, peace, and hope. Remorse,
                  degrading self-contempt, and base remembrances brances, hasten to take their place, and be your
                  future companions.
               O, self-degrading soul! being of promised immortality, turning downward in thy
                  course! O, mortal with heavenly gifts, betraying thy trust! heir of blessed life,
                  forfeiting thy crown! Awake! resist! flee!
               Thus shouted the angel of rescue to the yet unpolluted heart, yielding—blindly,
                  madly, but not wilfully yielding to overpowering temptation. The warning voice
                  thrilled in the inmost sanctuary of the troubled soul. The startled victim awoke
                  in the moment of his extremest danger. He glanced at an opposite mirror, and saw
                  himself bound in an ignoble snare. He remembered the vision, the danger, and the
                  escape, when he slept by the rivulet, beneath the overhanging beech, on the day of
                  his departure. In strong imagination, he almost saw his mother again, with
                  terrified look, pointing at the fearful form of death, standing with upraised dart
                  in act to strike. The strong reaction of his mother's remembrance, of the blessed
                  teachings of his youth, of the moral training of his life, of the pure affections
                  of home, of high resolves and holy aspirations, drove back the demon of sensual
                  temptation. Not daring to trust himself with further delay, he hastened to the
                  presence of the count, and explained that imperative necessity required his
                  immediate departure. The count looked inquiringly, and, as Alek thought,
                  hesitatingly and suspiciously; but Alek paused not for further ceremony. He passed
                  to the outer door. The servant in attendance was slow in opening it; but he thrust
                  him aside, turned the bolts, and in a moment was in the street.
               He hastened along the deserted and silent pavement, and did not pause till he had
                  reached his solitary room. From his open window he looked forth upon the gloomy
                  expanse. How gloomy, contrasted with the bright scenes so lately left, whose
                  splendor still filled and dazzled his brain! Obscuring clouds covered the sky, but
                  they were driven by a viewless force, and soon broke and fled into the depths of
                  night. The fair moon and silvery stars shone forth with accustomed brightness. The
                  cool air fanned his flushed and fevered brow. The sublime majesty of the universe,
                  whose silence is eloquent beyond speech, inspired and elevated his soul. He felt
                  that he was not alone. He who has filled the material world with life has not left
                  the brighter and purer regions of space a void. Intelligences, far higher and
                  nobler than those which grovel on earth, people all the ethereal regions with
                  myriad angel forms. They surround us. They understand us. They see our
                  inferiority, and yet they do not despise us; they know our baseness, yet they do
                  not scorn us, for these emotions dwell not in angelic minds, who have cast off
                  their lower nature, and expanded into perfect being. They see us on a lower step
                  of the ladder of progression, where they once stood, and whence we, like them,
                  shall rise to better life.
               Thus mused Alek, and sought to soothe his self-accusing spirit. He was troubled,
                  abashed, humbled. His self-confidence was abated; he had not stood firmly. His
                  self-boasting was not justified; though he had not fallen, he had stumbled; for,
                  though a timely flight from temptation is victory, yet his flight had been delayed
                  too long—almost fatally. His victory was but an escape. He had partially yielded,
                  and thus had forfeited the honors of triumph.
               Upon further reflection, he doubted if he had not been the dupe of conspiracy. The
                  questionable character of Fitz-Faun
                  Faun, the worse than questionable character of others of the gay company, as
                  described by the splendid Erycina, and even her own too facile charms, though in
                  keeping with the sentiment and spirit of the assembly, all indicated the
                  possibility that the society to which he had been so ostentatiously introduced
                  belonged to a lower order than its pretensions claimed. His suspicions, once
                  started, ranged through all the labyrinths of possibility, whenever circumstances
                  threw light. He even conceived that the count and his friends might all be
                  impostors,—perhaps a gang of swindlers, prostitutes, and dupes. At the head of the
                  first order, in this imaginary classification, he placed his friend Fitz-Faun; and
                  at the foot of the latter class, himself. With sarcastic bitterness, he looked in
                  the glass, to learn the lineaments which characterize a dupe. He saw the lines of
                  folly very plain, and wondered that he had not marked them before. No wonder that
                  Fitz-Faun read him at a glance, and set him down as a fit subject for cheap
                  experiment, He stared himself in the face, to see how a fool stares. He assumed an
                  air of sagacity, to see how the grimace of wisdom sits on the face of folly. He
                  looked complacently, to see how a foolish face looks when taking the bait of
                  flattery. Having completed his self-examination, he thus again apostrophized
                  himself:
               "And so you, Alek, idiot son of Deacon Arbor, of Wolfsden, are the nice young man
                  who judged yourself capable of, detecting treachery, and protecting yourself! You
                  are the sagacious genius, who was to behave so warily and circumspectly as not to
                  be ashamed to look yourself in the face How do you look now? Could you look your
                  dog Lion in the face, if he were here? Do you think you could find your way back
                  to Wolfsden, and re-learn the knack of raising turnips nips, and pumpkins, and
                  calves. Perhaps you might in time get cunning enough to palm off your own head for
                  a turnip or pumpkin, or yourself for a calf, upon some customer about as wise as
                  yourself."
               Having thus vented his self-reproach, he seated himself by the window, and again
                  reviewed the affair. He was more and more convinced of the imposture of the
                  pretended count and his high society. A hundred recollected circumstances
                  confirmed his suspicion.
               The dim though fixed impression of having before seen the pompous personage styled
                  Sir Marc puzzled him. He almost fancied it must have been in some previous state
                  of existence that he knew him. He explored his memory for some clue, and recalled
                  the expression of his features, to compare the with all whom he had seen abroad;
                  for it did not occur to him that such a magnificent "swell" could ever have been
                  seen in Wolfsden. At length he recurred to the remembrances of childhood, and soon
                  hit upon a strange coincidence of form, features, expression, and even name. Sir
                  Marc certainly belonged to the breed of Bang the blacksmith. Is it possible that
                  he should be no other than the reprobate Mark Barker, who absconded fifteen years
                  ago, after robbing widow Bowler's turkey-pen? Alek remembered the looks of the
                  boy, but he identified the man chiefly by the resemblance to Bang. He felt
                  strongly persuaded of the truth of his conjecture, and determined to verify
                  it.
               The affair of the remarkable and valuable jewel displayed by the countess as the
                  gift of a queen, and its exact resemblance to that described by Mrs. Simperkins as
                  stolen from her by Count Flipperton and his lady, employed his reflections.
                  Wonderful, if the jewels should prove to be identical and Count Flummery the very Count Flipperton! Here
                  was matter to be explored, a riddle to be solved. Alek debated whether his own
                  abilities were equal to the occasion. He had just now berated himself as a dupe
                  and a fool, by no means the fit agent to explore mysteries and solve riddles; but
                  perhaps his self-judgment might be revised, now that his self-indignation had
                  subsided. Upon a calm review of facts, he gave himself credit for having acted
                  with some little common sense. He had not been entirely duped. He had escaped the
                  snare at the last moment, even when escape was most difficult. It was his first
                  venture into the enchanted den; and he had baffled the enchanter, and had also
                  gained the experience which would make him wiser upon a like occasion. He had now
                  more of the sagacity of self-distrust, and, therefore, of self-watchfulness. He
                  now knew something of the smooth tactics of the enemy, and the necessity of
                  instant and constant vigilance.
               Upon the whole, he determined to give himself further trial. This might have been
                  but the preliminary skirmish to a coming campaign, which should test his
                  generalship. His self-confidence, so lately humbled, again inspired him, and he
                  summoned his energies for the strife.
               He impressed upon his mind that of all perils the most dangerous is self-betrayal.
                  So long as he should be vigilantly true to himself, he could not suffer serious
                  injury. A divine power aids and guards those who faithfully endeavor to pursue the
                  path of duty. He recalled the timely warning of the dream which saved his life
                  when he slept under the beechen tree by the rivulet, and the mysterious impression
                  which so lately startled him from the more dangerous trance of voluptuous
                  temptation. His relation to the unseen power so repeatedly manifested for his
                  preservation, filled him with wonder and awe, and he bowed his head and his spirit
                  in grateful adoration and fervent prayer. His soul was purified and strengthened
                  for duty and for danger; and he felt reënlisted for the battle of life.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE moment Alek left the count, after taking so abrupt a leave, that high
                  personage immediately found Fitz-Faun, and told him of the flight, as he termed
                  it; and, such was Fitz-Faun's patronizing zeal, that he instantly rushed to the
                  door to intercept his friend's departure, but, finding himself too late, in
                  consequence of Alek's impetuosity in thrusting aside the dilatory porter and
                  opening the door for himself, he hastened back to a private room, and, sending for
                  the noble count and the splendid Erycina, demanded of them an account of his
                  friend, and the reason of his flight. The noble count protested that he had acted
                  in every point exactly according to directions; and the splendid Erycina declared
                  that she had not been wanting in politeness, and could give no reason for his
                  abrupt departure. "He started," she said, "not like a person angry, but suddenly
                  frightened, as though he saw a ghost." She feared he was insane, or eccentric, or
                  something of the kind; which she protested was a pity, for he was certainly a most
                  interesting character, and quite an original.
               Fitz-Faun was disconcerted, and hesitated not to let his anger manifest itself in
                  expressions which, considering the elevated society present, were, to say the
                  least, anything but gracious. The count, with remarkable humility, repeated his
                  excuses, and deprecated the anger of his guest, while Erycina sat mute. Perhaps
                  she was terrified at his reproaches. Perhaps she was indignant. Perhaps her
                  thoughts were turned in another direction, and cannot now be fathomed. Fitz-Faun
                  intimated to her that her presence might be spared. As she retired, Sir Marc was
                  sent for, to whom Fitz-Faun announced that the bird had flown or so he facetiously
                  communicated the news of his friend's abrupt departure.
               "How's that?" said Sir Marc. When the circumstances of the event were told, the
                  valiant knight,—for such, we presume from his card of address, is his proper
                  title,—the valiant K. B. took a knightly attitude, and stood erect just two
                  minutes. He looked considerate and contemplative for a minute and a quarter. He
                  then looked sagacious and self-possessed for half a minute. For the remaining
                  fifteen seconds he looked determined and unrelenting, and then took a seat.
               "This is what I call a clumsy piece of business," said the K. B.
               "The question is not what to call it, but how to remedy it," said Fitz-Faun.
               "Do you give him up on this tack?" said the K. B.
               "I rather think he suspects this game," replied Fitz-Faun.
               "Is he worth your while to turn over to me?" inquired the K. B.
               "I'd give a cool five hundred, to fix him," said Fitz-Faun.
               The K. B. walked softly to the door, which he suddenly opened and looked about,
                  and then, as if reässured, returned to his seat. (A gliding apparition without had
                     suddenly disappeared as the
                  door-handle turned, but now resumed its position at the key-hole.)
               "I think," said the K. B., after a moment's consideration, "I'm your man for that
                  craft; that is, if crippling is all you are after. If you go in for
                     scuttling, that's another affair."
               "What I want of that craft," said Fitz-Faun, adopting the knight's nautical
                  phrase, "is to get it out of my way. I want a clear coast just at present. I don't
                  care whether it's for a few weeks, or a few months, or forever. I don't want a
                  vessel of his class conveying sails that I have a mind to over-haul. I don't owe
                  the fellow a grudge,—he 's acting under orders, and also keeps an eye to windward
                  for his own sake. I should prefer to out-manœuvre him, or decoy him on this
                  Circean quicksand, to founder of his own accord. But, if he won't be diplomatized,
                  he must be driven. I'll see him and sound him once more, and, if I find him
                  incorrigible, I'll turn him over to you. If finesse fails, force must do, and
                  we'll 'conquer a peace.'" With these words, this Napoleon of gallantry broke up
                  the council.
               Pursuant to his plan, Fitz-Faun, the next day, found Alek and sounded him. Alek
                  was prepared for the process. He had all the advantage over Fitz-Faun which plain,
                  uncompromising integrity ever has over dissimulation. Alek was not deceived by
                  Fitz-Faun; for falsehood when once suspected loses its power to deceive. But
                  Fitz-Faun was puzzled with Alek; for nothing is so impossible to be comprehended
                  by cunning knavery, as the plain maxims and motives of common sense and
                  honesty.
               "You took French leave, last evening," said Fitz-Faun.
               "Not exactly," replied Alek. "I paid my parting respects to the count, and
                  requested him to excuse me to his friends, which is all, I believe, that etiquette
                  requires."
               "But why did you come away so abruptly?" said Fitz-Faun.
               "My duties require that I should keep early hours," said Alek; "and I think it
                  easier to practise self-denial by beginning with the first temptation, than after
                  having formed a habit of indulgence."
               "Speaking of temptation," said Fitz-Faun, "I suppose you refer to my fair cousin
                  Erycina. I knew you would be smitten with her. Isn't she splendid?"
               "She is splendid," replied Alek, "and fascinating. But I would not be understood
                  as referring to a lady when speaking of temptation, which would hardly be
                  compatible with proper delicacy and respect. I referred to the temptation of late
                  hours, for the sake of any agreeable company."
               "Then you confess she was agreeable company, and somewhat tempting? I thought as
                  much from your intimacy. Upon the whole, I think you went about far enough, upon
                  first acquaintance. I presume you will call this evening to inquire her health, as
                  you are an observer of etiquette. I have brought you her card—No. 16
                  Cytheria-street. But, by the way, don't encumber yourself with too strict notions
                  of 'proper delicacy and respect,' as you term it. That isn't etiquette in New
                  York,—nor anywhere else, I suspect, where the ladies fashion the laws of society.
                  The only way to win the ladies' regard is at first to go so far with them as to
                  offend them,—or so far that they ought to be offended,—and the next time to go
                  further still. That's my rule, and it never fails!"
               
               "Then I may presume that you are quite successful in winning the respect of the
                  ladies," said Alek.
               Fitz-Faun started. He thought he perceived the slightest tone of contempt in the
                  reply, and the slightest shade of emphasis on the word ladies, as
                  though he had no title to the respect of men. He was already somewhat disconcerted
                  with the easy indifference, and, as he sometimes fancied, the air of superiority,
                  which Alek maintained. But his scheme required affability and conciliation, and he
                  therefore smothered his resentment; and, being resolved to press the conversation
                  to some development, he replied that he made no boasts of his own successes, and
                  no interference with the pursuits of others. "Though," continued he, "I half envy
                  the favor you seem to have gained with our fair friend Erycina. I rallied her upon
                  your exclusive attentions, and could see that she was pleased. I ought not to
                  betray her secret, but I know she likes you. It is not her way generally, for she
                  is thought to be hard to please; so you should value your victory the more
                  highly."
               "Well," said Alek, "I will be careful to preserve her regard, by doing nothing to
                  offend her, and nothing that ought to offend her, notwithstanding your infallible
                  rule; for I mean to deserve her respect, and, if I cannot retain it in that way, I
                  shall at least preserve my own."
               "I see you mean to keep your own counsel," persisted Fitz-Faun; "yet I suspect you
                  understand the epicurean philosophy of enjoying life while it lasts, as well as
                  myself; for I am frank to avow that as my philosophy, and have no
                  doubt that cousin Erycina will find it to be yours. What is life without love, as
                  the song says?"
               "Life without love," replied Alek, "would be but an abject affair; but what you
                  term love would debase it still lower. Your mistaking such a passion for love is
                  even a greater error than that of supposing me capable of trifling with the
                  affections of a virtuous woman, or seeking the society of a wanton one. But you
                  have made one correct supposition, for I do mean to enjoy life while it lasts,
                  though not according to your views."
               Fitz-Faun, still more disconcerted and embarrassed by the direct and earnest
                  manner of Alek, wished to continue the conversation only till he might effect a
                  retreat; and he asked, with a bantering tone, if Alek would favor him with
                     his views of enjoying life, and also inform him where he got such
                  a stock of fine sentiments.
               "My sentiments," said Alek, "I learned of my mother, from whom I also learned not
                  to despise, but only to pity those who are incapable of appreciating them. My
                  views of enjoying life I am happy to explain, for I acquired them from the same
                  source, and my first lesson was received very early. I was about three years old,
                  and dressed in my first frock and trousers, when I strayed into the field a little
                  way from the house, and found a small tortoise. I raised my stick to strike it,
                  when something within me seemed to say No! Perhaps it was the echo of
                  something that my mother had inculcated in my infant car. I held the stick still
                  uplifted until the animal had crawled away out of sight, and then went into the
                  house and asked my mother what it was that said no when I wanted to
                  strike the tortoise. She took me in her arms, and taught me that it was something
                  within me, which people call conscience which the Bible calls the
                     good spirit, or the still small voice; and she told
                  me that if I would always listen to that voice, it would always teach me, and keep me from doing wrong, and
                  would guide me in the way of happiness. From that time, her precepts have always
                  inculcated the love of what is right, and instilled the true principle, that the
                  highest happiness of which we are capable depends upon the culture of the moral
                  powers. To dwarf and corrupt those by sensual indulgence, is to abuse and destroy
                  all the sources of true enjoyment which make life worth having. My observations
                  and reflections, since I have become capable of observing and reflecting for
                  myself, confirm the incalculable value of this truth; so that I look with the
                  utmost pity upon those who are incapable of understanding it, however they may be
                  favored by fortune in every other respect."
               Alek looked firmly but mildly upon Fitz-Faun while speaking, and that epicurean
                  philosopher fancied, that he saw a gleam of pity in his look, for which he was not
                  particularly grateful. He affected to yawn, and drawlingly replied,
               "Please give my respects to your good mother, and also to Miss Erycina, to whom I
                  suspect, in spite of all your fine sentiments, you will pay your first visit."
               As Fitz-Faun departed, he muttered, "The fellow is incorrigible; I shall hand him
                  over to Sir Marc, and I hope he'll scuttle him, as he says. Impudent
                  dog!—pity me! He little knows that I hold the thread of his fate in
                  my hands, to snap when I choose." And Fitz-Faun snapped his fingers by way of
                  illustration.
               This conference took place in an office of the agricultural ware-rooms, front
                  which it was separated by only a glass partition. Various customers were examining
                  the crooked and uncouth articles exhibited for sale outside, while quizzing clerks
                  commended their finish and beauty. After Fitz-Faun had gone, a countryman, who had
                  observed him through the glass, came in and asked Alek if he was acquainted with
                  the Mr. Smith who had just left him.
               "His name is not Smith, but Fitz-Faun," said Alek.
               "Fitz-Forn!" said the countryman; "strange!—but do you know his wife?"
               "He is not married," said Alek.
               "Fitz-Forn!—not married!—strange!" muttered the countryman.
               Alek asked no explanation; but when the countryman had made his purchases, he took
                  note of his name and residence. It was George Washington Bowpin, of
                  Furrowdale.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           What should she do? Attempt once more
                           To gain the late deserted shore?
                        
                     
                     —FEMALE SEDUCERS.
                  
               
               NOTHING could be further from Alek's intention than to renew his acquaintance with
                  the splendid Erycina; yet it happened that Fitz-Faun's prediction, that his first
                  visit would be paid to her, was verified. Scarcely had that epicurean departed,
                  when a prompt young man brought a billet to Alek, informing him that a person
                  wished to meet him on important business, at the Astor House, in private parlor
                  No. 12, at seven o'clock, P.M. Alek accepted the appointment, and in due season
                  repaired thither; and, being shown into the dimly-lighted parlor, was welcomed by
                  a very young gentleman, very elegantly dressed, and very handsome. When their eyes
                  met, Alek started with surprise; and Erycina, seeing herself recognized, blushed,
                  but commanded herself sufficiently to commence the conversation.
               "I wish," said she, "first, to inquire the reason of your abrupt departure."
               "Because," said Alek, "I felt that my only safety was in flight. I would not be
                  guilty of trifling with your feelings, nor of proceeding in a course incompatible
                  with your honor and my own. To be perfectly frank with you,—for my conduct duct
                  demands, at least, this reparation,—it was the sudden recollection of my mother,
                  so strongly impressed that I seemed to see her face, filled with solicitude and
                  warning, and bidding me to flee. I regret that I have ever for a moment
                  disregarded her pure instruction; but I rejoice, for both of us, that she was not
                  quite forgotten."
               "I understand you," said Erycina; "I had already begun to understand you, but I
                  wished to hear your explanation, for I doubted whether men were ever
                  conscientiously pure. You would not wonder at my doubt, if I should tell you what
                  I have seen. I am glad to change my opinion; and I will not again be tempted to
                  believe that all virtue is pretence.
               "I presume that you wonder at my expressing a regard for virtue; for,
                  notwithstanding your reference to my honor, no doubt you understand my position as
                  one whose honor is lost. I am, indeed, one of that unfortunate class whom, the
                  world so regards. But I do not love dishonor. O, how I hate it! My soul longs to
                  fly back over the impassable gulf to purity and self-respect. O, MY mother! Yes,
                  Mr. Arbor, I too had a mother! If her departed spirit still feels interest in her
                  lost daughter, there must be sorrow even in heaven! Excuse my emotion. I know not
                  why I am led to speak of myself!
               "I sought this interview to bid you beware of Fitz-Faun. He is your enemy, and
                  will spare no pains to injure or destroy you; and he is more to be feared than you
                  suppose. He has wealth and cunning, and the resolution that hesitates at nothing
                  to effect his purpose. If you had tasted the wine offered you last evening, his
                  purpose would have been accomplished; for it was prepared especially for you, as I
                  have since had reason to believe, and would have put you entirely in his power, so
                  that not even your mother's call would have saved you. It was your voluntary self-ruin, the ruin of
                  your character and reputation, that he aimed at then. Being foiled in that, he
                  will not hesitate at treachery and violence. He has his tools. Sir Marc is one of
                  them, and they have already conferred with regard to you.
               "I do not know the cause of his malice, but suppose, from expressions I overheard,
                  that he looks upon you as a rival, or as preventing his designs—probably
                     criminal designs—elsewhere. Perhaps this hint may enable you to
                  understand his motives, which I do not. Now my errand is done, I will not detain
                  you longer."
               "I thank you much," said Alek, "for this information. If I can be of any real
                  service to you, you may command me. I judge, from your expressions, that you are
                  not satisfied with your present position. Why not leave it, while it is still
                  possible, before your mind shall become corrupted?"
               "I have left it," said she, with earnestness; "and I will die before
                  I will return to it. To regain an honorable position as a woman, is impossible;
                  but I will not lead a life of self-loathing infamy. This disguise will serve me
                  among strangers, where, as a man, I can gain honorable employment without
                  reference for my character, which would be required of a woman; for, though every
                  stranger, if a man, is presumed to be respectable, every woman whose history is
                  unknown is suspected and condemned. Such is man's justice to woman!
               "I have skill to earn a support by teaching music. In a few hours I shall be in a
                  distant city. I have money to last till I can obtain employment; and I shall be
                  happy when I can again live by my own exertions,—and perhaps recompense pense my
                  angel mother with the joy which the angels have over repentant sinners.
               "I thank you for your kind wishes. But you owe me no gratitude, for I was bound to
                  atone for the intended evil, of which I was made the instrument, though not the
                  accomplice, for I was not then aware of his malignant and treacherous intentions.
                  I was then the slave of the wicked Fitz-Faun. He would make my ruin of soul and
                  body complete; and through me he sought to ruin you. Your mother's image saved
                  you,—the memory of mine shall redeem me. It is but a few months since I was led
                  away. Few know me, and none of those, not even yourself, do I wish to see again.
                  When I shall be among those who know nothing of my shame, I shall have the luxury
                  of an untarnished name, and can the better deserve it."
               "I am glad to hear your resolution," said Alek; "but your plan, though better than
                  none, is not the best. Your best chance of usefulness and happiness requires that
                  you should regain your proper position as a woman; and this, though perhaps not so
                  speedily attained, is not difficult. To conceal your sex long is entirely out of
                  the question. But in your own attire the few who know you would not be likely to
                  meet and recognize you in a distant town, and in the plain dress and respectable
                  employment of a music-teacher. In many places sufficiently remote, yet
                  sufficiently populous, may be found discreet women, whose protection would be a
                  sufficient passport to respect, and who would have the delicacy to understand and
                  appreciate your object, without requiring an account of the past, for the
                  instincts of benevolence in women are disposed to search out only what is good and
                  hopeful.
               
               "If you will allow me to advise you, and will give me so much of your history
                  (since I already know the worst of it) as shall enable me to judge how best to aid
                  you, you may rely upon my zeal, and you still will be at liberty to follow your
                  own counsel."
               "I need counsel wiser than my own," said Erycina; "and my history is a brief
                  one.
               "I lost my parents in early life, and was brought up by an uncle and aunt, who
                  gave me all the advantages of the village where they resided. My natural talent
                  for music was particularly cultivated, with the view of my becoming a teacher, and
                  I had commenced giving lessons when my good uncle died. My aunt, with whom I
                  continued to reside, was a woman of most amiable disposition, but too unacquainted
                  with the world, and too deficient in prudence and precaution, for our safety. My
                  skill in music gained for me attention and employment, and my aunt was gratified
                  with the praises bestowed on me.
               "In one of the few wealthy families where I gave lessons I first met Fitz-Faun. He
                  was the most accomplished person I had ever seen, and all his accomplishments were
                  from that moment devoted to my ruin. Nothing could be more delicate and refined
                  than his first advances. My aunt, with whom he immediately made acquaintance,
                  believed him a paragon of every excellence, and particularly praised his candor
                  and sincerity. He can counterfeit every virtue with such perfect seeming, that, on
                  finding out his true character, one is tempted to believe all seeming virtue but
                  counterfeit. His hypocrisy is the most complete of all his accomplishments, and he
                  possesses every accomplishment consistent with utter depravity.
               "My heart was full of confidence and love, ready to be bestowed on the first
                  congenial object, and I thought him worthy of it all. I gave him my whole heard. I
                  would have died for him; but he required more than that,—even to the utter
                  extinction of my moral being,—the death of my soul.
               "He managed to deceive me by a mock marriage, while on a pleasure excursion, and
                  we lived several months in a beautiful retreat near the city. His real character
                  soon became apparent; but so entire was my devotion to him, and so impossible was
                  it for me to harbor a thought of censure, that I lowered my standard of morality,
                  and strove to think villany excusable; and when my moral sense was most outraged
                  by his avowal of the worst sentiments, I only regretted that I had formed such
                  ideas of goodness that the idol of my love held them in contempt. I began to
                  believe that all proper and virtuous sentiment among men is but fashionable
                  pretence; and only lost my respect for my betrayer, by learning to despise all
                  mankind.
               "Of course, I could not be happy while thus parting with all that is elevated and
                  beautiful in existence, and dragging my soul to be fit companion to a depraved
                  sensualist. I felt myself a wreck upon a dark ocean, without a guide or even an
                  object to strive for. Though it had been but a few months since I left my happy
                  and innocent home, I knew that, sooner or later, I should be cast aside a
                  worthless thing, and I firmly resolved that when that moment should come I would
                  cease to live. But the dread of the death I determined on kept me still more
                  subservient to my tyrant's will. I feared to provoke him to discard me, and thus
                  hasten my fate. I hoped that death might reach me in some other way, and save me the horror of suicide. I
                  welcomed the news of pestilence; and when I heard of a shipwreck, how I envied the
                  victims! Yet I was forced to appear gay, and to study the arts of fascination,
                  that I might protract my wretched life!
               "It was but recently that I revolved thoughts of escaping from my condition. I
                  began to reflect, that since men are privileged to act either wickedly or
                  virtuously, without forfeiting the respect of society, I might assume the dress of
                  a man, and, by concealing my sex, hide my reproach, and be permitted to live
                  without purchasing existence by shame. Yet these vague thoughts might not have
                  ripened to resolution, but for the events of last evening. I saw you, and by some
                  strange influence my former ideas of the reality of manly virtue revived, and I
                  looked upon you as their embodiment. Your behavior during the evening weakened the
                  impression, and gave new attractions to evil. But when you broke from me and fled,
                  I was not surprised. I understood you, and was glad that you had not fallen.
                  Fitz-Faun reproached me for your escape, and for the first time used language of
                  insult and threatening. I did not reply, but I resolved, and you see
                  that I have acted."
               "Who is Messalina?" said Alek.
               "I know not. I never saw her till yesterday, when I was required to appear as her
                  sister. She is probably another victim of Fitz-Faun's, as wretched, and, perhaps,
                  as unhappy as myself. If she is less unhappy, she is more wretched; for, if her
                  mind is reconciled to infamy, there is no hope of her escape."
               "How much do you know of Sir Marc?"
               "But little. I know nothing of his history. He is as bad as he is capable of
                  being. How great his abilities are, I cannot tell. He is illiterate, though he has
                  generally the tact to conceal it. But his knowledge of the world, especially the
                  bad world, is complete. He is a tool of Fitz-Faun; which proves that he has
                  abilities for evil, for Fitz-Faun employs none but capable tools. He is doubtless
                  employed chiefly for desperate enterprises, where fraud will not prevail, and
                  where force and courage are required."
               "And what of the count?"
               "He is a pretender, an impostor, a tenant and tool of Fitz-Faun. You see that he
                  is polished. He is an imported article. Fitz-Faun prides himself on the perfection
                  of his tools."
               "I see," said Alek, "that he is a systematic villain. I am fully convinced of your
                  sincerity, and will assist you to place yourself beyond his power, and to recover
                  a proper position in life. I have relatives in Saco who will receive you, and
                  their reception will enable you to renew your vocation as a teacher. They would
                  receive and aid you still more zealously, if they knew your history; but there is
                  no necessity for your suffering that humiliation. Let the past be buried in
                  forgetfulness. I will simply write to my aunt that a young woman, dependent upon
                  her own industry, wishes employment as a teacher of music. She will probably
                  invite you to come, and offer to receive you temporarily into her own family;
                  after which, your destiny will be what you may make it."
               Alek looked and spoke with the decision and gravity of his father. The spirit of
                  his mother prompted his action. The impulsive and passion-driven youth of the
                  preceding evening was merged in the considerate and virtue-guided man. The generous warmth of sympathy prompted
                  him, but he reflected before he acted. He considered that there would be some
                  inconvenience, and perhaps risk, in what he proposed, but that the promise of good
                  overbalanced both. He would not be governed by prudence alone, but employed it to
                  direct his benevolence.
               The result was, that the fallen Erycina rose again, and there was joy in heaven
                  over the returned sinner. Uncle Lemuel Hobart and good Aunt Nabby received the
                  plainly-dressed and modest music-teacher, Miss Meekly,—for such was her proper
                  name, which she now resumed. The grace and beauty of her person became, under the
                  good influences which now surrounded her, the fit adornments of a heart and life
                  equally graceful and beautiful. Her talents as a music-teacher commanded
                  patronage, and she again knew the luxury of virtuous independence.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               MR. SAMUEL BOYNTON, the uncle to whom Alek took Harry's letter of introduction,
                  and through whose recommendation he obtained his present situation, continued to
                  treat him with kind notice; and as he observed the young rustics improved manner
                  and deportment, and received from Mr. Greening the most satisfactory reports of
                  his ability and reliability, he treated him with still more consideration,—and
                  especially after he had received particularly gratifying accounts of Harry's
                  reformation and honorable career. Harry frequently wrote to his uncle, and his
                  letters bore the evidence of a newly-awakened dignity of character;—he constantly
                  referred to Deacon Arbor's family, and especially Alek, as having developed "his
                  better genius."
               A better genius had certainly been developed in Harry. His aroused emotions seemed
                  to have called up other and nobler faculties, hitherto dormant. With the opened
                  fountain of his love had been unsealed deeper fountains of thought. He pondered
                  upon the endowments, the capabilities, the responsibilities of life. He reflected
                  that each day's history might be pregnant with an endless series of consequences,
                  and that even now his character might be taking its bent for eternity. The solemn
                  thought matured in his mind to conviction tion. It was not difficult to discard his frivolities. They had lost their
                  power to please. He had become a man, and his manly spirit rejected childish
                  things.
               His keen intellect, no longer obstructed by folly, was more than equal to the
                  assigned studies of his class. He reviewed and accomplished the tasks formerly
                  slighted or evaded, and though he had been once "degraded" and twice "rusticated,"
                  he now, at the close of the term, graduated with the highest honors.
               He immediately repaired to New York, on his way home-ward. His uncle received him
                  with gratified pride. Harry was his favorite nephew; and having once predicted his
                  future success, his pride of opinion had ever since led him to look upon the best
                  side of his character, and now his regard for Harry, and his regard for his own
                  discernment, were equally gratified. He gave a "soiree" in honor of his nephew's
                  honors; and Harry carried his uncle's card of invitation to his friend Alek.
               The two friends were delighted with each other's improvement. Alek saw in his
                  fashionable friend the elevation of those solid elements upon which full reliance
                  and lasting esteem can be based; and Harry saw with surprise how quickly the
                  rustic had acquired a becoming address. In their intimacy he alluded to this
                  improvement, and Alek playfully rejoined, in Harry's old phrase, "O, if I've a
                  genius for anything, it's for gentility."
               Harry inquired about Wolfsden, and Alek gave him the latest advices, and asked how
                  soon he intended to again explore that remote region, and look after his
                  conquests. Harry replied that he had found the natives too refractory, and had
                  abandoned the province to his rival, the heathen missionary.
               "I doubt," said he, "if I have any adherents there, except my good allies the
                  Arbors and Bowlers; and unless they have revolted, the Chinbys."
               "You do not forget the Murrays,—at least, my fair cousin Margaret?" said Alek;
                  for, though he still felt sore upon the subject, he determined to break that icy
                  barrier to perfect confidence.
               "Certainly, I do not forget," said Harry, with more of feeling in his
                  tone than he meant to betray; and then, to correct himself, added, with a forced
                  and unhappy smile, "I shall not forget any who are dear to you."
               Alek immediately apprehended his friend's mistake, more from his manner than his
                  words, and hastened to set him right.
               "But Mrs. Simperkins," said Harry, "told me positively that you were engaged."
               "Mrs. Simperkins is not reliable authority," said Alek. "She told Cousin Margaret
                  that you was a student of divinity. I think you had better hasten to Wolfsden, and
                  'define your position,' as the politicians say."
               "I'll go and disclaim the divinity, at any rate," said Harry, "even if I have to
                  'stump the district,' as the politicians also say."
               He said it with a forced and very solemn gayety. The impassable wall which had so
                  long shut up the way of his heart's longing desire was now thrown down, and hope
                  newborn and doubtful, allured him in the path of promise, whose end was hidden in
                  the mists of uncertainty. But hope soon grows confident when mated with earnest
                  resolve.
               
               "I will go to Wolfsden," soliloquized Harry, "if but to discard the divinity.
                  Provoking Simperkins!"
               In every heart there is a cell formed by nature for connubial love. In generous
                  hearts it is a large cell, and takes up much room, and its walls are expansive,
                  and extend indefinitely to receive and cherish the progeny of tender
                  responsibilities which follow in the train of connubial love. In niggard hearts
                  the cell is small, and its walls are rigid and unyielding; connubial love is
                  cramped for lack of room, and chilled by want of warmth; if love's fond pledglings
                  peer about, they find no entrance, and soon the cell is tenantless, collapsed,
                  obliterated. But whether hearts be generous or niggard, and the connubial cell
                  little or big, it is fitted for but one tenant, and, however other cells may be
                  filled, this still waits inpatient for its proper guest.
               Harry's heart is large. It has many cells, richly stored. In one there only hangs
                  an idolized image upon its spacious walls. The image may be worshipped in the
                  silence of deep love, but its original is beyond his reach. Suddenly hope points a
                  way of access. He is no longer satisfied with the image. He aspires for the
                  substantial bliss.
               "I will go to Wolfsden," said Harry, "if but to disclaim the divinity."
               "To claim the divinity, I guess," replied Alek.
               Harry's soiree at his uncle's was elegant and delightful. He named such guests as
                  he chose, and others were invited with reference to his preferences. Mr. Greening,
                  senior, and lady, came together in the same coach, notwithstanding Harry's opinion
                  that he came round and she cornerwise. Mr. Augustus Greening and his sister Sophia
                  came, with them. Mr. Greening, with partial pride, handed out his lovely daughter,
                  and Augustus dutifully assisted his doting mother. With Alek came Mr. Edward
                  Clevis. Great was that young man's surprise at receiving a card to a soiree at the
                  rich Mr. Boynton's. Alek treated it as a matter of course, but Mr. Clevis justly
                  suspected by whose interest he had received it. He was exceedingly and nervously
                  gratified with the honor. He could see and perhaps speak with the beautiful
                  Sophia, whose idolized image adorned the connubial cell of his expansible heart.
                  It gave him self-confidence to hope for more substantial possibilities. Mr.
                  Greening, his employer, father to the adorable Sophia, would see that others
                  thought him not unworthy of such honor; and perhaps this step would lead to
                  further advantage, and so on to the summit of his hopes. On how slight a
                  foundation will hopeful youth erect a superstructure of happiness! Yet Edward
                  Clevis, though possessing the self-respect which conscious rectitude inspires, was
                  one of the least presumptuous of young men.
               Mr. Mercutio Fitz-Faun was not there. Alek's suggestion to his friend had erased
                  the distinguished name of Fitz-Faun from the list of invitations, and substituted
                  the humble one of Edward Clevis. Fitz-Faun well knew to whom he owed this
                  exclusion, but he cared little for it. It would not facilitate his plans to meet
                  Sophia in company with her father. He held the final issue of the campaign in his
                  own hands, and only waited his own time to give the decisive blow. Like Napoleon,
                  he scorned the feeble machinations of other powers, and revolved in his breast the
                  mighty scheme which should assert and signalize his star-led destiny. "Yet," said
                  he, "this Alek shall none the less be punished. Sir Marc shall—throttle?—no,
                     'scuttle' him."
               Harry was not one to do good offices by halves. Having introduced Mr. Clevis to the soiree, he took care
                  by his own considerate attention to put him at ease, and in a favorable position
                  with the company; and, divining the state of affairs, either by a hint from Alek
                  or by his own observation, he contrived to obtain for the young man the hand of
                  the lovely Sophia in a dance, which opened the way for his presenting refreshments
                  and partaking them with her. His tremulous happiness was too apparent to the
                  amused Sophia; yet she could not be offended with the unspoken sentiments of one
                  who worshipped her beauty, and whose deportment was so respectful, and even
                  reverential.
               "In his proper sphere," said Sophia, "he would be a charming lover."
               Proud Sophia! she considered not that her honored father had once been a humble
                  apprentice. The only elevated sphere is that to which virtuous industry can
                  surely, sooner or later, attain.
               Proud Sophia! Weigh in equal scales your sincere and respectful lover with the
                  heartless and malignant Fitz-Faun. The one rich in the solid endowment of purposes
                  and resolves for earnest life; the other possessing the specious blandishments of
                  fashionable vice. The one would sacrifice his life to guard your honor; the other
                  seeks to sacrifice you to his idle caprice. The one sees and magnifies your
                  merits, and would devote his dearest interests to your happiness; the other counts
                  upon your weakness and frailty, as the means for your ruin. Yet the vain Sophia
                  receives with pride the false homage of Fitz-Faun, and would be embarrassed if he
                  should see her receive the attention of Edward Clevis.
               O, that man and woman might have power to read the hearts of those who seek their
                  love!—that some unerring test were given to detect the false, and prove the true!
                  O, for the life of that higher sphere, where congenial souls are attracted by
                  mutual faith, and where falsehood dares not approach the clear-seeing eye of
                  truth!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               AUTUMNAL breezes fan and loosen the matured foliage of the forest trees. It is
                  pleasant in childhood to be let loose in the wild garden of nature; to range at
                  will over the uneven ground, slippery with polished leaves, and spread with rich
                  abundance of scattered nuts. To see the nimble squirrel leap among the lofty
                  boughs, or dart under the leaves and fill his cheeks with supplies for his winter
                  hoard. His provident economy is his pastime; were there no winter to come, still
                  he would gather nuts for sport. The red-tufted woodpecker flies swiftly among the
                  branches, and, lighting upon the smooth trunk, stands, regardless of the laws of
                  gravitation, and hammers his rapid tattoo above the insects' hidden nests. From
                  the depth of the wood the drum of the partridge is heard, beginning in slow and
                  measured beats, but rapidly increasing in velocity, till the ear can no longer
                  distinguish the intervals. In each open glade or bushy dell the clustering
                  blackberries tempt the eager grasp, but the briery bushes often revenge the rifled
                  fruit.
               Let merry childhood range the uplands, and gather the scattered nuts, and chase
                  the nimble squirrels, and admire the gay plumage of the autumn birds, and listen
                  to the mysterious drum of the distant partridge, and leave fluttering trophies
                  phies of torn garment upon the briery shrubs. The pure air and active pastime
                  shall strengthen the sinews for future usefulness, while expanding minds mature to
                  deeper and higher pursuits.
               But let the thoughtful wanderer range along the river's level bank, where the tall
                  maples, and the spreading beeches, and the giant oaks, scatter from their waving
                  arms the silent falling leaves, glowing with every varying shade of nature's
                  autumn hues. The dark rippling water is decked with myriad trophies of the forest.
                  Its shadowy surface reflects inverted banks and trees. Its tranquil depths teem
                  with quick though silent life. The perch, mailed in scaly armor, lurks in the deep
                  eddies and quiet pools, well known to the truant school-boy. The pickerel, tyrant
                  of ponds and streams, waits in patient stillness among the tall grasses and
                  floating leaves near the river's border, whence he darts upon the venturous frog
                  or excursive minnow. The trout, speckled with vermilion, silver, and gold,
                  frequents where cold springs abound; the chub, or cheven, loves the quick water
                  rippling among the rocks; and the silvery-gliding eel winds among the aquatic
                  plants in still waters; The angler knows the favorite haunts of all his finny
                  prey, and often fills his basket with the struggling victims of his fraudful
                  skill.
               Far from my delight be the cruel pastime to bait the barbed hook with the pierced
                  insect or the writhing worm! Disport yourselves securely, ye scaly inhabitants of
                  the deep pools and swift waters! Often I visit your silent haunts to bathe in your
                  cool element, but not to prey upon your harmless race. Man's sustenance and
                  enjoyment require not the pain and death of inferior creatures, for nature's
                  guiltless bounties are spread on every side.
               
               Let us walk upon the soft turf in the shady orchard, and pause under the trees
                  laden with mellow fruit. How pleasant, how nourishing, how abundant! The
                  neatly-cultivated garden invites our notice. Here is rich supply for present and
                  future luxury. Dinners of many autumn days yet to come shall owe their abundant
                  variety to these fruitful beds of beets, and parsnips and onions, and those long
                  rows of cabbages and beans; to that patch of turnips and corner of celery, and
                  those spreading vines of squashes. Green peas and ripe currants and cherries have
                  had their day; but the purple plums, and the yellow pears, and luscious melons,
                  take their place in the list of luxuries. The garden is the delight of flowery
                  spring, the storehouse of summer and autumn, and the bountiful source of the
                  winter cellar's ample supply.
               Already are the fields of grain gathered into the barn, but the cornfields still
                  wait the harvest. The heavy ears rustle among their white husks above the huge
                  yellow pumpkins which strew the soil. There will be merry evening huskings when
                  the crop shall be piled into the barn, and all the family with social neighbor
                  friends shall gather around the heap, with laugh, and song, and merry joke, and
                  brisk reply, and vaunting boasts, and trials of expertness, while successive
                  baskets are heaped with golden ears, and borne on broad and willing shoulders to
                  the granary.
               Heap high your granaries, ye young men of broad shoulders, and strong backs, and
                  willing minds! How may your cheerful hearts expand with all the genial
                  virtues,—your cheerful hearts, never fated to know the fear of soul-contracting
                  want!
               And you, above all, fair daughters of rural abodes, pure as your mountain air,
                  sweet as the wild-flowers of your fields, bright as your sunny hills, gay as your
                  warbling birds, generous as the soul of all-bestowing nature! Ye have nurtured my
                  childhood, and rejoiced my youth, and, blessed my manhood. My love shall repay
                  your care, and reward your tenderness to the advancing infirmities of age.
               Churn the yellow butter; press the white curd; pick and prepare the sweet
                  preserves and the sharp pickles stir the bubbling pudding; knead the white bread,
                  and mix the brown; roll the cream-shortened pastry, and overspread the broad
                  platters and the deep pans; pare and slice the crispy apples; stew the ponderous
                  pumpkins; beat the new-laid eggs, and fill the expectant crust; with watchful eye
                  explore the glowing oven, and when the rightly-tempered heat shall serve, commit
                  your labors to its perfecting power. Now spread the table, draw the tea, and blow
                  the horn. Soon shall my willing feet obey the welcome. Sweet shall be my repast,
                  prepared by your neat hands, and partaken in your cheerful company. Though my
                  hands be hardened with labor, and my face be embrowned by exposure, and my clothes
                  lack the dainty gloss and my tongue the smooth polish of city refinement, yet have
                  I the wisdom to understand your worth, and the heart to reciprocate your faithful
                  care.
               When dainty-fingered foppery, from Fashion's beaten walks, shall come to court
                  your partial favor, let not your eyes be dazzled nor your judgment be deluded by
                  the unaccustomed outside show. Weigh with double scrutiny the worth set off by
                  double pretence. But, if your heart incline to yield, let some faithful friend
                  inquire what impartial fame reports. Poor is the hope from the plighted love of
                  the inconstant, the selfish, the vain, the idle, the imprudent, the
                     improvident, Above all, as you would
                  shun a life of mortifying humiliation or disgraceful strife, reject the imperious,
                  the exacting, the jealous, the envious, the easily offended and quick to
                  retaliate! Better beneath the paternal roof to keep your unwasted freshness till a
                  worthier destiny shall offer, or till Time's finger shall write the lines of
                  ancient maidenhood upon your peaceful brow.
               New England homes, New England comforts and enjoyments, New England intellect and
                  beauty, New England domestic and social life, here abound the solid virtues, and
                  all that is of permanent value in elegant refinement. In her healthy clime the
                  human germ expands in its highest perfection. Domestic duties direct and nurture
                  its early strength. Its common-school system calls forth, by skilful instruction
                  and worthy emulation, its native powers. All become informed, and some in every
                  town rise to eminence. These supply the learned professions, the places of public
                  life, and the remunerative pursuits and enterprises of manufactures and commerce,
                  while many, discarding ambition, remain to adorn and elevate society at home.
                  Females seldom permanently leave the vicinity of their native place, and therefore
                  New England country society has a still larger portion of intellectual women,
                  whose fame, though confined to their own circle, no less effectually serves the
                  higher purposes of humanity.
               Wolfsden has sent forth its proportion of enterprising men, and retains the
                  material of many more. That group of younglings issuing from yon red schoolhouse,
                  with glowing cheeks and wide-awake eyes, though rough and rude in manner now, are
                  in good hands, and will fulfil good hopes. Careful mothers gently bend the pliant
                  shoots of manhood, and shower good influences upon susceptible hearts, which shall
                  mature into right thoughts and firm principles. Gentle sisters and cousins, and
                  favorite female companions, shall soften and polish their manners, and excite the
                  desire of being loved. Life's opening prospects and responsibilities shall awaken
                  serious resolves and efforts, till the wild, thoughtless fry shall be transformed
                  into men, ready to take manhood's stations and duties.
               Those little bashful girls, who hide at the stranger's approach, shall soon enough
                  learn the powers and privileges of their sex. They will put on airs, they will
                  coquet, they will tease, they will affect disdain. they will jilt, they will play
                  unnumbered mad pranks; and then, like the unbroken colt, which has spurned its
                  pursuer, and proved its ability to maintain its freedom, they will relent, and
                  receive the matrimonial curb with docile grace, and at once step into the sedate
                  ranks of young wives and mothers, to lead another generation by the same devious
                  paths to the same fair destiny.
               But some will decline the matrimonial bond, and prefer their maiden freedom. Not
                  less happy are they in their contented singleness. It is not determined celibacy,
                  but prolonged girlhood. They contemplate matrimony, but place it in the uncertain
                  future. They are in no haste to give up the privileges of maiden life—of
                  attracting and rejecting, of plotting, expecting, debating, delaying, denying,
                  disappointing and being disappointed, and then, like Penelope with her web, again
                  renewing the interminable task.
               Happy maidens! Still weave and unravel your unprogressing web, while impatient
                  lovers wait around. Life has various delights and destinies. Yours is not less
                  bright, and worthy than others.
               Fair Lucinda—she of the slender waist and many curls— still helps her mother in the mysteries of the
                  kitchen. Yet she is ever ready for the parlor. Her hair is glossy. Her ringlets
                  know and keep their place. Her dress receives no smutch nor unseemly rumple. When
                  a stranger knocks, she lays aside her apron, and is at once the fine lady of the
                  parlor, netting the everlasting purse, and endowed with all the graces which shall
                  bewitch the new comer. So her reverend father, his books of divinity laid
                  carefully open, and his study-chair ready for his reception, comes in by a back
                  way from inspecting his cattle, or conducting his farm, and receives his guests in
                  clerical state.
               Let not the parson be blamed for whatever of sham may be implied in
                  these dexterous arts. They are required by his position. It is tacitly understood
                  by his parish that he shall not impair the dignity of his office as minister of
                  Wolfsden, by doing anything or knowing anything that is unministerial, or that is
                  useful. A neighboring minister lost his parish in consequence of putting on
                  working-day clothes and holding his plough a day or two in public view, and
                  refusing to promise better fashions. He replied that his Master was a
                  carpenter, and his most eminent predecessors in office fishermen and tent-makers,
                  and he therefore felt it a duty to do with all his might whatever his
                     hands might find to do, since he did not neglect his parish
                  duties. Some thought his plea reasonable, especially as his salary was small, and
                  his talents and zeal above the common order; but the malcontents prevailed, and
                  Parson Probe left Noodleville to a softer-handed successor.
               Parson Boreman, therefore, though he indulges in the luxury of out-door labor,
                  preserves the meritorious pretence of being always in his study. To be sure,
                  everybody knows the facts of the case, in his private capacity for everybody body
                  knows everything about everybody in Wolfsden; but everybody in his public capacity
                  knows nothing about it, but assumes exactly the contrary, and therefore no
                  principle is violated, nor dignity impaired.
               Parsons have hearts and consciences even as others. Parson Boreman has probably
                  reflected that old Bang's fatal relapse and tragic end might have been avoided but
                  for his unlucky visit. Whatever the motive, and we will not harbor the suspicion
                  that it was but to strengthen his influence in Deacon Arbor's neighborhood, where
                  it was rather declining,—he was very kind to poor Susan and her son Ax. To the
                  latter he offered a home and a good common-school education, if he would remain in
                  his service till of age. The Bowler family, where Susan and her boy remained,
                  would like to keep them both, but advise that Ax should accept the parson's offer,
                  as affording better prospects. Ax, who remembered his first benefactor, the
                  schoolmaster, with gratitude and admiration, had ambition also to become a
                  schoolmaster, and stipulated accordingly. The parson promised to aid him with
                  extra instruction to that extent, if he should prove capable and worthy of it,
                  which Ax considered a fair condition, and the bargain was made, with the consent
                  of all concerned. So Ax served the parson. He proved a trustworthy lad, ready and
                  pleasant, and became a favorite in the house. His ambition for learning was
                  commended by the old lady, and applauded by Lucinda, who offered to hear the
                  lessons he might find time to get. Ax was thankful for the favor. He found a good
                  deal of time; he was up early, and found time where most people do not think of
                  looking for it. He found time in the evening, when others might be too drowsy to
                  notice it. He got his "stent," and made time out of that. All he gained was diligently employed with his book,
                  that he might be a schoolmaster. Such is the power of a particular object in
                  stimulating youthful ambition to its best efforts. The general principle that
                  learning is better than houses and lands," though eloquently urged by official
                  school-visitors, and written in every copy-book, fails of the effect so easily
                  produced by the promise of some particular reward for diligence. Ax learned fast.
                  What he learned he remembered. His look of cheerful intelligence won him favor.
                  Lucinda was proud of her pupil. Like Desdemona, she wished Heaven had sent her
                  such a—boy. Be patient, fair Lucinda! Heaven is all bounteous!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               WHERE the road lies along the side of yonder hill, which, as you pass by, towers
                  on the right away up into the sky, and on the left slants away down into a dark
                  valley,—so far down that its tall trees look like bushes,—along that quiet road,
                  looking like a green-bordered ribbon bound on the mountain's forehead, let us
                  loiter, and pick ripe blackberries by the way. How high up in the world, and yet
                  how solitary! Nature's softened voices float in the stilly air,—the busy insect
                  hum, the murmur of the far-off falls, the barking of the distant fox, the
                  screaming eagle, the clamorous crow, the drumming partridge, and often the
                  muttering thunder heard afar in a cloudless sky.
               As we look downward far behind us, the fair home and extensive fields of Deacon
                  Arbor look like a little green nook in the midst of a vast surrounding forest.
                  Beyond that, another green spot, reclaimed from Nature's wild domain, marks where
                  the Bowlers live. Beyond that, other patches of green, with houses and barns which
                  look so small that pigmies and mice would seem their appropriate inhabitants,
                  stretch away, growing smaller and smaller to the sight, till lost among the dark,
                  forest-clad mountains. The road upon which we now linger winds along among them,
                  and links them together, as children
                  string green leaves upon a slender thread, and form a waving garland.
               As we pass onward and leave the view behind, the road declines and is lost in a
                  woody valley; but it reappears on hills and mountain sides beyond, still strung
                  with green patches like a waving garland, and pigmy houses like little pictures,
                  on the stringed leaves.
               On our right, a little farther on, before we descend far, is a pleasant-looking
                  house on a pleasant spot, where the early morning sunshine comes, and the last
                  rays of sunset linger. The house looks old, but cheerful in its old age; it is
                  innocent of paint, or other needless ornament. An ample orchard overlooks it from
                  the rear, and in its turn it overlooks an ample garden in front. Fields and
                  pastures, dotted with various cattle, extend on every side. It is evidently a home
                  where peace and plenty abound. It is Major Murray's. Let us enter.
               A cheerful matron, whom the suns of sixty summers have matured to a becoming
                  ripeness, welcomes us. She is busy in various matters between the kitchen fire and
                  kitchen table, transferring white things from the table to the fire, and brown
                  things from the fire to the table, still entertaining us with pleasant inquiries
                  and remarks. Her active industry is her life. Like Milton's Hobson, her destiny is
                  that she shall never rot, while she can still jog on and keep her trot. Remove
                  from her the cares and labors which employ each cheerful day, and her earnest
                  spirit, now rejoicing in its active sphere, would pine and perish, in discontent.
                  Should some imp of evil offer to aid her labors, and demand employment, as once
                  the devil did of the wizard Michael Scott, she would seat him at her table, and
                  stuff him with good things till his evil should become good. A hungry vagabond is
                  a godsend, before whom she delights to spread a bountiful supply, that he may eat
                  till he can eat no more, and store the residue in his empty sack for future use.
                  Give her some pretence for ostentatious display, and with what bustling pride will
                  she show you the treasures of her well-ordered house,—her dairy, with its stores
                  of sweet yellow butter and savory cheese; her chests and dressers filled with
                  bleached linen and fleecy blankets, all the products of her busy wheel and loom;
                  and the patchwork quilts and lamb's-wool stockings which have employed her leisure
                  hours. Such ever be New England mothers and aunts!
               Enter her choicely-kept parlor, whose polished floor, consecrated to neatness, is
                  seldom trod by sacrilegious feet. See the upright shining chairs, and round table
                  made to move on hidden hinges from its horizontal plane to a vertical position, by
                  the side of its tripod pedestal; and the looking-glass of curious frame,
                  surmounted with peacock's plumage; and the fir-set of well-polished brass. All
                  have served their stately use for two generations, and still are in their
                  fashion's prime. Look with reverence upon those oak-framed pictures of hallowed
                  scenes, where Abraham lifts the sacrificial knife; where Lot leaves the doomed
                  city, and his saline spouse; where Samson, with asinine weapon, smites the
                  Philistines hip and thigh; and where Saul evokes the hoary witch of Endor. By the
                  side of these triumphs of xylographic art hangs the genealogical tree of golden
                  fruit, inscribed with the sum of all human history—births, marriages, deaths.
               Up the narrow and angular flight of stairs, protected by curiously turned and
                  twisted balustrades, we may pass to a dainty chamber on either hand. That one is
                  the spare chamber, kept for choice occasions, and guests of note. Its high, smooth bed of gay patchwork and diamond
                  quilting, and all its prim furniture, proclaim the matron's care, and justify her
                  decent pride. Let us award the praises due, and linger no longer.
               The opposite door opens upon a view where we might love to linger long. The
                  chamber is smaller. Its two windows open, one toward the east, upon a far-extended
                  view of green fields, and pleasant valleys, and winding waters, and distant farms,
                  and an inter able forest beyond. The other looks towards the north, upon hills
                  surmounted by mountains, rising higher and higher still, in gloomy grandeur, to
                  the clouds. The neat and tasteful arrangement of the room shows it to be the
                  favorite resort of a female occupant. A few unframed paintings in water-colors,
                  and drawings in crayon, showing taste and nicety in their execution, are pinned
                  against the walls. Upon the mantel-piece is ranged a compact tier of books,
                  embracing all science, abridged or in full, from a, b, c, to algebra; and all
                  religion, from the "New England Primer" to the "Whole Duty of Man;" and all
                  literature, from the "Ladies' Looking-glass" to the Lost Paradise of Milton; and
                  all romance, from Bunyan's Pilgrim to "Thaddeus of Warsaw." but why detain the
                  reader with descriptions of these? Because the heedless reader will not note them,
                  when once admitted to behold the fair occupant of this favored room.
               The pen of history holds a magic power. At its "open sesame" the secret chambers
                  are disclosed. Softly let us enter, lest we disturb the genius of the quiet
                  place.
               She sits at her table absorbed in thought. Her light basket, filled with various
                  implements and patterns of female industry, is laid aside. The fair hand rests
                  upon the snowy page, where she traces lines so delicate that they scarce soil its
                  whiteness. The face is eloquent with thought, more beautiful than words. Are you a
                  phrenologist? Admire that head! How the delighted fingers measure those organs
                  replete with everything that is witty, and delicate, and wise, and benevolent, and
                  reverential, and self-reliant, and just, and kind, and true! Fowler might here
                  afford, without price, the flattering "chart" which he sells to others for money;
                  for its truthfulness would soothe his too often tried conscience. Are you
                     no phrenologist? Then look upon her face, and let your eyes read
                  with rapture that heaven-impressed page of virgin beauty, love, and truth. She
                  seems absorbed in thought. Poetic images crowd upon her active brain. Slowly she
                  ranges them in order, and marshals them in verses, pensive, plaintive, even
                  mournful, yet, like herself, sweet in their sadness. 
                     
                        "I'm weary of this weary world, I'm weary of its grief;
                        My sickened spirit turns away, and vainly seeks relief;
                        In vain, in vain I seek for peace, in vain I pray to know
                        If pure, unsullied happiness dwells in this vale of woe;
                        My wounded soul can find no joy, no healing balm, to stay
                        The deep and fearful gush of griefs that on my spirit weigh.
                        On through the dim, dark dreariness of coming shadowy years,
                        My fancy roves, and meets a waste—a wilderness of fears;
                        So dark, so drear, that death's dread vale to me would be more sweet,
                        And all the terrors of the tomb I would not fear to meet.
                     
                     
                        One voice is wanting to my ear,—one deep, low, silvery, voice,
                        To breathe its tones of music out, and bid my heart rejoice; 
                        One glance forth from that flashing eye, to chase away my night,
                        One glance of love; O, would it not overwhelm me in its light!
                        To hear love's own sweet language fall from his dear lips on me! 
                        Peace, peace, my fondly-picturing heart!—it is but mockery.
                        It may not be, it cannot be, for 'woman's lot' is thine;
                        Concealment shall feed on thy cheek, and thou in sorrow pine.
                     
                     
                     
                        "Cannot I bid my heart be free? Will not my woman's pride
                        Come now, in its o'ermastering strength, my wasted love to hide?
                        Shall all the gushing tenderness which others sought to wake
                        Come rushing from unfathomed depths, with its own weight to break?
                        I will not yield me up to dreams; my spirit shall not bow
                        In tame submission to a spell his heart can never know.
                        I will awake my slumbering soul; I will again be free,
                        And change into forgetfulness all my idolatry; 
                        No flush shall deepen on my brow, no trembling seize my frame,
                        When from the gay and heartless throng I hear his own loved name.
                     
                     
                        "'Tis vain! I wreathe my face in joy, and teach my lip to smile,
                        But, O! my saddened, aching heart seems bursting all the while; 
                        For sorrow's wasting blight has found its way into my heart,
                        And now hope's budding visions fade, youth's morning dreams depart;
                        And the bright, sunny smile of joy, that on my cheek should bloom,
                        Has given place to sorrow's sigh, the gushing tear of gloom;
                        And joyous glances of the eye, that once could flash with mirth,
                        Have gone, and tell in quenched beams how fade the joys of earth.
                     
                     
                        "They tell me I am beautiful, and speak to me of love;
                        But life too early lost its charm—their praises cannot
                           move;
                        I listen to the honeyed words they breathe into my ear,—
                        They fall like Afric's parched sands on the wild desert drear.
                        I listen, and I smile, perchance, or wipe a tear away;
                        O, might the hope of that blest world, unsullied by decay,
                        Buoy my sad soul above this gloom, above this earthly strife,
                        And bid me plume my fainting wings for realms of endless life!"
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THUS the fair Margaret, in life's bright morning, meditated and mournfully mused.
                  And thus, full often, the sensitive soul, as yet knowing nothing of the hard ways
                  and heavy burthens of earnest life, faints ere the early dew is dried from its
                  morning path of flowers. Soothe your sorrows, ye sensitive souls! Your appointed
                  duties and destinies may not thus be evaded, nor can you as yet "plume your
                  fainting wings for realms of endless life." You must learn to bear bravely and
                  strongly strive. Your strength and faith must be increased by patient use, till
                  your power shall be greater than your burthens, and yon shall walk in your
                  appointed way without weariness, and run with unfainting speed. So shall you
                  fairly aspire to nobler destinies, and plume your stronger wings for realms of
                  endless life.
               The fair Margaret sat and meditated, and mournfully mused. A slight knock, and her
                  lovely cousin Frances entered. Her cheeks glowed with exercise, and her eyes shone
                  with intelligence. The fair friends embraced, and kissed. Thus with sweet
                  affection do angels meet.
               "Come," said Fanny, "I have come for you to take tea with us. A friend has come. I
                  was forbidden to tell whom, but you are wanted to make us all perfectly happy.
                     Don't ask who; it will be a pleasant
                  surprise, and, besides, it is so agreeably provoking not to know, and to guess
                  wrong, and to anticipate and be disappointed. But it is somebody who will be
                  delighted to see you, and whom you will be delighted to see, unless you are more
                  unlike me and every other girl than I guess. So make haste, there's a good cousin!
                  And put on your prettiest things; but not too particular,—look
                  pretty, but not grand."
               Margaret soon started off with her lively and lovely cousin. She seemed not at all
                  "weary of this weary world." How poets deal in fiction! Her step was light and
                  elastic, and her countenance rivalled her cousin's in radiant and joyful
                  beauty.
               "There they are, coming to meet us!" said Fanny, while yet half their way was
                  before them.
               Surely enough, they were coming. Billy and Tommy, escorting somebody. Who could it
                  be? It was not Alek, not so tall and not so stout, but more graceful. Who could be
                  that somebody?
               Billy and Tommy seemed quite at home with somebody.
                     Somebody seemed giving lessons in oratory to Billy and Tommy; for
                  Tommy would mount upon a bank, and stretch forth his hand and put forward his
                  foot, apparently in the exordium of a speech; and then somebody would
                  seem to correct him, and show how to do it better, by advancing his foot not quite
                  so far, and stretching forth his hand more moderately. And then Tommy would begin
                  again upon the improved model; and then Billy would mount, and show how he could
                  do it. They were evidently practising oratory,—perhaps for the coming occasion.
                  Who was somebody?
               
               Margaret looked earnestly at somebody, and then inquiringly at
                  Fanny,—but Fanny was dummy.
               And so they loitered and lingered lovingly along. Margaret seemed now the tired
                  one,—at least, so Fanny thought. She seemed to hesitate about proceeding at all.
                  She seemed even to meditate turning back. But she did not turn back; only she
                  turned aside and plucked fern twigs, and wild briers, and seemed discomposed, and
                  did not look at Fanny while speaking; and Fanny asked her if she was well.
                  Margaret answered yes, and came and gave her hand to Fanny. Her hand was cold, and
                  her clasp tighter than usual, as if nerved by resolute effort; and they went on to
                  meet the boys and—somebody.
               As they approached, Tommy and Billy, earnest with tidings, like Cushi and Amihaaz
                  the son of Zadok, outran each other to announce the already very obvious fact
                  that
               "Harry Boynton has come, and we are having a famous time!"
               "My name is Norval on the Grampian hills!" shouted Tommy, hurriedly, that he might
                  be the first to show his improved oratory. But Billy interrupted him.
               "No, that's not right. Look!" and, placing himself oratorically, he spoke on the
                  improved model:
               "My name is Norval! on the Grampian hills"—
               By this time their oratorical oracle, Harry Boynton, had come up. The onset of the
                  boys had broken the ice of formality and the spell of embarrassment, and Margaret
                  gave her hand to Harry, and welcomed him with self-possessed grace. But she saw in
                  a moment, for she read it in his sparkling eyes, and deep voice, and tremulous
                  lips, that he loved her—(let woman alone for that!)—and she knew that he had come to tell her of his love; and
                  she cast down her eyes, that no one should see the joy which gladdened them; and
                  she, looked and spoke at the boys, that no one should see how the red
                  suffused her cheeks.
               "But," said she, "he shall not know that I love him, nor think me too easily won."
                  And so she schooled herself to cool dignity and formal decorum, and wondered how
                  he would proceed, and when he would propose.
               Fanny suspected something of the truth. There is a sympathy of intelligence
                  between hearts entwined in sisterly love, and each shares the other's secret
                  thoughts. Besides, Harry, who arrived the previous evening, had that morning a
                  long and private conversation with Helen, who, shortly afterward, requested her to
                  invite Margaret, and cautioned her not to tell who was the visitor. And so Fanny's
                  curiosity stimulated her sagacity to suspect something.
               There was in Wolfsden at that time what is there called a
                  reformation. In other places the like is called a
                     revival. We cannot give a perfect account of Wolfsden without
                  including its "reformations." They occur sometimes twice or thrice in a year, and
                  sometimes but once in two or three years. Generally they are local,—in the east or
                  west or north or south portion of the town,—but sometimes they spread, or occur in
                  different quarters simultaneously, so as to include the whole town. The philosophy
                  of these movements is not settled. Like other phenomena of society, they are the
                  result of general laws, whose operations may be traced in all nations and ages.
                  The solemn feasts and jubilees of the Jews; the idolatrous festivals and
                  processions of Egypt; the eleusinian mysteries of Greece; the pagan saturnalia and
                  Catholic carnivals of Rome; the Mahometan pilgrimages; the frenzies of oriental
                  devotees, and the superstitious juggleries of heathen tribes, all are
                  manifestations of the soul's spiritual affinities, struggling for higher
                  associations. Among the most ignorant and debased the only result is wild
                  disorder, folly, and cruelty; among the enlightened, a true and fervid piety is
                  sometimes unduly stimulated and misled by emotional excitement, and the religion
                  which should be as a river of life, nourishing and beautifying its borders, with
                  equal flow, is a tide of uncertain motions, now inundating its shores, and now
                  leaving bare its barren sands. Instead of being, like Christian's roll, a support
                  and guide on hills of difficulty, and over the enchanted grounds of temptation,
                  and through the valley of the shadow of death, it tempts to by-paths and short
                  passages, which look toward the celestial city, but lead to the dark mountains of
                  stumbling.
               The periodical religious excitements, or reformations of Wolfsden, often produced
                  good fruit,—twenty, sixty, and some an hundred fold; but many of the converts
                  relapsed; so that, though one fifth or sixth of the population was converted
                  annually, yet each successive reformation found as much to do as the preceding.
                  Yet, except so far as they might prevent something better, they were not
                  unprofitable efforts. It is better that men should be awakened to their immortal
                  interests, though ever so rudely, than that they should still sleep in the stupor
                  of sin; for of the many awakened a few are saved.
               One of the series, of meetings was to be held this evening at the school-house
                  before referred to, in Deacon Arbor's district. Elder Kraken, a great reformation
                  minister, was expected to preach. Apart from the attractions of a famous minister,
                  it was the duty of the people of the district to assemble and fill the house. This, and another good
                  motive led Helen to encourage the proposition to attend the meeting; and,
                  therefore, after tea, she and Margaret, and Fanny, and Harry, and the boys, went
                  over to the school-house.
               The services began at early candle-lighting, and they arrived as the people were
                  collecting. Elder Kraken soon made his appearance. He was a man advanced in years,
                  yet still in the full vigor of his powers. His head was a little bald, and well
                  constructed for his calling. The organs of benevolence, firmness, reverence,
                  self-esteem, ideality, and combativeness, were well developed, giving that
                  combination, which is favorable to fervent devotion and fearless zeal, and to
                  which his vigorous bodily powers gave full effect. His preaching was earnest, and
                  in its way eloquent, though rather dogmatical in tenets, and very barbarous in
                  style,—full of the idioms, technical terms, uncouth words, figurative phrases, and
                  peculiar expressions, which make up the dialect that many persons think necessary
                  for the expression of religious sentiments.
               So remarkable was his preaching moulded in that style, that Harry was often
                  puzzled to translate his meaning, and was used when he should have been impressed.
                  Yet he listened with becoming seriousness, which was the more favorably
                  interpreted by the observing Minister, as he had by accident taken one of the
                  seats appropriated to the converts, and those "under conviction."
               After the sermon and other exercises, the meeting took the form of an "inquiry
                  meeting," in which the minister separately addressed those upon the seats where
                  Harry sat, calling upon some whom he knew personally to "speak in the name of the
                  Lord," and addressing exhortations and questions to others. Harry, who served the
                  style of answer, evidently expected and duly repeated, was tolerably well prepared
                  for the examination when his turn came; for the minister naturally took him for
                  one of the converts.
               "Well, my young brother," said the minister, "how is the state of your mind,—has
                  the Lord dealt bountifully with you?"
               
                  Harry. Yes, the Lord has been very good to me.
               
                  Minister. Blessed be the Lord! And you feel that the filthy rags of
                  your own righteousness are taken away? You are washed and made clean?
               
                  Harry. Yes, I have been washed and made clean.
               
                  Minister. Glory to God! And you are sure that you have a comfortable
                  and well-grounded hope?
               
                  Harry (thinking of Margaret). The hope that I have is very
                  comfortable; but I have some doubts.
               
                  Minister. Praise the Lord! Your doubts will soon be swallowed up in
                  faith. You mean to seek and strive till you obtain the promise?
               
                  Harry (still thinking of Margaret). Yes; that is what I came
                  for.
               
                  Minister. Amen, brother! Be of good courage, and you will get the
                  reward; for you have put on the wedding garment, and put off the old man with his
                  deeds.
               
                  Harry (thinking of the minister, and very willing to put him off). I
                  hope so.
               After the examination was over, the minister requested all about him to kneel,
                  which Harry, with the rest, complied with; and after a fervent prayer, he shook
                  hands with all, giving them encouragement and exhortation, and, especially
                  addressing Harry, to whose good looks he took a liking, he bade him strive to make his calling and election
                  sure, and to contend earnestly for the prize, and the Lord would prosper him.
               Harry was much vexed to be again made so conspicuous an object of ministerial
                  misunderstanding, which he could not well correct without embarrassing the
                  important objects of the meeting; and, as they returned homeward; he observed to
                  Helen that the people of Wolfsden seemed resolved to make him a saint in spite of
                  himself.
               "I suppose," said he, "they consider it a duty to sinners 'to compel
                  them to come in.'
               "The minister took you for one of the converts," said Helen, "because you took the
                  convert's seat."
               "Then," said Harry, "I had better have sat in the seat of the scornful. However, I
                  am in the descending scale, and shall soon find my proper level, for they made me
                  a divinity student, or perhaps a doctor of divinity formerly. Probably they mean
                  to let me down by degrees."
               "O, you have been ranked a reprobate since that time," said Fanny. "Mr. Twangson,
                  the heathen missionary, excommunicated you to save himself, some folks say."
               "And I have understood," said Harry, "that he represented me as a deceiver and
                  mocker, which was untrue, for I was innocent of their blunder. I think," continued
                  he, "that I must take some opportunity to vindicate myself in this matter
                  publicly; for, apart from other considerations, it does not suit my pride to be
                  ranked with hypocrites or scoffers."
               "I think you may properly explain the facts in some conference meeting," said
                  Helen; "and, if you do it without reflecting severely upon others, it will be well
                  received."
               She then informed him how he had, through not knowing the usages of the place,
                  confirmed the report of his religious character; so that Harry was able in a
                  future "conference meeting" to explain how certain mistakes arose without his
                  fault, and to rectify his position. This he did in so proper and conciliating a
                  manner that Elder Kraken accepted the explanation, and only "regretted that so
                  talented a young man was not yet quite ready to come up to the help of the Lord
                  against the mighty."
               Harry and Margaret parted from the rest of the company when they arrived at Deacon
                  Arbor's, for Helen had told Margaret that Harry wished to walk home with her, and,
                  therefore, she would not invite her to stop at her house. And so Harry walked with
                  Margaret alone.
               It was a beautiful autumnal evening. The moon played bo-peep between the fleeting
                  silvery clouds. A gentle breeze fanned the air. The whip-poor-will from the near
                  grove chanted his oft-repeated counsel. The cricket chirruped in the wall; and the
                  fox barked at intervals in the distant forest.
               The writer of this history regrets being compelled to substitute these commonplace
                  circumstances for the story which the reader justly expects to be told; but, being
                  uncompromisingly opposed to the license, too often indulged, of inventing
                  imaginary incidents and sentiments, when what really transpired is unknown, he
                  must confess his ignorance of Harry's and Margaret's conversation after they left
                  their friends at Deacon Arbor's, or how they beguiled their homeward way. It may,
                  however, be observed that Margaret,
                  though she afterwards indited many a sonnet in her solitude, wrote nothing more
                  about being "weary of this weary world." And as for Harry, it is enough to say at
                  present, that he did not hang himself,—being reserved for another destiny.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               SIR MARC BARCHIER, K. B., sat the splendid saloon of "Professor Pericrania,"
                  proprietor of the "Emporium of Fashion," in Broadway. The long row of stately
                  chairs was filled with incumbents, upon whom the expert assistants and students of
                  the presiding professor demonstrated their tonsorial talents.
               "Turn!" said the professor, solemnly, as one of the finished specimens of his
                  skill left the chair of state.
               Sir Marc removed his glossy cravat, turned down his shining collar, and
                  surrendered himself to the operator, who, with the sure and dextrous skill which
                  genius, aided by philosophy and cultivated by patient practice, can attain unto,
                  with the aid of saponaceous cream, smooth-gliding razor, clicking scissors,
                  caloric curling-tongs, fragrant oils, and magic evolution of brush and comb, at
                  last put the finishing touch upon the noblest part of the knight's noble
                  structure.
               Along Broadway, after due acknowledgment of the professor's aid, the knight
                  proceeded. As he walked leisurely and dignifiedly adown that fashionable avenue,
                  sometimes glancing superciliously upon the humble crowd of plodders in life's
                  lowly vale, or nodding graciously upon the aristocratic occur pants of
                  proudly-passing coaches, what friend of humanity, observing the vast disparity between mortals of one
                  common mould, but would sigh that fortune should make such wide distinctions among
                  men, endowing some front birth with the golden spoon of pride and luxury, and
                  others with the wooden ladle of poverty and debasement.
               His hair perfumed and shining, was surmounted by a hat of Genin's latest style.
                  His glossy whiskers and mustaches curled and shone with redundant oil. His shirt
                  of resplendent whiteness was adorned with diamond studs. A magnificent breast-pin
                  glittered upon his bosom. The tie of his cravat would have won an approving nod
                  from Brummel. His vest of richest fabric was hung with burnished chains of gold,
                  giving security to his sumptuous watch and richly-mounted eye-glass. His coat was
                  cut by Swell, and his pantaloons by Strutt. His French boots were imported by
                  Crimpp, and his kids supplied by Fripp. His ebony cane was the present of a duke,
                  and his rings the gifts of duchesses, countesses, and ladies fair of high degree.
                  His stature was massive and imposing. His eyebrows were bushy, and if his nose was
                  somewhat snub, his prominent cheeks made full amends. Unassuming men turned aside
                  to give him room. Languishing ladies looked up with pleased approval; and saucy
                  news-boys vulgarly shouted, "There goes a swell!"
               He moved along the thronged way, as some proud bark laden with the costly tribute
                  of foreign climes is borne majestically with full-spread sails and pennons flying,
                  through fleets of petty fishermen and other ignominious craft that infest the
                  ocean.
               Arrived at the Astor House, he stood a while beneath its massive portico, among
                  others of like lofty bearing, and leisurely scanned the passers-by; sometimes
                  tapping his polished snuff-box, or twirling the pendent seals of his watch.
               Soon a well-known person ascended the steps, and, with a significant look, entered
                  the hotel. The gallant knight followed him. They ascended different flights of
                  stairs, and with a turn of a key entered a private and well-furnished chamber. The
                  well-known person threw himself upon the sofa, and motioned the knight to a
                  chair.
               The well-known person was Fitz-Faun. He had decided Alek to be incorrigible, and
                  had therefore resolved to turn him over to Sir Marc; and he now dictated his
                  instructions to that chivalrous knight; with Napoleonic terseness.
               "Anything," said he, "to put him out of my way for a few weeks. Scuttling or
                  stranding, or whatever your sailor lingo likes, so it be effectual. Some
                  splintered ribs, or a broken nose, or an eye spoiled, or any other decided
                  disfigurement or disablement, that will keep him in limbo long
                  enough, will do. But manage it so as to swear the blame on him. I should like to
                  throw him out of old Greening's confidence. If you can get him to take a glass of
                  wine with few drops of this flavoring in it (handing a vial), you can then manage
                  him as you like. He shirked it the other evening, or he would have been in the
                  watch-house before morning, and in the Tombs before getting sober. But I put him
                  into your mess; you must have wit enough among you to manage him. But, mind, I am
                  not to be mixed up with it. You take the management and risk for the pay."
               Sir Marc undertook the service with alacrity, being stimulated by the five hundred
                  dollars,—half in advance. Less sums have purchased baser services in later
                  times.
               
               He was well aware of the principle involved in Mrs. Glass famous receipt for
                  cooking a hare, which makes it requisite first to catch a hare. The same
                  prerequisite is indispensable to the success of any plan for "scuttling" young
                  men. Sir Marc planned his enterprise with due regard to first principles.
               He requested Fitz-Faun to write to Mr. Arbor, in his name, a card of invitation to
                  his rooms in the Howard House, that afternoon at six o'clock, observing that his
                  own hand was a little cramped.
               Fitz-Faun, with a contemptuous look, took paper and wrote:
               "Sir Marc Barchier, K B., snob by Profession, blackleg cut-throat by
                  practice, invites A. Arbor to his rooms at Howard House, this evening at six
                  o'clock saving a design to scuttle him."
               "Will this answer?" said Fitz-Faun, handing him the note.
               
               Sir Marc, whom nature had not gifted with the art of reading, but who made it a
                  point not to acknowledge the deficiency, took the paper, and, glancing over it,
                  approved it, and requested Fitz-Faun to direct it. Fitz-Faun laughed at
                     this detection of the knight's ignorance; and, tearing up
                  the note, wrote another to the effect that "Sir Marc Barchier, K. B., would be
                  happy to receive A. Arbor, Esq., at his rooms in Howard House, this evening at six
                  o'clock; or, if the appointment should interfere with other engagements, at such
                  other time as Mr. Arbor might appoint." Calling a servant, he sent the letter,
                  directing the messenger to wait for an answer.
               In due time the messenger returned with a note to the effect that Mr. Arbor would
                  wait upon Sir Marc at the hour appointed.
               It should be explained that Sir Marc (whom the reader already recognizes as the
                  reprobate son of old Bang) knew Alek very well; at first from his name, and
                  afterward more certainly by ascertaining from whence he came. But he supposed his
                  own disguise too perfect for detection by one whom he remembered but as a mere
                  child at the time of his own flight from Wolfsden.
               Fitz-Faun, after reading Alek's note to Sir Marc, told him that, now he had put
                  the game in his hands, he would dismiss him with the exhortation not to let the
                  pigeon again escape.
               Sir Marc returned to his room to prepare for the expected pigeon. At the appointed
                  hour Alek appeared, accompanied by Mr. Edward Clevis, and they were shown to Sir
                  Marc's room. Sir Marc was unpleasantly surprised to see two gentlemen, when he
                  expected but one; and still more, as they looked rather too self-possessed and
                  business-like for his purpose, and too little like pigeons come to be plucked.
               Sir Marc, however, welcomed them with extreme cordiality and invited them to
                  seats; which, to his further surprise, they declined.
               "We have come," said Alek, looking Sir Marc in the face, and speaking
                  deliberately, "not to accept your hospitality, but because we have business with
                  you. My name is Alexander Arbor, commonly called Alek. Wolfsden is
                  my nation, and New York is my station, and you know my occupation.*
                  
                  Your name is Mark Barker, of Wolfsden, aforesaid, and your occupation is also perfectly well known to
                  me. I have come to let you know that I am not the man you want, If I prove to be
                  the man you don't want, it will be your own fault. I shall not go out of my way to
                  trouble an old townsman, but I am prepared for emergencies. I shall not expose
                  myself unguardedly; and if unawares, any accident should befall me from an unknown
                  source, you will be held accountable, for I have already given your history and my
                  suspicions to one or two prompt friends, and to one of the police. I will only add
                  that in my opinion this city will not he henceforth be the safest sphere of your
                  operations; and with this hint I bid you a very good-night."
               
                  
                  *Alek partly quotes from a rustic rhyme, well known in Wolfsden and elsewhere
                     in New England.
               
               With these words and a ceremonious bow, the friends de departed. Sir Marc
                  attempted no reply, nor even moved his position till the echo of their footsteps
                  had ceased. He then went to the window, threw open the sash, and gazed out as if
                  consulting the aspects of the stars, or the state of the weather. Then he took a
                  glass of brandy and water, as an aid to reflection,—and reflected.
               "This is what I call a clumsy piece of business," soliloquized he, repeating the
                  words in which he expressed his opinion on the former occasion of Alek's escape.
                  "A darned clumsy piece of business!—'Not the man I want!' Pretty true
                  that. 'Thinks I had better be off, eh? Not a bad notion. I'll be
                  hanged if I don't think so myself. Things look squally. We must stand out for
                  sea-room.
               "But, then, we must look this matter on all sides. First, there's Fitz-Faun. I've
                  got his check for two hundred and fifty dollars, and want the balance. If I had
                  the knack of the pen, I'd alter the check and make it look a little more generous,
                  if only for the sake of upholding Fitz-Faun's liberality ality. The schoolmaster
                  told me I should some day regret neglecting my learning, and I feel the truth of
                  his remark when I get a bit of paper like this, that needs doctoring and I can't
                  doctor it. However, Fitz-Faun shall do it for me. I'll get up some pretence. If I
                  can't pluck a pigeon, I'll pluck a hawk.
               "And then there's my Messalina. How she'll take on when I take myself off! But I
                  must leave her, for I can't afford to take her. She's too expensive, and needs too
                  much watching. Resides, if I don't jilt her, she'll jilt me the first opportunity;
                  and I'll save her the trouble by doing it myself.
               "Then there's some other little affairs. Money and trinkets to borrow, tailor's
                  and jeweller's bills to run up, and other little speculations that I have
                  deferred, to save reputation, for bigger hauls. But, if I must be off, I'll use up
                  my credit before I go. It's an extravagance I can't afford, to leave a good name
                  behind, when I may as well dispose of it and pocket the proceeds.
               "But where shall I go?—Into the smuggling business again, or back to Carolina and
                  into the nigger speculation, as Bob Cantwell proposed? Cute dog, that Cantwell!
                  He'd steal a nigger or eat one for ten dollars, but I've a little too much
                  conscience for that. I got sick of the business when I sailed from Boston in that
                  ship. To see the poor nigger whimpering and pining all the way, and then the
                  cutting up they gave him when they got him to Charleston. It rather stuck in my
                  crop. But I think I am not so soft-hearted now, since I've heard Scripture for it.
                  'Tisn't so bad, after all, sending off a darned nigger, as if 'twere one's own
                  mother. That I wouldn't do. As for sons and brothers, they sell them off every day at the south, and I
                  s'pose I might get used to it. I hope I'm not such a reprobate as not to profit by
                  the good preaching I've been hearing."
               Fitz-Faun met Sir Marc the next day.
               "All right!" said Sir Marc. "This Alek is a jollier fellow than we took him for.
                  We took wine together, but left out the flavoring. I was not quite ready for
                  operations. I want to get his full confidence. I understood you to prefer that he
                  should ruin himself, if he would do it effectually. I prefer it also, for it
                  involves no risk; and now that I have sounded him, I know how to do it. He let me
                  into a little secret last night. He has got a mistress for the first time in his
                  life, and wants money. By the way, you must come down a little more liberally, if
                  it's only by way of loan. I want to let him accidentally see me overhauling a few
                  large bank-notes, just to convince him of my ability to put him in a way of doing
                  the like. I've a scheme,—the same that did young Clodpole;—this fellow is greener
                  than Clodpole, and, besides, he's in for it a considerable already."
               Fitz-Faun, who had full confidence in Sir Marc's ability in the line of his
                  profession, and who had his own reasons, since the flight of Erycina, for
                  crediting the report of Alek's having an expensive mistress, was deceived by Sir
                  Marc's plausibility, and gave him a new check for five hundred dollars, which the
                  knight took care to get cashed as soon as possible. And, having finished sundry
                  other little speculations, by way of turning his credit into cash, he informed his
                  landlord that he might not return till next week, and so took his departure for
                  parts unknown.
               When Fitz-Faun, after some days' delay, became aware of the knight's delinquency,
                  he was shocked at the baseness and depravity of mankind, which, in its first
                  indignation, he pronounced without parallel; but, afterward reflecting upon
                  Erycina's flight, he matched it with the falsity and treachery of
                     womankind, and like Byron, sighed that his own true heart so ill
                  deserved the fate it found.
               "Strange," said he, "that the two trusted friends whom I relied upon to serve me
                  in this matter have successively betrayed my confidence!"
               Like Napoleon, his great archetype, when informed of his favorite Moreau's
                  defection, he was more pained by the perfidy than disheartened by the loss.
               He now resolved to bring his own invincible genius to the task, and, having
                  maturely reflected upon the hidden springs of human action, he concluded that Alek
                  probably had not involved himself with Erycina, but was playing for a more
                  profitable prize. He again gave to the ambitious Yankee the credit of being a
                  shrewd, circumspect, designing fellow, who would do his best to obtain the
                  beautiful Sophia, and thus secure to himself present enjoyment and future solid
                  advantages,—a scheme which his evident good standing with the old gentleman made
                  very possible. If he himself, therefore, could by any means get possession of that
                  young lady, he would thus thwart and punish Alek (whose presumption in pitying him
                  and out-generaling him deserved punishment), and would gratify his own wishes at
                  the same time.
               To this end he devoted his talents; and, after several weeks' assiduity, Fortune,
                  the patroness of the persevering brave, gave him a golden opportunity, which, with
                  praiseworthy promptitude, he instantly seized. It happened that he met the fair
                  Sophia unattended, as she was returning from a short walk, and, joining her, he pleaded his own
                  cause so successfully, that the generous-hearted and somewhat sentimental young
                  lady agreed to come out alone the next day, and meet him at a fashionable place of
                  resort.
               Sophia, observant of the promise exacted from her, made no report of her interview
                  with Fitz-Faun, and went out to meet him the next day without giving notice of her
                  departure, fully intending to return in an hour at farthest. She met Fitz-Faun,
                  and he told her all the cherished hopes and wishes of his true heart, and vowed
                  eternal constancy. He lamented that the unfounded prejudices of her father, whom
                  he highly honored, should preclude the hope of getting his immediate consent; but,
                  if she would give him any hope, however distant, it should be the leading star of
                  his life, and prohibit him to every effort for conciliating the father's favor,
                  and ultimately gaining his consent.
               His honeyed phrases fell sweetly on the believing maiden's ear. She knew Fitz-Faun
                  to belong to the highest circles of fashion, with riches, elegance,
                  accomplishments, and every outward advantage to support his pretensions; and he
                  assured and convinced her that the reports which had prejudiced her father were
                  groundless, fabricated by his enemies, or imagined by others on no better grounds
                  than the innocent gayety which sometimes disregards grave conventionalities. He
                  acknowledged his former indiscreetness in trifles, but averred that since he had
                  become older he had learned to place a proper value upon outside appearances, as
                  well as inward virtue. "He had never gone about to vindicate his character; he
                  would not condescend do so, except to her, whose esteem was dearer to him than
                  life. As for others his friends knew him; and even his enemies would, in time,
                  forget their animosity, and do him justice."
               Nothing more effectually wins woman's sympathy than the complaints of injured
                  innocence. Sophia pitied Fitz-Faun, and pity is a long step toward love. She hoped
                  her father would learn to look upon him favorably. He might count upon her
                  friendship; more than that she hoped he would not require her to say at
                  present.
               This was, in fact, enough for the present (this opinion is expressed for the
                  benefit of others in like cases); but Fitz-Faun fancied that her eyes and cheeks
                  said even more. At any rate, he meant they should.
               Just then, by chance, the, Miss Dryades came by, Messalina with another Dryad who
                  had taken the place of Erycina. Fitz-Faun rejoiced to meet his superb cousins, and
                  introduced Sophia. The young ladies were full of good spirits and good feeling,
                  and immediately adopted Sophia as one of their dearest friends. At another time
                  she might have detected something equivocal in their appearance; but her own
                  thoughts were now preöccupied by an all-absorbing theme, and her instincts
                  directed more to the concealment of her own emotions than to the scrutiny of
                  others.
               The young ladies explained that they had come out in the coach with their mother,
                  who desired to call upon Bishop Onadonky's lady, and while the mother was making
                  her call the daughters had driven round the square, and were now about returning.
                  As Sophia was also about to turn home, they insisted upon setting her down, before
                  returning for their mother. Sophia consented, and Fitz-Faun, "wishing to improve
                  the opportunity of a longer chat with his cousins," whom he protested he had not seen for an age, also
                  entered the coach, and they drove rapidly away.
               They drove a long time. Sophia would have wondered that they drove so far, but her
                  attention was engaged with the brisk conversation of the Miss Dryades, and she
                  forgot to think of anything else. At length the coach stopped, and before a
                  stately mansion. Messalina, looking out, exclaimed,
               "Why, sister, here we are at Bishop Onadonky's;—the coachman has made a mistake.
                  Why, John," continued she, as the coachman opened the door, "why didn't you drive
                  round to Mr. Greening's?"
               The coachman pleaded that he had received no orders.
               "I declare!" said Fitz-Faun, "I must take the blame myself, or rather throw it
                  upon the ladies, who were the cause of my forgetfulness. Bat never mind, John can
                  drive us back in a few minutes, and we can have the longer chat."
               "Wait a while," said Messalina, "till I run and tell mother."
               The sprightly young lady skipped up the marble steps of the stately mansion of
                  Bishop Onadonky, and soon returned, saying that mother must have the coach a few
                  minutes to be set down in the next square, and that they would all alight and wait
                  its return. So they all alighted, and Sophia was in a moment safely
                  housed,—safely, as she supposed, in the stately mansion of Bishop Onadonky; but
                  really in the house to which Alek was formerly introduced as Count Flummery's.
               Sophia was introduced to a splendid drawing-room, and presented to the supposed
                  lady of Bishop Onadonky. All were excessively delighted with Sophia, and profuse
                  in attentions. Cake and wine were presented, and the bishop's lady insisted upon
                  her taking a little of her own favorite cordial. Sophia had been educated by her
                  medicinal mother in the duty of taking whatever remedies, preventatives, and
                  strengtheners might be prescribed; and, though she would rather not, she took the
                  cordial. It was finely flavored. In a few minutes she was as lively
                  as the best of them. Her eyes sparkle with animation. Her cheeks glowed with
                  excitement. Her gayety became excessive. She talked, and laughed, and sang, and
                  heard Messalina sing, and laughed at her song. She waltzed about the parlor with
                  her and with Fitz-Faun. She ran up stairs with the charming counterfeit daughters
                  of the Onadonky. Fitz-Faun was already there. * * * * * * Alas! deceived,
                  betrayed, lost Sophia!
               It was immediately after dinner when Sophia left her father's house. It was
                  tea-time before her absence was known to her mother, who was during the
                  intermediate time in her own private room, studying some descriptions and
                  certificates of a new medicine to purify the humors of the blood, ventilate the
                  vapors of the brain, and fortify female weaknesses. When she found, upon inquiry,
                  that none of the domestics had seen Sophia during the afternoon, she became
                  alarmed. Mr. Greening, soon coming in, soothed her with the suggestion that she
                  had probably gone out with Augustus, and would soon return. They sat down to tea,
                  expecting every moment the return of their children. Soon Augustus came. He had
                  not seen his sister since dinner, but laughed at the idea of alarm; and they took
                  their tea, but not with accustomed pleasure, for she who shed light and beauty
                  upon the repast was absent. After tea Mr. Greening proposed to walk to a neighbor's, where Sophia had
                  probably called, and wait upon her home. It is needless to say that his inquiries
                  there and elsewhere were fruitless. The evening wore on, and the anxiety of all
                  increased. Some accident had doubtless befallen their beloved child. At a late
                  hour application was made to the police, and every possible means of discovery
                  employed.
               Anxiously wore away the night. In the morning, more extensive inquiries were
                  instituted. Messengers were despatched to every place where she was known, and the
                  day was spent in searching wrong places, investigating false rumors, and pursuing
                  wrong directions. In the afternoon, it was believed that her retreat was
                  discovered; but, after the loss of several hours, this discovery was also proved
                  false.
               In the first moment of real alarm, Mr. Greening suspected Fitz-Faun, and went to
                  that gentleman's residence; but was there informed that he had been absent from
                  the city for several days, and, on pressing his inquiries, was shown a letter
                  received from him the day before, dated and postmarked several hundred miles away,
                  stating that business having detained him some days longer than he expected, he
                  should not return till the ensuing week. Mr. Greening, therefore, dismissed his
                  suspicion of Fitz-Faun.
               Mr. Greening had made known his daughter's absence, and his own apprehensions, as
                  little as possible, consistent with active inquiry; for he wished to prevent
                  injurious suspicions and ill-natured gossip, to the injury of her reputation.
                  When, however, the second morning arrived bringing no resource, he sent for Alek,
                  and told him of the dreadful bereavement, and all the circumstances of his
                  fruitless inquiries, and asked if he could suggest any plan of discovery.
               "Yes," said Alek. "We must trace her through Fitz-Faun. We must search all his
                  premises, and examine all his associates and servants."
               "But I have told you," said the father, "that Fitz-Faun has long been away from
                  the city. I saw the letter in his own hand, dated and postmarked hundreds of miles
                  away."
               "That is what confirms my suspicion," replied Alek. "Himself or his agents have
                  accomplished this villany, either by force or treachery. Will you give me
                  authority to act?"
               "Yes," said the father. "Here, take money—spare nothing. O, God! what would I give
                  to save my child?"
               Alek paused not to hear the agonized expressions of the despairing parents. His
                  resolution was taken. Count Flummery's establishment must be searched; but perhaps
                  a shorter way of discovery might first be tried. Hastening to the coachstand near
                  the City Hall, he singled out the carriage in which he had been driven with
                  Fitz-Faun and the Miss Dryades. The driver was lolling idly upon his box. Alek,
                  who wished to be out of hearing of others, sprang up and sat by his side.
               "Tell me," said he, "where you took the young lady, the day before yesterday, by
                  Mr. Fitz-Faun's order."
               "Fitz-Faun, Fitz-Faun!" said the faithful John; "I am not certain as I know him.
                  Where does he live?"
               "Come, come," said Alek, "this is no trifling matter. Tell me where the young lady
                  is, and you will save yourself trouble. I know who took her away, and now the
                  question is, where to find her. Let me know where she is at once, and it will be fifty dollars in your
                  pocket, and nothing said. Look at this" (and he exhibited a well-filled
                  pocket-book); "now look at me,—are we friends, or not?"
               "Well," said faithful John, "I'd help you fifty dollars' worth, if I could do it,
                  and nothing said. I don't pretend to know anything, but you may have my opinion,
                  if that is worth fifty dollars."
               "Then," said Alek, "let me have your opinion, and if it proves true the fifty
                  dollars is yours. I'm in Greening's employ, and, if my promise needs backing, just
                  drive me to his house in two minutes."
               "I'd rather trust you," said cautious John, "than to be seen in the affair. But
                  I'll give you my opinion, and if it comes true you may give me the fifty dollars.
                  But you must take another coach. I don't want to get mixed up in anything against
                  my customers."
               Alek agreed to the terms, and John, with a meaning wink, whispered,
               "You know Count Flummery's."—Alek assented. "Well, that's my
                  opinion."
               "It's mine, too," said Alek. And, taking the next coach, he drove immediately for
                  Edward Clevis, and, telling the young man to enter without delay, they proceeded
                  to the police station, and obtained an ample force, with which they proceeded to
                  Count Flummery's, whose residence Alek had taken care to remember.
               Alek explained the matter to Edward, while on their way to the police station; and
                  nothing could exceed the interest and zeal of the young man. He warmly expressed
                  his thanks to Alek for calling upon him to aid in the search. It was not only
                  because Alek knew the deep interest his friend would feel in the affair, but also
                  because he had observed his shrewdness and capacity in other matters, which made
                  him, as it soon proved, a very fit person to select for the occasion.
               Count Flummery was no way disconcerted or offended at the visit of the police, he
                  was "very glad," he said, "since there was suspicion, that there should be an
                  examination, by which the suspicions would be removed. Besides, his purpose in
                  residing for a short time in this country was to examine its institutions; and he
                  was pleased with this visit, as it would give him an opportunity, which might
                  otherwise have been wanting, of observing the police system, which he "doubted not
                  that he should approve, as he did other features of our institutions." He invited
                  the gentlemen to take wine; and, in short, presented in his own person a most
                  favorable specimen of foreign manners.
               The policemen, however, to whom Alek had given his opinion of the count's real
                  character, and who had perhaps some knowledge, or suspicions, concerning it,
                  performed their duty faithfully. Every room was searched, every door opened, and
                  every possible place of concealment explored. At length they all returned to the
                  parlor, convinced that, whatever might have been the fact previously, the object
                  of their search was not now concealed in the house.
               They remained in the parlor a few minutes, exchanging civilities with the count,
                  expressing regret at the intrusion which their official duty required, and their
                  satisfaction at the honorable result, which indeed his eminent position and
                  character made obvious from the first. They were the more earnest in their civil
                  expressions, because they still suspected him to be cognizant of the affair, and purposed to watch him secretly.
               They were about to depart, when Edward Clevis, who had all the time been musing
                  apart, expressed a wish again to examine the rooms of the fourth story; and
                  immediately proceeded thither, accompanied by Alek and one of the police. On
                  entering one of the rooms before searched, he remarked that he had observed it to
                  be narrower than the room below it, although it extended further toward the
                  staircase, making the entry narrower; and, therefore, it could not occupy the
                  whole width of the house on the side opposite the entrance; and he asked the
                  others how to account for the diminished size of the room, since there was
                  apparently no other beside it. The truth and importance of the suggestion was at
                  once perceived by the others, and they proceeded to examine the wall for a
                  concealed opening, but without success,—only they observed that, on striking the
                  wall, it was evidently not of masonry, like the outside wall, but of carpenter's
                  work.
               They then examined the room in the rear and adjoining. It was of the same width
                  with the last, and, like it, elegantly furnished. Against the wall which
                  contracted the width of the room was a beautiful wardrobe, movable upon castors.
                  Slipping it on one side, a door was brought to view, which, on opening it,
                  disclosed a large wardrobe closet, hung thickly on every side with various
                  garments.
               "It is evident," said Clevis, "that there must be another room cut off from the
                  front room, and the access to it may be through this closet."
               The reasonableness of this supposition was clear, and they proceeded to remove the
                  clothing and other furniture from the closet; and Edward examined the end of the
                  closet toward the front room. The closet had little light, but the policeman
                  remedied the deficiency by producing a dark-lantern. By close observation, it was
                  found that the wall was a movable one. Edward found that one of the pegs on which
                  clothing had been hung was loose, and in endeavoring to remove it he turned it
                  round, and heard a click, like the pushing back of a bolt. With a slight effort,
                  he then slid the whole wall, which moved in a groove to one side, and discovered
                  an additional wardrobe, with a door opposite. Opening the door, he saw the object
                  of his search.
               Sophia was sitting in an arm-chair, enveloped in a loose dress of rich fabric, but
                  carelessly adjusted. Her face was pale. Her eyes were inflamed, as if with
                  weeping. Her hair was disordered, and her whole appearance that of affliction and
                  fear. A young girl attended her.
               The room, though small, was splendidly furnished. A couch of the richest drapery
                  occupied one end. The walls were covered with costly mirrors and beautiful
                  paintings. Nothing which luxury could devise and adapt to the room was wanting. A
                  soft and beautiful light was diffused from the ceiling, which seemed composed of a
                  single plate of glass, tinted and traced in the most beautiful colors, and with
                  the most exquisite taste.
               Upon seeing Edward enter, Sophia started with alarm, but as he approached her,
                  saying, "Dear lady, your mother has sent for you," she sprang toward him,
                  exclaiming, "O, take me to my mother!" and, reeling, she would have fallen, but
                  Edward caught her in his arms, and placed her upon the couch, as Alek and the
                  policeman advanced to give their aid. Alek, telling them to await his return; ran
                     down stairs and reported the
                  discovery, requesting one of the police to go immediately in the coach for the
                  parents, and the others to secure and detain the count and all other inmates of
                  the house. His directions were obeyed, and scarcely an hour had elapsed since Alek
                  had first been consulted, before the daughter was enfolded in her parents'
                  embrace.
               When the parents returned home with their daughter, they found Augustus just
                  returned from a search in a different direction, whither he had been sent by false
                  information, and which had consumed several hours. He was extremely affected by
                  his sister's sorrowful appearance. He embraced her affectionately, and conjured
                  her to tell him all the truth.
               "O, my brother!" said she, "I am not guilty, but I am ruined! The wicked Fitz-Faun
                  deceived and lured me in his power, and I could not escape! They gave me drink
                  which took away my senses. If he had murdered me, it would not have been so cruel!
                  But he has left me alive to be a shame and reproach to you and our dear
                  parents."
               "Dearest sister," said Augustus, "do not speak so! You are our joy and pride. Do
                  not think we can value you the less because you have suffered wrong and violence.
                  But your wrong shall be avenged. Fitz-Faun shall pay dearly for this. My sister,
                  you shall see, and others shall see, that you have a brother to protect you, or at
                  least to punish those who dare to injure you!"
               "Dear brother!" said the agitated girl, "do not attempt it! Do not take any steps
                  that may involve our parents in deeper distress, or make this dreadful affair any
                  more widely known. O, what distress has my indiscretion brought upon you all! But
                  wait, at least, if anything must be done, till there is time for thought. Do not
                  attempt anything rashly. O, brother! promise me this favor, for our dear parents'
                  sake, as well as your own,—and mine, if you can still love me!"
               "Sister, I will do as you say. I will do nothing without due deliberation. It will
                  take time to decide how to act. Be quiet, now, upon that point, and reässure
                  yourself every way. You are my own dear sister, and our parents' love and mine
                  should console and comfort you. Compose yourself to sleep, while I watch by you,
                  for you look weary."
               Augustus assumed calmness to quiet his sister's apprehension, but a settled
                  purpose of vengeance upon her betrayer had taken possession of his heart. His
                  sister composed herself at his request, and he took a book and sat by her, that
                  his moderation might give her assurance of his purpose to obey her wishes.
               However faulty Augustus might be in other respects, he was by no means wanting in
                  the impulsive virtues of what is generally called a "high-spirited fellow." He was
                  generous in any direction where his feelings or fancy might lead, and brave to
                  repel or avenge insult. If his principles were not always strict to observe the
                  respect due to another man's or woman's honor, at least his pride was sufficiently
                  sensitive to what might wound his sister's or his own.
               His energies were of that kind which, if not the most durable, is nevertheless
                  capable of being wound up to the highest pitch of immediate action. Nothing was
                  wanting in the present case to inspire the most desperate resolution. His sister's
                  injury, his own insulted honor, the vengeance due to violated friendship and
                  hospitality, the sting of scorn which tameness would provoke, these were more than enough to fix
                  his fiercest determination.
               He continued to look over the pages of the book for some time after his mother had
                  entered the room. He then went carelessly out, as if for an ordinary purpose. Once
                  out of hearing, he hastened to his chamber, and examined the pistols which he had
                  used in the shooting gallery. They were in excellent order, and he loaded, and
                  capped them in the most careful manner. He then cloaked and capped himself with
                  equal care, and in a few moments gained the street without exciting
                  observation.
               He repaired hastily to a public house which commanded a view of Fitz-Faun's
                  residence. His faculties were sharpened by the emergency, and he sagaciously
                  reflected that the surest way to effect his purpose was to await Fitz-Faun's
                  appearance in the street, as he was probably guarded against attack in his own
                  house. His vengeance was impatient, but he resolved not to frustrate it by want of
                  due caution. He therefore waited in the window where he was seated till Fitz-Faun
                  should appear, or till he could devise a sure means of access to him. As destiny
                  would have it, he did not wait long. Fitz-Faun had been informed of the discovery
                  of Sophia, and resolved to leave the city till the affair should be blown over. He
                  probably thought that, as Napoleon had sometimes retreated when he could do no
                  better, it would be no impeachment to his own generalship to retreat upon like
                  occasion. He therefore had already made preparations for departure and ordered his
                  carriage. It was soon at the door. He entered it just as Augustus, who had
                  advanced as rapidly as possible without exciting observation, had reached it; but
                  the coachman at that instant snapped his whip, and the horses started rapidly
                  away. Augustus, nerved to desperation, followed with equal rapidity, resolved that
                  his prey should not escape him. The direction of the carriage made it necessary to
                  cross Broadway, which was then thronged with carriages, so that Fitz-Fauns
                  carriage was for a moment stopped. That moment sufficed for Augustus to gain the
                  carriage window. He saw Fitz-Faun reclining in the back part of the carriage, his
                  face mostly concealed by a travelling-cap. Augustus, throwing off his cloak, broke
                  in the window with the butt of his pistol. Fitz-Faun looked up. Their eyes met,
                  and in that moment he received the contents of the pistol in his throat.
               The ball cut its way through his cravat, his windpipe, tore the carotid artery,
                  and, passing through the neck, lodged in the cushioned side of the carriage.
               Fitz-Faun, in the agonies of death, dashed through the opposite window, and fell
                  heavily upon the muddy pavement. He sprang, in his death struggle, again upon his
                  feet. The blood foamed from his mouth and nostrils, and his eyes protruded with
                  suffocation. He faltered a few steps, and fell headlong. The horrified spectators
                  attempted to raise him. His struggles became less violent, and shortly ceased.
                  They placed him in his own carriage, which returned immediately to his house.
               When Augustus discharged his pistol, his excitement had risen to the pitch of
                  frenzy. His cloak and cap had fallen in the street, and he sprang around the
                  carriage to the side whence Fitz-Faun emerged, with his remaining pistol prepared
                  for action. Facing Fitz-Faun as he rose, he would have again fired, but the bloody
                  and ghastly spectacle deterred him. But he shouted, in the madness of ungovernable
                  rage,
               
               "Die, wretch!—die, dog! Do you know me? I'm your old friend, Augustus Greening.
                  Yes, gentlemen," said he, looking round on the gathering crowd, "I'm the man that
                  killed that dog! He was the Napoleon, but I'm the Wellington. Yes, sir (to a
                  policeman who advanced to him), I'm your man!"
               Alek had remained at the count's till Sophia departed with her parents; then,
                  leaving the count and his household in charge of the officers, he hastened to the
                  court of police, and entered a complaint against the count, and also stated his
                  belief concerning the bracelet in possession of the countess. An examination of
                  those eminent persons was ordered; and it appearing, among more important matters,
                  that the object of the count's brief residence in this country was chiefly to
                  examine into American institutions, the judge very graciously awarded to him an
                  apartment peculiarly favorable to his studies, in an edifice of Egyptian
                  architecture, sometimes styled "The Tombs."
               An examination of his effects proved that the count had a decided talent for
                  choice collections; and a list of articles being taken and exhibited for the
                  benefit of the curious in such matters, a number of gentlemen, tradesmen and
                  others, formerly patronized by the count, appeared and identified many choice
                  articles, to which they laid claim, forgetful of the delicate feelings of their
                  noble friend, who had privately appropriated these trifles as keepsakes and
                  memorials of friendship, as was afterward proved by his own declaration in his
                  defence. The countess objected to the indignity of being searched, as the
                  operation seemed to imply suspicions derogatory to her honor and rank; but, being
                  told that the ceremony was indispensable, she finally submitted; and the bracelet,
                  the gift of a queen, with many other costly trinkets, doubtless presented by
                  duchesses, peeresses, marchionesses, and other high pomposities, were all
                  carefully collected, catalogued, and safely kept, as was her ladyship, for further
                  consideration.
               Alek had scarcely returned to his place of business, when a farmer-looking man,
                  attended by a young man who was his son, came hastily in, and inquired for Mr.
                  Greening. Alek recognized him as Mr. George Washington Bowpin, of Furrowdale, the
                  same person who had formerly inquired of him concerning Fitz-Faun, whose name Mr.
                  Bowpin supposed to be Smith. Mr. Bowpin had witnessed the death of Fitz-Faun, and,
                  hearing the homicide declare himself as Augustus Greening, he had come to announce
                  the fact to the father. Alek heard his story, and, requesting him to await his
                  return, ran to his employer's house, and, calling him in privately, communicated
                  the intelligence in the terms the least likely to agitate a father in such a case.
                  They at once proceeded to Augustus' place of confinement; Alek, in the mean time,
                  suggesting to the father the justice and expediency of withholding all censure,
                  and vindicating his son's act as the necessary result of virtuous and honorable
                  impulses.
               "For," said Alek, "the law is now his accuser, and both nature and justice require
                  of you to be his advocate until, acquitted by the law, and then you may properly
                  judge him as a parent. Mr. Greening took the same view, and in his interviews and
                  consultations with his son, then and afterward, gave no hint of disapprobation,
                  but supported him with unqualified tenderness and encouragement.
               To avoid the necessity of recurring to this affair again, it may as well be here
                  stated that the trial took place shortly afterwards, and Augustus was honorably acquitted, on the ground of temporary
                  insanity. His frantic gestures and exclamations at the time of the murder, as
                  sworn to by Mr. George Washington Bowpin and his son, and other spectators, gave a
                  sufficient pretence for acquittal in this case, though it would hardly have
                  availed in case of a murder committed with less provocation. The verdict was
                  received with a burst of applause by the spectators which the court reproved with
                  unusual mildness.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               WHEN Alek returned to the office, after communicating the manner of Fitz-Faun's
                  death to Mr. Greening, and accompanying him to his son's place of imprisonment, he
                  inquired of Mr. Bowpin more particularly about the circumstances of the tragedy;
                  and also the meaning of his expressions of surprise on a former occasion, when
                  told the real name of Fitz-Faun. Mr. Bowpin replied that, some few months ago,
                  that person had brought to his house in Furrowdale a lady whom he introduced as
                  his wife, and with whom he took a room, which they occupied several weeks. The
                  gentleman gave his name as Smith. He was absent most of the day, sometimes leaving
                  the lady, but often he took her with him. The lady was very beautiful, and seemed
                  much attached to him, but appeared not perfectly happy, especially when he was
                  absent. He was liberal in his expenses, but by no means communicative, and
                  appeared to avoid observation.
               Mr. Bowpin was certain that Fitz-Faun was the person; and the son, who recognized
                  him as he sprang from the carriage after receiving the fatal wound, was equally
                  certain of his identity. Their description of the lady answered to the appearance
                  of Erycina; and Mr. Bowpin expressed the opinion that she was innocent of any
                  intentional deception. Both the Bowpins
                  said that they should know the lady again under any circumstances.
               Alek took a note of these statements, and told the Bowpins that there might be
                  occasion to verify the facts by their testimony, for the purpose of maintaining
                  the lady's right of dower as Fitz-Faun's widow, and they agreed to be ready when
                  called for.
               It had occurred to Alek, that if Miss Meekly's statements could be proved, namely,
                  that Fitz-Faun had lived with her, or represented her as his wife, she might
                  perhaps have a legal claim to be so considered; and, since he had deceived her by
                  means of a marriage ceremony, nothing could be more just than that the marriage
                  should thus be legalized.
               The opportune discovery of the Bowpins seemed to supply an important part of the
                  needed evidence; and he immediately consulted counsellor Grappler, who, like
                  faithful John the coachman, was ready to dispose of his opinion, which Alek found
                  sufficiently favorable to encourage him to proceed as is generally the case when
                  litigants ask legal advice. Alek had lately received a letter from his Aunt
                  Hobart, which gave so favorable a view of Miss Meekly's character and disposition,
                  that he was the more earnest to obtain for her the just redress which her case
                  claimed. The letter was as follows: 
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR NEPHEW: Miss Meekly requests you to send the enclosed
                                 twenty dollars to her aunt, Mrs. Sarah Meadows, whose place of
                                 residence she says you are informed of. She speaks of her aunt as
                                 being in circumstances which may make the money needful to her; but
                                 wishes her not to know where it comes from, for reasons which she
                                 thinks you will understand.
                              "The young woman is much approved here, being discreet and
                                 well-favored. It is very good of her to bestow her earnings to help
                                 her aunt; and it is hopeful that she will not lose her reward.
                              "I am glad to hear good accounts of you, and hope that you will
                                 always remember to wait upon the Lord, and not let your heart be
                                 puffed up by prosperity; for the Lord hateth the proud, but giveth
                                 grace unto the humble.
                              "Your cousin Hezekiah sends his kind regards. He is to visit
                                 Wolfsden next Thanksgiving; and I trust that we shall have Helen
                                 with us the coming winter.
                              
                                 "Your affectionate aunt,
                                 "ABIGAIL HOBART."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Having received counsellor Grappler's advice, Alek wrote to Miss Meekly, informing
                  her of Fitz-Faun's death, and stating in detail the discovery and the importance
                  of her legal rights as his wife and widow, to vindicate which required her
                  immediate return to New York. He enclosed the letter in one to his aunt, in which
                  he stated more briefly that a Miss Meekly's rights in the property of a person
                  lately deceased required her presence. He also wrote to Mrs. Simperkins, detailing
                  the developments concerning Count Flummery, and his probable identity with her
                  former friend, Count Flipperton, especially as a bracelet displayed by the
                  countess answered her description of the one formerly belonging to herself. He
                  advised her, that she might probably recover it by early application.
               In due season the winning old lady came, and made such excellent impression upon
                  the chief of police, by her appearance and her story (which Alek confirmed as
                  being her old story) and also by other
                  proofs (the strongest of which was her instantly identifying the count among a
                  crowd of prisoners), that the bracelet was restored to her; perhaps partly through
                  virtue of an ancient precedent; established by a famous judge, "Lest by her
                  continual coming she weary me."
               Mrs. Simperkins, having regained her long-lost bracelet and having duly considered
                  the fleeting nature of such ornaments, and having, perhaps, some vague impression
                  that the period of youthful vanities was passing away, and that the solid charms
                  of a well-lined purse might better become her maturer years, took the advice of
                  Alek, and, applying to a jeweller in Broadway, whom she convinced that the
                  ornament, or at least herself, was "ha hunique" she received the cash value of her
                  treasure, which paid her expenses and carried her home with a heavier purse than
                  she had ever before possessed; and also with a heart from which all traces of
                  resentment toward Alek, for her long-remembered shipwreck in the snow-drift, were
                  forever obliterated.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               MISS MEEKLY, upon her arrival in New York, being advised by Mr. Grappler (whose
                  activity in behalf of his fair client, aided by the zeal of Alek and the
                  recollections of the Bowpins, had already accumulated an amount of evidence
                  sufficient for present purposes), took the name of Fitz-Faun, and immediately
                  proceeded to his late residence, accompanied by that eminent counsellor. At the
                  house they found the elder Fitz-Faun, father of the deceased, under whose orders
                  some of the furniture was being removed. Mr. Grappler, in behalf of his client,
                  commanded a stay of proceedings, and introduced the lady to Mr. Fitz-Faun, senior,
                  as the widow of his son, who had come to claim her dower and take possession of
                  the house and personal effects of the deceased, by virtue of her legal right. The
                  old gentleman was astonished at the announcement; but the highly respectable
                  character of Mr. Grappler, who briefly told the fact of the private marriage of
                  his son, and that it could be substantiated by the acknowledgment of the deceased,
                  and other sufficient proof, prevented resistance, and the old man left the house
                  in possession of the new claimant and her adviser, and proceeded to the office of
                  his legal counsellor, the equally eminent Mr. Grinder; between whom and Mr.
                  Grappler the business was settled to the advantage of all parties, Grappler and Grinder included. A
                  compromise was effected, by which Mrs. Fitz-Faun yielded all interest in the
                  estate of the deceased, and received ten thousand dollars, and a proper
                  acknowledgment of the legality of her marriage.
               Alek had in the first place stated her case to Mr. Greening (omitting the
                  circumstances of his first acquaintance with her), and it was by his advice that
                  Mr. Grappler was retained in her behalf. When her claims were adjusted, Mr.
                  Greening desired to see her; and, on being introduced, after some conversation, he
                  inquired the place of her early residence.
               "Cedar Grove," she replied.
               "Cedar Grove!— why, my daughter spent several weeks there two years ago."
               "Your daughter?—is her name Sophia Greening?"
               "The same."
               "Why, she is my dearest friend. Can I see her?"
               Mr. Greening explained his daughter's misfortune, and added, "If you can still
                  condescend to claim her as your friend, I will take you to her at once."
               "Condescend!" exclaimed she. "Why do you speak so?—as though she were degraded by
                  the villany and violence of another. To admit such an idea is to degrade me also!
                  Let me see her as soon as possible. She is an angel of purity and goodness."
               The gratified father led the fair Fitz-Faun to his daughter. As soon as they met,
                  Sophia sprung to her arms, exclaiming, "My dear Emily Meekly!"
               Fondly sweet was their sisterly embrace. Emily remained and comforted Sophia. They
                  confided to each other all their history. Together they visited the imprisoned
                  brother, whose acquittal, or pardon, Mr. Grappler assured them might be relied on.
                  Together they attended the trial, where Sophia was compelled, as a witness, to
                  tell her story; which she did with such simplicity and clearness, as aided not a
                  little her brother's cause, and together they rejoiced at his acquittal.
               The heart of Augustus was touched with the sympathy and the charms of Emily; and
                  after his release he proved his unabated love to his sister, by falling in love
                  with her friend.
               That this episode may not hang upon our hands, we will add, that Augustus became
                  sobered down to a rational being by the late tragic events. He concluded to
                  exchange his chivalrous notions and high-life pretensions for a common-sense
                  character, as more useful and respectable; and he resolved upon matrimony, as the
                  first decided step in his new career. Parents approved. Sophia solicited. Emily
                  hesitated, and insisted upon a year's probation; but finally compromised for six
                  months, a part of which time she spent with her aunt, Mrs. Sarah Meadows, at Cedar
                  Grove, to whom, with the approval of Augustus and his father, she secured an
                  independent support during life, by the purchase of an annuity. In due time Mrs.
                  Fitz-Faun became Mrs. Augusta Greening (adopting the feminine of her husband's
                  name). It is now some years since, and they all profess never to have regretted
                  the transaction.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               A DAY or two after the acquittal of young Greening, the father called Alek into
                  his private counting-room, and thus addressed him:
               "My young friend, your faithfulness and ability have been of the utmost service to
                  me and my family,—more than I can express. It is to your efficient aid that I owe
                  my daughter's restoration. It is impossible that I should fully repay you; and it
                  is not in your disposition to expect it; indeed, no person of right disposition
                  desires to be fully repaid for the benefits which his abilities may enable him to
                  confer upon others. We are bound to help each other according to our several needs
                  and opportunities, and God has appointed a sufficient recompense for every good
                  deed. I wish, however, to show you that I appreciate your services, and am
                  grateful for them. I have made an entry on my journal which doubles your salary
                  for the present year, and it shall be proportionately increased beyond our first
                  agreement for the time that you shall remain in my employ. I intend in a
                  reasonable time to make you an advantageous offer of a partnership in the
                  business, which, whether you accept it or not, will show my perfect confidence in
                  your ability and zeal. In the mean time, consider me a friend and adviser, more
                  than an employer; and when you have need of my influence or its resources, they
                  are yours. I need not say that your company is always particularly welcome at my
                  house, since I am commissioned by the unanimous request of my family to invite you
                  to take residence with us, if agreeable to yourself, as soon as convenient."
               "Your kindness to me," replied Alek, "is more than anything I have done deserves,
                  but I will make every effort to deserve it, as I have opportunity. You are,
                  however, under a misapprehension as to the person chiefly instrumental in rescuing
                  your daughter, and I should be guilty in receiving the praise belonging to
                  another. It was Edward Clevis who liberated her, by insisting on a second search,
                  when we were on the point of leaving the house, supposing that we had examined
                  every possible place of concealment."
               Alek then gave an account of all the particulars of the search, and placed his
                  friend's promptitude and sagacity in the fairest light, and added, "I think it
                  proper, since you have admitted me as a friend, who may allude to your domestic
                  affairs, to give you information that may enable you to act understandingly in
                  whatever marks of favor you may be disposed to show him. Mr. Clevis has long been
                  deeply impressed with the merits of your daughter, and probably might have the
                  presumption to make his partiality manifest, if admitted to a position giving him
                  encouragement. He never has spoken to me of his attachment, nor probably to any
                  one else; but I am positive in my opinion, and I have so good an impression of his
                  personal merits, that I wish his situation in life were equal to his good taste
                  and ambition."
               "You mean that you would like to speak a good word for him," said Mr. Greening, goodnaturedly. "Your
                  honorable conduct, in explaining his share in the important service rendered me,
                  is worthy of you. It does not lessen my obligation to you, though it admits him to
                  an equal claim. The young man has always stood well in my opinion, though I have
                  not had occasion to employ him in any service requiring more than ordinary
                  ability. Your opinion of his merits weighs much with me, and I shall give him
                  opportunity to prove them. By 'his situation in life,' I suppose you refer to his
                  not possessing property; but if he possesses talent, it is an equivalent. Both you
                  and he are richer than myself, taking the difference of years into account,
                  provided you have proper business ability; for the thirty years which you have in
                  prospect before attaining my present age will, if employed in making money, as I
                  have, perhaps too assiduously, employed my years, will make either of you richer
                  than I am, for you have a much better beginning than I had at your age; as I had
                  neither instruction in business, nor available friends, and you have both. You may
                  bring your friend to my house, and I doubt not that his discretion will be equal
                  to his other good qualities."
               Alek rightly understood this last remark as an intimation to check any undue
                  forwardness in his friend, but not to forbid his hopes, and he therefore modified
                  the invitation to Edward accordingly. Edward visited his patron's house with his
                  friend, and made himself agreeable by his unassuming manner, and soon became on
                  familiar terms with the family. It has already been told how Sophia perceived his
                  partiality on the occasion of their first interview at Mr. Boynton's soiree, and
                  was not unfavorably impressed by it. Her deep humiliation and sorrow since that
                  time had disposed her still more favorably to appreciate the regard of a sincere
                  and honorable heart; and it may be inferred that Edward, who had much love, had
                  also some ground of hope.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               O, FAIR flowers of life's dewy morning! O, breezes redolent of youth's balmy
                  breath! O, gleams of early brightness still gilding the failing horizon! O,
                  memories still fresh and fragrant, choice treasures of the secret heart, no longer
                  open to gather joys from without! Let your influence exhale from the recording
                  pen, and crystallize upon the descriptive page. So, though the dust of present
                  neglect should settle here, yet some future explorer of ancient lore shall find
                  the long-forgotten tome, and, scanning its pages, say, "These are the traces of a
                  faithful pen."
               Harry and Margaret sit together upon the shelvy rock in the mellow autumn evening,
                  and watch where the rays of the yet unrisen moon silver the tops of northern
                  mountains. His arm encircles her graceful form. Her clasped hands rest upon his
                  shoulder. His fond eyes are fixed upon her radiant face. The evening breeze fans
                  her waving ringlets till they touch his inclining cheek. They speak to each other
                  in sweet tones, the ever new language of a thousand years,—of unknown ages, of
                  unnumbered worlds,—the speech of the soul, the language of love. The silence of
                  nature's solitude suits their listening ears. Her soft murmur, blended from a
                  thousand distant sounds, borne upon the breeze, disturbs not their thoughts. There
                  is a universal harmony of peace and love.
               She tells him of the thoughts of her young days; of her aspirations for the
                  beautiful, the spiritual, the elevated, the refined. How, though inward purity and
                  goodness commanded her esteem and reverence, yet, wanting in outward grace and
                  elegance, they could not touch her heart. How, though she dared not hope to
                  possess, she had sighed at least to see the perfection which her fancy pictured; a
                  diamond sparkling with wrought and polished lustre, a soul of inward worth and
                  outward adornment.
               "God is good to me," she said. "He has given me my soul's desire. I feel your
                  purity and truth; they are the deep foundations of my reverence and esteem. I am
                  charmed with the outward grace which sets forth the inward worth. This is the
                  superstructure within which my heart of love delights to dwell."
               Thus the love of pure minds exalts its object, shedding thereon the light of its
                  own brightness. It also elevates and refines that upon which its light is thrown.
                  The generous soul, which finds itself prized above its deserts, will strive for
                  the excellence which shall make it worthy of all the praise it receives.
               Thus Harry Boynton resolved to strive and attain the exalted sphere of purity and
                  goodness, where the love of Margaret placed him. His conscious faults he would
                  amend; his hidden evil he would detect and subdue; he would strengthen his
                  reverence for goodness, purity, and all that elevates the soul. He would be worthy
                  of Margaret's priceless love.
               He told her of the larger experience of his life; how he had dwelt among the high-wrought scenes of
                  artificial society; how his fancy was fascinated by the grace and elegance with
                  which polished culture gilds outward forms, though moulded of mean material; how
                  pretty lips are taught to counterfeit the language of the soul, or speak the
                  senseless babble of fashion in such enchanting tones as charm away the soul's
                  discrimination; how he scanned their affectation, and thought he scanned the
                  female heart; how he discarded serious thought, and laughed, and sported, and sung
                  the songs and danced in the idle rounds of frivolity, and said that all life was
                  but an empty show, for illusion given,—being as yet unaware of its deep meaning
                  and high destiny. How, as a dreamer long entranced in gay delusions, half
                  conscious of their unreality, is wakened by the rising sun to worthy duties and
                  delights, so the light from a true soul had beamed through her dear eyes into his
                  welcoming heart, and wakened it to a glorious life.
               Thus does love exaggerate its history, and exalt its votary and its object above
                  the mortal sphere, perhaps above mortal comprehension.
               The risen moon ascended in serene majesty among the twinkling stars. Nature
                  listened in silence to their sweet accents of love, or responded in softened
                  echoes of distant sounds. With encircling arms or clashing hands they slowly wind
                  along the rustic pathway,—by gray lichened rocks; by hillocks of green tufted
                  moss; by young birchen trees that greeted them with the gentle murmur of waving
                  leaves; by scattered ferns that offered the incense of their sweet fragrance,
                  though the broken wall which bounds the orchard, beneath the apple-trees whose
                  yellow or ruddy fruit bestrewed the soft turf; by the well, where the old oaken
                  bucket swung idly from the sweep; through the deserted porch where milk pails and
                  pans were piled for morning use; through the spacious kitchen, swept and silent,
                  save the cricket chirruping in the hearth; whence, lingeringly separating, they
                  sought their several rooms, and adored the Power who formed the soul for love.
               Much was little Amy vexed when Fanny told her, as a great secret, that Margaret
                  was to marry Harry. She said that "It was a shame for Margaret to do so, when
                  everybody said that she was to be Alek's wife, and she had got the promise to go
                  and live with them when they should be married; and now there is nobody left good
                  enough to be Alek's wife only you, and you can't be his wife because you are his
                  sister; and, besides, you are only a little girl, and I am only a little girl;
                  and, besides, I am to be his daughter, and so I can't be his wife,—and I wish
                  Harry had got somebody else. He might have had Sister Ann, only Josiah Brown wants
                  her; but he might have had Sister Hannah, only mother can't spare her and Ann and
                  me too. But now Uncle Alek will never be married when he comes back, and I never
                  can live with him." Thus little Amy mourned, but Fanny soothed her, saying,
               "Alek will have a nice wife, one of these days; for mother says there is a sweet
                  girl growing up for him, and what mother says always comes true. So I think you
                  will have a chance to live with him, and we shall have nice times, after all."
               Then Amy wondered who the sweet girl could be, and if she should love her as well
                  as Margaret; and she resolved to ask Aunt Deborah about it. But Aunt Deborah told
                  her it was a great secret yet; and Amy
                  puzzled herself to think who it could be.
               All over town they talked of Harry and Margaret's engagement,—they always do so in
                  Wolfsden. The girls who judged themselves handsome thought, if Harry looked for
                  beauty, he was not the best judge in the world. Those who prided themselves upon
                  their skill in housewifery reckoned Harry would be disappointed when he found what
                  sort of a housekeeper she would be. Those who counted themselves among the
                  aristocracy of Wolfsden thought Margaret a proud minx,—"just as if nobody in
                  Wolfsden was good enough for her." Those who were become sensible of the fall
                  maturity of their own virginhood thought Margaret a forward miss, to be engaged
                  before she was out of her teens. And so they all envied her, and congratulated
                  her, and told her they were glad to hear it.
               The young men "thought it a good joke that Alek should be jilted, when he counted
                  his game so sure. Wouldn't he swear when he heard of it? True, his mother had
                  taught him not to swear, but they should like to be there and see. But it was not
                  a handsome thing in Harry to cut out his old friend and crony. That's the way of
                  those city chaps; give 'em a spoon, and you may as well give up the whole
                  platter,—they'll take it, anyhow. Harry's got his eye-teeth cut. He thinks the
                  major may die and leave 'em, the farm. May get cheated, after all,—some old folks
                  never die. However, Harry's a generous fellow, and we'll hope for the best;—he
                  must stand a treat, anyhow."
               And so they envied Harry, and censured him, and prophesied ill luck, but greeted
                  him with double complaisance; "For," said they, "we now look upon you as a
                  Wolfsdenner."
               The mothers of fair daughters "wondered what Mr. Boynton saw in Margaret so much
                  better than anybody else, and hoped it might all come out well in the end; but
                  they had known things which did not come out so well in the end, after all," and
                  they shook their heads negatively. But they told their daughters that they might
                  invite the young couple to tea, some afternoon; they wanted to be neighborly.
               The brethren of the church thought Major Murray would do well to look to the ways
                  of his household. They should feel it a duty not to let a daughter of theirs marry
                  an unconverted person, especially one brought up among the Episcopalians, who read
                  their prayers and sing the Scriptures and all that heathenish sort of thing. But
                  it would be of no use to interfere. The major was a set man in his way. And so
                  when they met the major they shook hands with double vigor, to atone for
                  uncharitable thoughts.
               Thus the people of Wolfsden endured what could not be cured. Harry and Margaret
                  were allowed to have it all their own way, and their own way was to be married
                  next Thanksgiving; and in the mean time Harry would go to his home in Carolina,
                  and make preparation.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               HARRY'S father, Mr. Pelham Boynton, was declining in health, and glad to have his
                  son return; and glad when he asked permission to bring a Yankee girl to share his
                  paternal benediction. Since his strength and ability to look after his own affairs
                  was abated, his estate had become ill-managed, and unprofitable, and his neighbors
                  predatory, thievish, and insolent, as they generally are toward those who lack
                  strength or spirit to make themselves feared; so that his life was an
                  uncomfortable monotony of petty miseries.
               His only daughter Angelina was his chief society. She was some years older than
                  Harry, and in merits and attractions quite above the average of Carolina
                  home-raised ladies. For her superiority she was partly indebted to nature, having
                  been born a good-looking and promising baby; partly it was in her blood, for she
                  was a Boynton; something she had gained by reading for her father had a small
                  library,—a rare possession on a plantation; somewhat her father's society had done
                  for her, for he was originally a man of good mind, though rusted by long residence
                  in Carolina. Her brother's suggestions and example had helped her much, so that,
                  though raised in Carolina, she had through these extra aids attained to more than
                  Carolina cultivation.
               The mother's lingering and fatal sickness had prevented her being sent away for
                  education while young; and when her mother died, she was too tall and plain for
                  promising experiments, and her father too lonely to spare her. So he gave double
                  advantages to the brilliant son, and kept the plain daughter to soothe his
                  solitude.
               But neither the brilliant son nor the plain daughter demurred at their parent's
                  economy. They were both of amiable and yielding dispositions, and loved each other
                  spite of all disparity of years and habits. Harry saw few faults in his sister,
                  and these were more than atoned for by her affection; and Angelina thought her
                  brother faultless.
               Their plantation home was in Beaufort County, North Carolina. Judging from its
                  name, we might suppose it a very pretty place. A brief description will enable
                  readers to appreciate, the appropriateness of its pretty name.
               Beaufort County lies around the head of Pamlico Sound, and is traversed by Pamlico
                  river. Pamlico Sound is an extensive sheet of half-stagnant water. It is a thin
                  sheet, and a very dirty one. Navigators, laboriously paddling their cypress canoes
                  two or three miles distant from the shore, drag their keel through the sludge, and
                  leave a muddy wake behind. Huge snakes and lizard-like reptiles abound in the
                  rank, unsightly vegetation which surrounds and covers the flat islands that in
                  many places elevate, themselves a few inches above the water's surface, to an
                  extent sometimes of several acres, though generally of but a few rods. Slimy
                  crabs, and testaceous reptiles, and sluggish, unwholesome fish, swim or crawl
                  where the water is deep enough. Black cypress swamps mostly bound the view, except
                  toward the sea, which cannot be seen,
                  for long reaches of dry sand-banks intervene, This is Pamlico Sound.
               The dry sand-banks, and the cypress swamps, and creeks, called "branches,"
                  bordered with extensive marsh, covered with tall, coarse, useless grass, and the
                  pine barrens beyond, make up the territory about Pamlico Sound; and this is the
                  lower part of the county called Beaufort.
               Pamlico river runs, or rather creeps, into the upper end of Pamlico Sound. It
                  intersects the upper part of Beaufort County, which answers nearly to the
                  description of the lower part; only the water of the river is somewhat less
                  stagnant than that of the sound, and the land is more embellished with pine
                  barrens, and less adorned with cypress swamps, "branches," and marshes. Sometimes
                  a ridge of oak-land is seen, or a mixed and tangled wood of hard pine, loblolly,
                  gum-tree &c., thick with rank mildewy vines and parasitic plants. But the
                  prevailing feature is a sandy plain, sometimes warted with sandy hillocks, and
                  furrowed by deep gulleys, but mostly of an irregular monotonous level, covered
                  with shrubs and coarse grass, and scattered pitch-pines, dwarfish, scarred,
                  backed, denuded of their bark for many feet from. the ground, and covered with
                  dripping turpentine "scrape." This beautiful region is the upper and remaining
                  part of the County of Beaufort.
               At the upper end of Beaufort County, at the head of the shallow navigation of
                  Pamlico river, is a town, equal in extent (but not in neatness, convenience,
                  taste, or wealth) to an average New England village; and it is dignified with the
                  title of "city,"—WASHINGTON CITY. The population numbers a little more than two
                  thousand, of all shades of color, from dingy white to decided black; and equal
                  variety of moral and intellectual complexion, beginning not too high in the scale,
                  and ranging downward indefinitely. Such is the circle of society in the North
                  Carolina Washington City.
               In little shops are displayed coarse miscellaneous goods,—sometimes a horse-load,
                  and sometimes a pedler's pack full; and the sallow, cadaverous possessor lies at
                  length upon the counter, saturated with whiskey, shaking with fever and ague, and
                  smoking a pipe or cigar. And this is a North Carolina city merchant.
               Ranged along the foot pathway (which serves also as gutter) are little stalls, or
                  booths, where superannuated slaves, worn out with labor and the lash, tempt
                  passengers with ginger-pop, sweet cakes, and like luxuries, whereby they earn a
                  few dimes weekly, to pay their magnanimous masters for the rent of their own
                  out-worn bodies.
               Sometimes sweet, molasses-looking damsels, dressed in cheap finery, parade in
                  frequented places, and with winning smiles and siren songs entice the sentimental
                  swain to the soft delights of southern life; and these blissful belles also pay so
                  much per week to their noble-minded masters and delicate mistresses for the rent
                  of their own bodies—and souls.
               Sometimes a sentimental journeyer (not a STERNE, for he hated slavery), seeing
                  those petty traders and these contented-looking courtesans, with their flaunting
                  dresses and enticing looks, and, though perhaps a divine, not divining the meaning
                  of all he sees, even though enforced "rhetorical liftings of the leg,"*
                   is "deeply affected with patriotic feeling;" and ere he lays him down to
                  sleep, and prays the Lord his soul to
                  keep, he writes another chapter in his book, which he fondly hopes "may quiet
                  northern sentiment."
               
                  
                  *See Rev. Dr. Nehemiah Adams' "South Side View of
                     Slavery."
               
               Paltry scenes tire the beholder, and we will not further describe the city but by
                  comparison. It is better than Timbuctoo or Booriboola-gha. It is worse than Paris,
                  or Pekin, or St. Petersburg. The travelled reader may, from these data, classify
                  the City of Washington in North Carolina.
               The reader will be glad to escape from this same city. He may do so (if white).
                  There are various directions of egress. He may take a canoe and paddle down the
                  Pamlico; or he may take a plank and pole up the Tar river; or he may take stage
                  and go north or south. Let us take stage and go north, by all means.
               Wearily borne along in a vehicle that creaks, and flaps, and jerks violently,
                  though it scarcely moves ahead; that jolts, and pitches, though there are no
                  obstructing stones or solid soil; buried beneath its felloes in yielding sand;
                  buried all over in a cloud of dust just large enough to envelop and suffocate us;
                  dragged slowly along, with writhing, wriggling progress, by skeletons of hungry
                  horses, driven by a dirty, drunken, pipe-smoking coachman,—still it is something
                  to be going, or at least heading, north. The slow tortoise won the race at last,
                  and the history of his travels may console us. At any rate, we are now at the
                  bottom of fortune's wheel, and, though it turn but as slowly as the creaking four
                  which bear us, it may bring us upward at last.
               Looking from either crisped, torn leather window, the same sandy, scathed,
                  pitch-pine, scrub-oak monotony prevails. We have travelled half a day at a rate
                  somewhere between that of a snail and a streak of lightning, and find ourselves
                  almost in sight of something. By and by we see it. It is a plantation tion. It is
                  an oasis in a sandy waste,—not exactly an Eden, but pretty fair by contrast.
               There is a two-story whited house, surrounded by a piazza, and shaded by various
                  shrubbery. Apple-trees, and fig-trees, and peach trees, that should bear and will
                  not bear, and persimmon-trees, that should not bear and will bear, and some
                  climbing scentless roses, and briers that are not sweet, comprise a scanty
                  paradise. The negro "quarters," some twenty rods distant, complete the view of the
                  two extremes of southern life,—scarcely tolerable luxury here, scarcely endurable
                  wretchedness there.
               At the entrance of the carriage-way to the lordly mansion stand two painted
                  gate-posts with a high cross-beam. The gate is broken; but we will pause by the
                  gate-posts, for on them our present history hinges.
               Some forty years ago a traveller from the north came in view of this gate, then
                  newly erected. He drove his own high-spirited horse, and, rode in his own elegant
                  sulky, and he was a high-spirited and elegant young man. He drove leisurely, for
                  his object was pleasure and observation. His horse saw the gate too, and pricked
                  up his ears. It was worth his while. A dozen children, of various complexions,
                  were playing about the gate, climbing the posts, and venturing with fearful steps
                  across upon the overarching beam.
               Among them was one so far superior to the rest as to seem like a being of another
                  sphere. She was a vision of all-surpassing loveliness. Her head was adorned with a
                  slight wreath of flowers, which the children in their gay mood had woven. Her rich
                  golden hair fell in profuse and golden curls upon her neck and shoulders, of
                  faultless form and grace. Her deep blue eyes were fraught with beauty, gentleness, and intelligence. Her
                  transparent, pure-veined complexion, heightened by sportive exercise, excelled the
                  artist's highest skill. Her form was a model of symmetry and active elegance. Her
                  movements were spirited, yet graceful; youthful, yet dignified. She was twelve or
                  thirteen years old; just budding from lovely childhood into lovelier maidenhood.
                  Her companions were as the dusky attendants of some peerless Circassian queen.
               The traveller—we may as well tell his name—was Mr. Pelham Boynton, then of New
                  York,—all unconscious of the years and cares which have since whitened his head,
                  and furrowed his check, and weighed down his heart. He was fresh and buoyant with
                  youth, and health, and hope. He had taste to appreciate and a heart to love the
                  beautiful. He was educated a gentleman, and had the address by which even a
                  stranger may make himself acceptable. Leisure and observation were his objects. He
                  came near the merry-hearted group before he was seen by them, so intent were they
                  on their play.
               He bowed, and addressed the beauty, who received his courtesy gracefully, and
                  invited him to alight and see her father. Relying upon the famed hospitality of
                  the planter (a hospitality which the want of society will stimulate in the most
                  churlish hearts, especially as it costs little and has seldom-occasion for
                  exercise), he accepted the invitation, and was introduced to the father, General
                  Bateman.
               General Bateman was really a hospitable and generous-hearted man. He was pleased
                  with the traveller, and, learning his objects, invited him to pass some days, or
                  weeks, at his plantation,—the name of which was Oakridge.
               This was the commencement of an acquaintance which ripened into the warmest
                  friendship and closest connection. Mr. Boynton became deeply in love with the
                  beautiful daughter,—it could not be otherwise. Their love was mutual. The generous
                  father was happy to promote the happiness of his daughter and his friend;—and he
                  joined them in marriage, stipulating that they should reside on the plantation, at
                  least for the present. Their blissful honey-moon lasted many months, many years.
                  Her name was Angelina. She became the mother of the present Angelina and of
                  Harry.
               Meanwhile the old general became infirm. His estate had long been embarrassed, and
                  himself harassed with mortgages. Mr. Boynton, when he found out his situation,
                  relieved him; and at length the planter proposed to sell to his son-in-law his
                  plantation, with its slaves and other property. Mr. Boynton bought the estate, and
                  thus became a Carolina planter. The general lived as before, only more happily.
                  When he died, he left his remaining property to Mr. Boynton.
               The reader now sees how our history, so far at least as Harry is concerned, hinges
                  upon the gate-posts aforesaid. Had they not been erected, the children would not
                  have played about them; Mr. Boynton would not have seen Angelina, but would have
                  passed on his way; and there would have been no Harry Boynton, and no history of
                  him.
               Thus far this retrospect, though brief, is pleasant. But there is a sad side to
                  it. The beautiful, the angelic Angelina, was, by Carolina law, a slave. Her
                  mother, fair and beautiful as herself, was descended from some
                  great-great-grandmother, kidnapped from some unhappy mother, African can, American, European, or Indian (for
                  all races are made to contribute to the stock of slavery).
               General Bateman had married Angelina's mother, but that fact did not change her
                  legal relation as his slave. He would have given her a deed of emancipation, for
                  he loved and prized her above every other possession; but he was procrastinating,
                  and hated to recur to the fact that his beloved wife was legally a slave. Also he
                  supposed himself beyond the reach of adversity, and thought not of what might
                  happen after his death; and so the good and beautiful wife of General Bateman, and
                  his fair, angelic daughter Angelina, who of course followed her mother's
                  condition, were, and remained slaves.
               When General Bateman gave the beautiful Angelina in marriage to Mr. Boynton, he
                  did not think it necessary to tell the fact of her legal condition. He expected to
                  continue to live; perhaps thought of no other alternative. He could not become
                  bankrupt, and so it was needless to mention the disagreeable subject, since
                  Angelina must of course be safe while he lived; and even if he died, the heir was
                  not likely to claim Angelina as a slave, and would naturally suppose that he had
                  emancipated her mother, and thus made them both free. To guard against
                  contingency, so far as the estate was concerned, he made the arrangement by which
                  the plantation and other property became Mr. Boynton's by purchase, leaving only
                  his most precious possession, his beloved wife, at the mercy of chance and
                  Carolina slave-law.
               When General Bateman died his daughter, the wife of Mr. Boynton, and her children,
                  Harry and Angelina, became the "property" of Timothy Bateman, legal heir of
                  General Bateman; but Timothy was a half-brother, and something of a man, and
                  therefore he did not interfere to claim his property, by which forbearance Mrs.
                  Boynton lived and died in ignorance of her legal condition and danger. Timothy
                  Bateman lived till about the time when Harry came home from Wolfsden to make
                  preparation for his future bride. When Tim Bateman died, his estate fell into
                  possession of a mean, miserable, miserly fellow, named Marshy, who lived near
                  Pamlico river. Marshy had married Tim's only daughter, and had a minor son;
                  therefore Marshy came into possession of the estate as guardian of his son.
               Tim Bateman's daughter would never have stooped to marry Marshy, but for having
                  already stooped to an unlawful intimacy with one of her father's servants, whereby
                  her reputation was smutched. It made no difference with Marshy. Her father was
                  wealthy, and willing to give a good sum of money and a plantation on Pamlico
                  river, to get his daughter off his hands, even to Marshy; and finally, as we have
                  seen, the whole estate of Tim Bateman, including Mr. Pelham Boynton's children
                  (for his wife was now dead), fell by law into the possession of Marshy.
               This monstrous and horrible fact, the legitimate result of slave-law, should be
                  stated more emphatically. Harry Boynton, the noble-hearted, highly-accomplished
                  gentleman, and his sister Angelina, were legally slaves of the mean-souled,
                  miserly, and ignorant Marshy!
               But the principal parties knew not of this fact, and were therefore unlikely to be
                  affected by it. Harry never suspected that his honored mother was in law a slave;
                  nor had Tim Bateman ever told Marshy, or any others of his family, of the fact. It
                  belonged to a Yankee lawyer, belonging by birth to the noblest country under
                  heaven, member of a profession founded on the noblest uses of man's highest
                     powers, to a Yankee lawyer, or
                  rather pettifogger, to ferret out this opportunity of perpetrating villany in the
                  name of law.
               The name of this vampyre was Buzzard, of a breed prominent in the annals of
                  infamy. He came from Massachusetts, and settled in the Washington City, North
                  Carolina, already described. Would that all of his race were there! He came of
                  various stock, but all of like character. Kidnappers, slave-hunters, and other
                  traitors to humanity, were his chief progenitors. They are a well-known ancestry,
                  of different grades of society, but of one original stock. By the operation of
                  some hidden laws of generation, he inherited the vilest qualities of them all.
               This fellow, a fit agent and tool of Carolina law, began his crooked career by
                  looking up and encouraging litigation among those who had more money than good
                  sense or good nature, and by finding out loopholes and evasions for rumsellers and
                  other petty violators of law. He tried the trade of politics, and figured
                  successively as an abolitionist, an anti-mason, and a democrat, offering himself
                  to all bidders, and gaining the sobriquet of "the soldier of fortune;" and now he
                  speculated in slave-hunting, kidnapping, hunting up flaws in titles to estates and
                  titles to freedom, so that by these ingenious enterprises he turned many a pretty
                  penny.
               In the assiduous pursuit of his vocation, he had ferreted out the legal relations
                  of the Batemans and Boyntons, and after the death of General Bateman he offered
                  his services to Timothy Bateman, the uncle, to reduce the young Boyntons to
                  slavery, or compel their father to pay a high price for their freedom. Tim
                  declined his offer, and so Buzzard filed away the papers, and waited for Tim's
                  death. When that took place, and Marshy became, in effect, his heir, he posted to
                  Marshy with the same offer. Marshy was ready to turn a penny, honest or otherwise,
                  provided no risk was incurred; and Buzzard concluded a bargain with him, by which
                  Marshy should have half the profits, but be subject to no costs in case of
                  failure.
               At the present period of this history, Buzzard was engaged in looking up and
                  linking together his evidence, so as to strike sure. Much caution was required,
                  lest his object should get wind. He must find or feign other business, and make
                  acquaintance in different families, and introduce his subject indirectly; and,
                  after finding out who knew exactly what he wanted to prove, he must then carefully
                  sound the temper, sentiment, simplicity, or shrewdness, of the individual, and
                  work upon his or her weakness, avarice, envy, self-conceit, or other folly, to
                  secure and make available what might serve his purpose. All this mining, and
                  burrowing, and tampering, takes time, so that many months transpired before his
                  web of evidence was complete, and he thought safe to try its strength.
               Meantime Harry was forming plans of a happy and noble life. Whatever a magnanimous
                  mind can conceive, the ardor of youth and conscious genius counts as practicable.
                  Since his nobler faculties had become awakened, he had reflected upon the value of
                  life as a means of advancing noble principles, of promoting noble purpose, and
                  accomplishing noble ends. "The elevation of humanity," said he, "is the noblest
                  work of life. Whoever employs his talents in this direction advances toward a
                  higher sphere; and whether he raises others or not, he at least elevates himself.
                  His efforts may not seem fruitful of immediate results, but, if man is immortal,
                  it will be his great reward to contemplate the progress of the good which he began, and to see it go on
                  increasing forever."
               His destined position as a slaveholder engaged his earnest thought. While a
                  student in Harvard University, some sparks from Channing's mind had electrified
                  his understanding, and left an ineffaceable impression of the wrong of holding
                  human beings in slavery. Recollecting that such sentiments might become
                  inconvenient to the son and heir of a slaveholder, he attended other churches in
                  Boston, to get the impressions rubbed out; but the imbecile and canting defences
                  and apologies which he heard only provoked his contempt.
               "Surely," said he, "if slavery requires such prevarication of truth, such
                  perversion of religion, such prostitution of principle, and stultifying of common
                  sense, in its behalf, there must be something wrong in it." And so he set his
                  genius to devise a way to correct the wrong without attacking the institution, to
                  prune the upas-tree without destroying it.
               "I will educate my slaves," said he; "the laws forbid it, but, since the laws to
                  prevent excessive cruelty to slaves are violated with impunity, I may with equal
                  impunity disregard those which are made to degrade them. Such as show a capacity
                  for freedom I will encourage to purchase their freedom, and aid them to settle
                  where they can do well. I will promote the comfort and good morals of my slaves,
                  and rule them by good will, and not by fear. I will make myself their guardian and
                  benefactor, more than their master."
               It may seem strange that the son of a slaveholder, reared among the practical
                  workings of slavery, should suppose it possible to effect any real good for slaves
                  without first emancipating them, and removing them from the region of its
                  influence. But he had not spent many of his maturer years at home, and had not
                  reflected upon the inevitable operations of arbitrary power; and if he foresaw
                  difficulties, he trusted to overcome them. He talked over his prospects and his
                  plans with Margaret, and she shared his enthusiasm,—and they perhaps already
                  fancied themselves the patriarch and patriarchess of an Abrahamic household.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXX.
               
                  
                     
                        So they were married, and there were present the Picninnies, and the
                           Joblillies, and the great Panjandrum himself, with the little round
                           button on the top.
                     
                     —FOOTE.
                  
               
               THERE are joys which we most enjoy when the world witnesses the enjoyment. There
                  are pains that please, because they impart fame.
               Romancing fledglings of youth most delight in dazzling delights, and spurn the
                  dull happiness which challenges no admiration. Why do lovers roll the eyes in
                  ecstasy, or clasp the heaving breast in anguish, and call upon the winds to waft
                  their sighs and the briny waves to receive their tears? It is that the admiring
                  world may write their names on the sentimental page, and that the muse may chant
                  their plaintive story.
               But the sober, solid joy of maturer manhood asks no applause of others. The
                  possessor is content to possess, and dares not to awaken the astonishment or envy
                  of the world. In his own heart he rejoices unboastingly. He displays no ecstatic
                  raptures. He locks his sterling gold in strong though homely coffers, and sobers
                  his brows to unpretending content.
               But the muse of history lags. No entrancing scenes, no thrilling hopes and fears,
                  point the recording pen. The world will not admire what was only made for use, and
                  a useful life is of all lives the most useless to fancy's page.
               Thus by marriage, as surely as by death, the admired actors slip from the stage,
                  and are seen no more. When people are married, their story is told. What more can
                  be said of them? Shall we surfeit fancy's guests with home-brewed beer? Shall we
                  stuff the muses with plain beef and pudding? Shall we write a chapter, in a
                  history like this, upon the subjects of common life? Let us put them in skeleton
                  order. See the synopsis:
               "Married in Wolfsden, Thanksgiving day, by Rev. Parson Boreman, Mr. Hezekiah
                  Hobart, of Saco, to Miss Helen Arbor."—"Honey-moon—Settled down—Humdrum—Contented
                  lot—Every-day life—Washing-day life—Ironing-day life—Sunday life—Jog trot—Petty
                  cares—Dull visitors come—Go to see dull company—Linen to make
                  up—Doctor—Cradle—Plot thickens—Culminating point—Baby—Grandmother
                  comes—'As well as could be expected'—Wonderful child—Teething—Rattle—Cries for
                  moon—Baby talk—Measles—Rocking-horse—Bread and butter—Whooping-cough—A B
                  C—Sled—Satchel—Quarterly bills—Economy—Small leaks—Schemes to get and
                  save—Daughters' portions—Sons' settlements."
               Behold the materials of the matrimonial chapter. Let some aspiring child of genius
                  try his teeth upon the dry crusts, but let no dull descriptions compel my
                  courteous reader to doze over the drowsy page.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               LOVE makes strange metamorphoses. It converts a clown into a gentleman, a plodding
                  mechanic into an airy spark; or, reversing its operations, it puts a distaff into
                  the hands of a hero, and presents a spade and hoe to the delicate palm of the
                  dainty-bred scholar.
               Harry, the gay, generous, enthusiastic, sentimental lover, became a practical,
                  energetic, efficient husbandman. He planned improvements, and calculated their
                  advantages. He inspected the fields; inquired the history of their cultivation,
                  their productiveness, the adaptation of different soils and different modes of
                  culture to various products, and the profit of each; and estimated to what extent
                  animal labor might be substituted for that of men, and what new implements might
                  profitably be introduced.
               At Alek's suggestion, he had brought various tools from New York, of a
                  construction and quality very different from Carolina tools. There were ploughs,
                  and yokes, and harrows, and hoes, and twenty other things, to take the place of
                  the clumsy, inefficient contrivances with which the plantation had been worked. To
                  one of his most intelligent slaves he endeavored to impart the teamster's art, as
                  he had seen it practised in Wolfsden; and, notwithstanding his own small
                  experience rience, and the awkwardness of the slave and the oxen, he soon showed
                  them that two teamsters, at most, were sufficient to manage one pair of cattle,
                  and that the plough had capabilities beyond the mere scratching of the surface of
                  the soil.
               He examined the negro quarters, and, though they were more comfortable than on
                  most plantations in North Carolina, where they are generally better than further
                  south, still he found much to mend, about which he gave directions, and also gave
                  the occupants the time and materials necessary for the improvements, and although
                  he soon found that enslaved human nature is little capable of enterprise,
                  trustworthiness, sincerity, economy, or any of the virtues of self-respecting
                  manhood, and that whatever may be done to ameliorate the slave's wretchedness
                  serves chiefly to awaken hopes and stimulate desires incompatible with his
                  condition, yet he persevered, and in improving their outward comforts and
                  decencies hoped that he had already done something toward their real
                  elevation.
               It cannot be known what might have been the final result of his progress, after
                  coming into possession of the estate; for while his father lived he would not
                  presume upon any radical measures, and after his father's death his own course was
                  suddenly arrested in a way which the reader may have already foreseen. It is
                  probable that his growing convictions of duty, and his experience of the futility
                  of half-way reform, would finally have led him to emancipate his slaves from
                  servitude and himself from the responsibility of managing human beings by any
                  means, however mild, which denies the exercise of man's noblest birthright—the
                  free exercise of his will. Perhaps his gradually advancing soul might have
                     risen in the scale of justice and
                  magnanimity, till his tongue would have been compelled to utter the thrilling
                  words, "Be free! O man, be free!"
               At first, his plans of improvement could not be expected to flow wholly in this
                  channel. His approaching happiness, the preparation of his home for his coming
                  bride, and all bright visions of the fancied future, filled his soul.
               "I will give to my home," said he, "all the outward perfections and beauty it is
                  capable of, till she, the soul of beauty and perfection, shall come to give it
                  life. When it is made worthy to receive her, it will need no other adornment but
                  her presence. It will then be an Eden of happy joys, and hopes, and attainments,
                  that shall ripen unto immortality."
               The home wherein Harry promised himself so much happiness certainly seemed to
                  possess great capabilities. Bating the climate, which, even with the best
                  circumstances, slackens and unstrings the firm fibres of the human frame, on which
                  life's vigorous use and enjoyments, both bodily and mental, depend; and bating the
                  deteriorating effect of isolation from cultivated, society, by which alone the
                  human faculties can be stimulated and balanced to produce their best results; and
                  bating the restriction upon free thought and free section, except in accordance
                  with institutions and usages hostile to generous thoughts and just acts; and
                  making some other necessary deductions from what a New Englander includes in the
                  idea of independence, and comfort, and home, Oakridge was a delightful
                  place,—something dilapidated, but so much the better for one bent on
                  improvement.
               The house stood upon an eminence, which declined thence toward the road and toward
                  the south, but gradually ascended toward the north and west, in which direction
                  were many scattering oaks, irregularly but pleasantly grouped, and growing more
                  thickly as the distance increased, till at length they formed a majestic grove,
                  mostly excluding the sun, yet protesting a mingled grassy and leafy lawn, where it
                  was pleasant to wander, and imagine how sweet would be such a solitude with a
                  loved companion to whom one could say, "How sweet is solitude!"
               On the southern slope were scattered various ornamental trees; two or three
                  magnolias, many china-trees, and beyond them a mixed plantation of wild orange,
                  persimmon, pomegranate, and wild cherry. Smaller fruit and ornamental trees and
                  shrubs adorned the front view, among which were the fig, the peach, and the
                  crab-apple, with rose-bushes, syringas, altheas, anemones, &c. An arched way,
                  covered with climbing roses and ivy, led to an embowered summer-house; both of
                  which, however, through neglect and decay, with the encroachment of weeds and
                  mould, presented an appearance of doubtful ornament. Over the court separating the
                  house from the kitchen an enormous grape-vine, supported by a rude trellis, spread
                  its extensive branches, yielding abundant clusters of the rich and delicious
                  "scuppernong" grape.
               By Harry's energy and taste, all these decayed beauties and capabilities were
                  restored and improved. The arched bower and summer-house were newly trimmed and
                  opened to healthy and inviting light and air, and adorned with plants of choice
                  beauty; camellias, japonicas, geraniums, and whatever nature makes beautiful, or
                  rarity makes desirable. Trees and vines were pruned and cultivated to invite their
                  appropriate fruit. The gate was newly hinged, and the house repaired and
                  embellished.
               Upon one room, whose windows opened toward the setting sun through embowering rose-bushes, and jessamines,
                  and honeysuckles, Harry expended his best resources and best skill, taxing his own
                  ingenuity and his sister's taste to arrange and adapt the beautiful furniture and
                  choice books he had provided, so as to combine the attractions and elegances of a
                  library and a lady's boudoir. "For," said Harry, "our hearts and minds will take
                  some influence from the things about us, and will tend more to refinement and
                  beauty where all else is refined and beautiful."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               MEANTIME many notes of preparation were heard in Wolfsden. Margaret threw aside
                  her sketch-book and other idle amusements, and took to the spinning-wheel and
                  other thrifty implements of female industry. It were vain to recount the webs of
                  linen, coarse and fine; of flannel, thick and thin; of check for aprons, and
                  stripe for skirts; of stockings, and yarns, and threads of every color, for
                  knitting, and darning, and sewing; of quiltings, and counterpanes, and comforters,
                  and curtains, which comprise the fitting out of a Yankee bride. Aunt Dolly, the
                  bounteous mother, was determined that her one daughter should not go slenderly
                  furnished. And Margaret, prompted by many admonitions and stories of her mother's
                  experience, and also by her own activity, carded and spun and wove, and sewed and
                  knit and quilted, colored and bleached, till those who had depreciated her
                  housewifely qualities were compelled to acknowledge that she might be good for
                  something, after all.
               More than twenty maidens, mindful of customs which might some day bring them equal
                  advantages, brought their marriage presents; so that when the wedding day came, a
                  pile of chests, and bales, and bundles, of things home-made or bought, or given, were accumulated, which would
                  have astonished the pilgrims of the Mayflower.
               Some articles of doubtful utility were presented. Little Amy brought a basketful
                  of little stockings and mittens of her own knitting, requesting that they should
                  be given to the little slave-girls of Carolina, of whom she had heard that they
                  had no stockings and mittens; and the adjutant brought a hand-sled and a pair of
                  bantams for the slave-boys. Billy and Tommy brought a pair of pintadids, or
                  Guinea-hens (most pugnacious of all gallinaceous fowl); "These," said they, "will
                  drive away the hawks." The blue-eyed Chinby daughters sent some pretty night-caps,
                  and also knit hoods and buskins, to keep out the Carolina snow-storms. Lucinda
                  Boreman sent pincushions and fancy-worked moccasins; and Ax, who, since his
                  prospect of becoming a school-master, had put away childish things, sent his
                  skates, to be kept for Margaret's oldest boy.
               The wedding-day came as appointed. We will not describe it. All readers have had,
                  or hope to have, a wedding-day of their own, compared with which all other
                  wedding-days are but as fast days. Major Murray would have made a solemn affair of
                  it, but the overflowing good-humor of the guests, and the fun of the boys and
                  girls, were too much for his solemnity to repress; and, recollecting that he had
                  no more daughters to marry, he let things go as they would, and all had a happy
                  time. Parson Boreman performed the ceremony, and, while thinking all the time of
                  the old mistake about the divinity student, tried to look as if he had entirely
                  forgotten it. Harry, to please the parson and his new father-in-law by not
                  appearing too happy, put on an edifying gravity, which made Fanny ask Margaret, in
                  a whisper, if he really meant to be a doctor of divinity.
               All this was on Thanksgiving day. The happy couple soon departed for North
                  Carolina, and passed the winter on their plantation; and when the reader is
                  informed that they passed it happily, he must conclude that they carried a large
                  stock of happiness with them, to outlast the drizzly, dirty dreariness of a
                  Carolina winter.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               SPRING, which chases dulness and dreariness from its strongest holds, came to
                  Oakridge, bringing bland gales, and green, flowering turf, and opening buds and
                  leaves, and sweet fragrance, and sportive butterflies, and humming bees, and the
                  welcome warbling of many birds.
               But sadness came with the spring to Oakridge. The beloved father, who, for many
                  months, had been declining, but who promised to himself and children that the
                  spring would restore his health, found instead that, his life was passing
                  away.
               He was prepared to die; for he was a Christian. To those who have hearts to
                  understand (for it requires hearts even more than heads to understand) the wrongs
                  of slavery, this may seem impossible. But a right judgement, formed from a just
                  estimate of all the circumstances, will not make the slaveholders chiefly
                  responsible for the guilt. Compared with northern abettors and apologists, and
                  especially with those who press the Bible into its support, thus corrupting the
                  very fountain of morals and religion, their sin is small. And there are some among
                  them who sincerely strive to keep their hearts and consciences free from
                  guiltiness toward their brethren in bonds, by doing all they think practicable to
                  lighten and loosen the yoke, and whom a little instruction and aid would lead to
                  break the yoke and let the oppressed go free.
               Mr. Boynton was one of the best of this not too numerous class. His eyes were not
                  opened to see the radical and inherent wrong of slavery. Perhaps the Bible
                  arguments in its favor, emanating from northern theological schools, had convinced
                  him that slavery was a divine institution, since no answering arguments are
                  allowed to circulate in the south. Yet, though his religious light might thus be
                  turned into darkness, his native benevolence and sense of right made him a kind
                  master, even to the extent of offending the proprietors of neighboring
                  plantations, who complained that the notions Boynton encouraged among his slaves
                  would ruin not only himself, but, if allowed, would overthrow the whole stem of
                  slavery in his section.
               And, indeed, there seemed good reason for their animadversions; for it was very
                  clear that if Mr. Boynton had possessed no other resources than those derived from
                  the plantation, he must long ago have become bankrupt. Such is the natural and
                  necessary waste of slavery, that nothing short of severe and grinding oppression
                  will make it profitable. Planters in the older states, who have not the
                  perseverance or the heart to exact all possible labor from their slaves, and to
                  watch and guard that they eat no more than barely sufficient to sustain life and
                  labor, are frequently obliged, in their own phrase, to "eat a nigger," namely, to
                  balance accounts by the sale of a babe, or a mother, or a maiden, or a "boy."
               But Mr. Boynton was free both from the grinding oppression and the cannibalism;
                  and though, perhaps, not a perfect Christian, was probably at least as good as
                  many made by the missionaries at the
                  Fejee or Sandwich islands, or on Greenland's icy mountains, or India's coral
                  strand.
               We have alluded to the church relations of the family as Episcopalian. Mr. Boynton
                  was a faithful churchman. He had regularly read prayers to his slaves on Sundays,
                  and Angelina constantly instructed them in the catechism. Often he had addressed
                  them individually and collectively on religion, assuring them of their
                  immortality, and teaching them the conditions of salvation.
               When he now found that his life was drawing to a close, he called them together,
                  and, addressing them with great solemnity, told them of his approaching death, and
                  his hope to meet them in heaven, where there would be no masters or servants, but
                  where all would be brethren. He then read to them, from the burial service, the
                  authoritative argument of St. Paul, proving the immortality of the soul.
               1 Cor. 15: 20.—"Now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of
                  them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of
                  the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. * *
                  Behold, I show you a mystery: We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,
                  in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump. For the trumpet shall
                  sound and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For
                  this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on
                  immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this
                  mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying
                  that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O Death, where is thy sting? O
                  Grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin and the strength of sin is
                  the law. But thanks be to God, who giveth us the victory, through our Lord Jesus
                  Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always
                  abounding in the work of the Lord; forasmuch as ye know that your labor is not in
                  vain in the Lord."
               Thus, with religious rites and instructions, and many parting blessings, and
                  tokens of remembrance, the good old man dismissed his slaves, who lingered and
                  wept as they took their last earthly leave of one who was indeed their friend, and
                  with a little better knowledge of duty would have been their benefactor.
               To his children, Harry, and Margaret, and Angelina, he gave many salutary counsels
                  and consolations. "I am going," said he, "to join your angel mother. Weep not for
                  me, for I go in peace and joy, trusting to meet you again where we shall part no
                  more."
               As his children knelt by his side, he placed his hands on their heads, and gave
                  them his benediction; and, having thus set his house in order, he gradually sunk
                  to repose.
               His body rests beneath the bay-tree which spreads its branches above yonder grassy
                  knoll, and by the side of his once beautiful bride—the lovely Angelina.
               How short the time since he first saw her playing by the gate of her father's
                  dwelling, as he was journeying to the south, when her beauty had power to arrest
                  his journey, and to bind him forever to her side in the strong bonds of undying
                  love!
               Clothed in celestial bodies, they now rejoice in a higher sphere. The once fair
                  forms of mortal mould have served their purpose, and now and evermore they rest
                  beneath the bay-tree, emblem of everlasting peace.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               HARRY and Margaret sat in their favorite room, whose windows opened to the setting
                  sun. The spring was far advanced, and the summer approaching, yet the prolific
                  rose-bushes still put forth and spread their swelling buds, which the slight
                  breeze made to wave against the windows, as if seeking admission to the paradise
                  of love, while the full-blossomed honeysuckle diffused sweet odors around.
               Margaret had been sewing on some delicate fabric, of a form not as yet exactly
                  defined, though, perhaps, a practised eye might detect its design. Harry had been
                  reading to her the plaintive ballad of "The Somnambulist," from Wordsworth.
               "Sir Eglamore and Emma loved as we love," said Harry, laying down the book, and
                  lifting the fair hand of his lovely wife to his lips. "They loved as we love,
                  though their fate was not so happy as ours."
               "I was strongly impressed," replied Margaret, "by the saying of the wise Greek
                  whom you read about the other day that no man could be accounted happy till the
                  day of his death, for there is no happiness in life so secure that a moment may
                  not destroy it."
               "The Greek's wisdom was not worth much," said Harry "if it teaches us to
                  undervalue present happiness, because we may at some time lose it. If I have a
                  genius for anything it is for making the most of happiness, not only by taking all
                  possible precautions to secure it, but also by appreciating it while in
                  possession, even as now;" and the kiss before bestowed upon the fair hand was now
                  impressed upon the lovelier lips.
               "My kind husband," said Margaret, "your genius is worth all the wisdom of all the
                  Greeks put together. Your never-failing cheerfulness is like the sunshine which
                  makes everything pleasant; otherwise I fear that, with all my happiness in your
                  love, I should be sometimes sad."
               "Dearest wife," said Harry, "I shall tax my genius to chase away all your sadness.
                  Perhaps what you told me of yesterday, and which makes me happier than ever, gives
                  a temporary depression to your spirits. But you must be kept cheerful now, for
                  your health's sake, and for the sake of our happy hopes."
               Margaret hid her face in her husband's bosom, and replied, "Dearest, I am
                  perfectly happy, even when I may appear sad. Do you not know," said she, again
                  looking up, "that the best happiness does not always show outwardly, just as
                  people may be very mirthful with no happiness at all? How merry the slaves often
                  appear, though we know that their lot is not only wretched, but that they feel it
                  to be so."
               "How I wish," said Harry, "that I could make everybody happy! Do you think our
                  servants would have a better chance of happiness if we should send them into the
                  free states?"
               "I know that they think so," said Margaret,—"those of them who think at all,—and
                  indeed I think so. I know that the
                  kindness they receive from you is everything it can be, short of freedom; and I
                  suppose their inexperience would, if free, lead them into many hardships. But you
                  know that much of our happiness comes from surmounting hardships; and, at any
                  rate, the best chance of happiness to their posterity would be in freedom.
               "And I have some thoughts," replied Harry, "that the best chance, for our
                  posterity would be in freedom—the freedom of the free states, which is the only
                  freedom in the land. There all men may elevate themselves, and others, according
                  to their abilities, and look with hope instead of fear upon the advancement of
                  just principles, and the approach of the good time coming."
               "My dear husband," said Margaret, "how perfectly united are our thoughts! If we
                  have children, it is my most earnest prayer that they may have the advantages of
                  the free states, and, if possible, that their home may be there. I wish for
                  nothing to be done contrary to your judgment; but I am prepared for any sacrifice
                  of position or property for this object, when you are ready."
               "We will consider of this," said Harry, taking her hand and leading her to the
                  window, where they looked upon the sunny landscape.
               Many humming-birds darted and poised their tiny forms of green and gold among them
                  festoons of lithe branches and sweet flowers which hung against the windows, and
                  mingled their shadows with the rays of the declining sun.
               The orioles sang at intervals their sweetly-wild and careless notes, as they wove
                  their pendent nest to the end of a waving branch of a tall and slender
                  persimmon-tree.
               A pair of turtle doves mingled the varied notes of their plaintive melody, sadly
                  seeming, yet truly joyful in fond and faithful love as they peered among the
                  branches of the far-spreading grape-vine, now clothed in its young leaves, and
                  putting forth its clustered blossoms.
               Two Carolina mocking-birds, most wonderful warblers of all the feathered tribes,
                  perched among the branches of a pomegranate, poured forth their inexhaustibly
                  various songs, now of surpassing and original beauty, now plagiarizing and
                  parodying the productions of every rival warbler.
               Many robins hopped about the green lawn, and pecked the scattered seeds and
                  crumbs, or gathered little filaments or feathers to line their connubial nests,
                  and ever and anon peered around and above, that no treacherous beast or bird of
                  prey should take them unawares.
               A peacock, proudest and most splendid of all plumed birds, strutted in sight of
                  his admiring harem, and spread his gorgeous train, reflecting the sun's rays in
                  forms and hues of indescribable splendor and beauty, while with hollow, murmuring
                  voice he expressed his amorous desires.
               A flock of field-sparrows rose like a cloud from the twigs and garden stubble, and
                  wheeled about in close phalanx, often and again opening and reclosing their ranks,
                  till they settled where they rose, and vanished from view, as did Clan Alpine's
                  warriors true on Benledi's side, at sign from Roderick Dhu.
               Thus nature's broad bright page spread forth its lessons of love and joy, teaching
                  how abundant is the benevolence of that Power who framed the universe on a plan of
                  universal, all-embracing love.
               But lessons of caution, of danger, and defence, need also to be taught. And while
                  they looked, a sudden shadow flapped by
                  the window and darkened the sunshine. It was a monstrous turkey-buzzard, most
                  obscene and hateful of all the vulture race. The merry mocking-birds, and golden
                  orioles, and busy robins, and murmuring turtle doves, and bright humming-birds,
                  and myriad field-sparrows, all disappeared hidden in the branches, or fled far
                  away.
               The unwieldy and foul bird had alighted on a fence, and looked audaciously and
                  securely around, like the horrid harpies whom Æneas encountered on dire
                  Strophadean shores,— audaciously and securely, for it, too, like human harpies, is
                  protected in its rapacity and obscenity by Carolina law.*
               
               
                  *It is unlawful to kill the turkey-buzzard and black vulture in Carolina.
               
               But, lo! a lesson of courage also, and defence. The two pintadids, presented by
                  Tommy and Billy, set up a scream of defiance, and flew fiercely at their menacing
                  foe; and, as the cock threatened him in front, the hen darted a stunning blow upon
                  the back of the buzzard's head, which tumbled him from his perch. The clumsy
                  creature, cowardly as voracious, spread his huge wings and flew skulkingly away,
                  pursued and insulted by the screaming and triumphant pintadids. "Hurra for the
                  Wolfsdenners!" exclaimed Harry.
               These lessons of love, of danger, and defence, were seasonably given. Whoever
                  watches the indications of nature and Providence will find counsel for every
                  emergency.
               At that moment the door opened, and a little woolly-headed house-servant announced
                  that "a gemman wanted to see mas'r."
               Harry stepped into the parlor, and was agreeably surprised to find and old college
                  acquaintance and friend, whom he had not seen for two or three years,—Dr.
                  Drinkmore, formerly for a brief space a tutor in Harvard University.
               Dr. Drinkmore was a citizen of the world; one of its best-natured, but not
                  best-respected citizens. He was one, like Hamlet's friend Horatio, whose revenue
                  was his good spirits, and who took fortune's buffets and favors with equal thanks;
                  that is, he abused the favors, and fought manfully against the buffets. He was an
                  Englishman and a scholar, educated at Oxford. His besetting sin was conviviality,
                  generally degenerating into drunkenness. He had reformed twenty times, and as
                  often relapsed; and had out-worn the philanthropy of fifty friends, who hard again
                  and again reformed and re-reformed him. His learning and talents were eminent, and
                  his manners so pleasant that he always found some patron to help and set him in
                  the right way. Harry was one of those who had done him that service. He was
                  grateful for such kindness. But, however he fortified himself by good resolutions
                  and pledges, he would sooner or later relapse, though he sometimes persevered for
                  one or two years at a time. When he had forfeited his position in England, he came
                  to Boston, and, his abilities being discovered, he was employed as tutor at
                  Cambridge, whence, but for a relapse to dissipation, he might have risen to a
                  professorship.
               Since about that time Harry had lost sight of him, and was now exceedingly pleased
                  to see him, especially as his appearance indicated health and prosperity, and
                  still more when informed, in a subsequent conversation, that he was a temperance
                  man of "fourteen years' standing."
               After a brief enjoyment of the hospitalities of the house Dr. Drinkmore requested
                  of Harry to show him the plantation
                  tion. When they had proceeded so far as to be out of hearing, the doctor told him
                  the object of his visit.
               "I have come," said he, "to warn you of a terrible danger. I knew of it but this
                  morning, and have averted it for a single day, which I employ to warn you against
                  to-morrow.
               "I am nominally a law-student at Squire Buzzard's, in Washington. I am writing a
                  book which requires me to know something of manners in the south, and also
                  something of your rascally laws; so I avail myself of a lawyer's office, which
                  serves both purposes, and, by entering myself as student, I avoid troublesome
                  inquiries. In this situation, besides seeing many villanies which I have not
                  interfered with, since I could not prevent them, I became cognizant of a plot to
                  reduce a gentleman and a lady, his sister, to slavery. I was this morning invited
                  by Buzzard to be one of a chivalrous party, armed with pistols and like
                  persuasives, to accomplish that object, and was about declining, with proper
                  thanks for the honor, when the name of the gentleman for whom the favor was
                  intended happened to be mentioned. The name was HARRY BOYNTON! Upon inquiry, I
                  found that it was doubtless my old college friend and benefactor; and I at once
                  accepted the invitation, stipulating that the excursion should be put off till
                  to-morrow. The time thus gained I have employed to learn the facts, or pretences,
                  on which this procedure is based, and to give you warning."
               Dr. Drinkmore then informed Harry of what he had found, by examining the papers in
                  the office, relating to his descent from a slave-mother, and his consequent
                  defencelessness by Carolina law, of which the reader is already informed. He added
                  that Buzzard and Marshy, with several assistants, were coming, on the following
                  day, to seize both him and his sister.
               "It is their plan, however," said he, "not to use force, if they can prevail by
                  stratagem. They will probably make some pretence of business requiring your
                  attendance at Washington, where resistance would be out of the question. They
                  will, however, come prepared to use force if fraud shall fail. Their object is
                  doubtless to extort money from your family for your ransom; for I heard Buzzard
                  say the prize was worth at least ten thousand dollars, which, I believe, is above
                  the market price for mere human blood, and sinews, and souls, in this beautiful
                  country. But, whatever their object, I am ready to help defeat it, and will give
                  my services in any way you will command them—only the more fight the better."
               Harry's countenance showed every variety of indignant emotion while the doctor
                  told his story. At its conclusion he replied:
               "My dear friend, you have rendered me a most important service. I know the
                  character of that Buzzard, and I now recall that I have been informed of some
                  inquiries of his in relation to my affairs, which seemed strange and impertinent,
                  but not of enough importance to be noticed, though they now serve to confirm your
                  account. It has been many months since, and he has doubtless thoroughly matured
                  his plan; for he would not venture upon such an outrage except upon safe legal
                  ground. My position requires decided, and perhaps desperate action. I think I am
                  equal to it. My grandfather and my brave grand-uncle, still living in Wolfsden,
                  fought for freedom, when their case was not so imminent as mine; and I feel some
                  of their blood tingling in my veins
                  just now. But I must not involve you in the affair. You have done a friend's duty,
                  for which I am grateful. Now leave the affair to me, and I will fight or fly, as
                  seems safest on reflection."
               "My brave friend," said Drinkmore, "I see you mean to fight, which is also to my
                  taste at present; so that you must receive me as a volunteer, or I will fight on
                  my own hook. I shall not suffer you to be engaged against such odds without
                  sharing your danger; and, let me tell you, I am no mean ally. Would you like to
                  see me snuff a candle at twenty paces? I have brought my pistols on purpose to
                  show you the experiment, and also for more important services. You will disoblige
                  me if you refuse my assistance."
               "I shall not disoblige you, then, but receive your aid thankfully. At what time
                  to-morrow will they arrive?"
               "At ten or eleven, at latest; perhaps earlier," said the doctor.
               "Then let us plan the campaign at once," said Harry. They did so; and, without
                  detailing their conversation, we will briefly state their resources and plan of
                  defence. Harry's slaves were about fifty in number, of whom some fifteen were
                  able-bodied men. They were all well attached to him; but their ability as soldiers
                  had not been tried, and the present crisis was too important to be trusted to raw
                  troops. There was one among them, however, called Ben Blacksmith, so named from
                  his trade, being the Vulcan of the plantation, a fellow of herculean strength and
                  dauntless courage, whom Harry counted as a match for a dozen common men without
                  fire-arms.
               "But, as they will come armed," said Harry, "we will combine our stratagem with
                  his strength, and it shall go hard but we three can take care of at least a dozen
                  such as you have described."
               It was planned to take the assailing party prisoners, and thus prevent their
                  seeking reinforcements, while Harry should have time to take other measures of
                  safety. Angelina was already safe from present danger; for she had accepted an
                  invitation from her uncle in New York, and was now there on a visit, a fact which,
                  from the carelessness of their spy, had escaped the vigilance of Buzzard and
                  Marshy. Harry was, therefore, the only person liable to be seized; and he might
                  have arranged for his wife's protection, and sought his own safety in flight, but
                  he chose to face the danger; "for," said he, "I, too, am a Wolfsdenner."
               There was under a part of the house a Wine-cellar, deep and securely built, where
                  many barrels of the rich juice of the scuppernong grape had matured, especially in
                  the old proprietor's day; and even now, though seldom visited, it was not
                  destitute of the delicious beverage.
               "It will be a very convenient prison for our invaders," said Harry, "if we can but
                  persuade them to enter it."
               "I will undertake that business," said the doctor, "'if I have a genius for
                  anything,' as a certain college pupil of mine used to say, it is for leading and
                  being led into wine-cellars; only you provide the force to keep them from coming
                  out."
               "That I will," said Harry; and, calling a velvet urchin playing near, he sent for
                  Ben Blacksmith. Ben soon appeared, and, with hat in hand, bowed to the gentlemen,
                  and drew himself up, as waiting orders. He was more than six feet high, and built
                  on the most approved model of strength and activity; besides which, there was a
                  look of intelligence and determination in him, which would have made him in the eyes of most planters what is termed a
                  "dangerous fellow,"—not the kind most coveted by buyers; but, having been raised
                  on the plantation, and always treated with consideration, he was a willing and
                  faithful servant. He stood before them grim and stalwart, as stood the genie of
                  the lamp before Aladdin, ready to do his bidding, but conscious of his own
                  power.
               Ben was not a man of many words, often substituting a language of gestures and
                  figures of action more expressive than words.
               "Ben," said Harry, "can you fight?"
               Ben closed his brawny hands and brilliant teeth, and, looking down upon his strong
                  legs and arms, he inspected them separately, as a general inspects his troops
                  before action, and, being satisfied that all was right, he gave an affirmative
                  nod.
               "Well, Ben, there's a fight ahead. You know Marshy?" Ben knew Marshy, and, sharing
                  the general sentiment of contempt for him, he replied affirmatively by a
                  disparaging snap of his fingers.
               "Well," said Harry, "that Marshy and Squire Buzzard, and a dozen more such
                  fellows, are coming to-morrow to make slaves of us. What shall we do with
                  them?"
               Ben looked about for an illustration. A huge spider was crawling upon the ground
                  near by. Ben pointed at it with the toe of his brogan, and then, with a rhetorical
                  lifting of the leg, he set his heel emphatically upon the ugly insect.
               "That's what you would do about it, eh?" said Harry. "Well, Ben, that's my
                  mind."
               Harry then gave Ben particular information and instructions concerning the service
                  required, and what subsequent proceedings would be necessary, as will hereafter be
                  developed veloped. Having dismissed him, and fully arranged the order of
                  proceedings with Drinkmore, the doctor departed for Washington, to return on the
                  morning with the marauding party, according to agreement.
               Harry returned to his wife, and gave a full account of all that had passed.
                  Margaret's confidence in her husband's ability and courage to meet this strange
                  emergency was equal to her love. Like a sensible woman, she strengthened her
                  husband's hands by approbation of his resolution, and proffered assistance. She
                  expressed no fears for the result, and declared her readiness to take any part in
                  the battle for freedom which might become a lady Wolfsdenner and the wife of a
                  Boynton.
               Thus sustained, Harry completed his preparations, not only to foil his foes, but
                  for a final departure from the plantation. He knew that the estate, including the
                  slaves, must fall to his uncle as collateral heir, if his own slave-descent and
                  consequent incapacity to inherit under Carolina law should be proved and therefore
                  the property was safe from Marshy. He wrote immediately to Mr. Brooks, a
                  respectable lawyer in Washington, stating the proceedings, and requesting him to
                  act as attorney and agent for himself and his uncle, until one of them should
                  appear. He then packed up his valuables and sent them with a wagon and team of
                  mules to Plymouth, a port on Albemarle Sound, with orders of shipment to New York.
                  The family carriage and horses were put in order for travelling; and, having
                  prepared his pistols for action, he waited events.
               It was nearly eleven o'clock the next day, when the boy whom Harry had ordered to
                  watch for company announced that a
                  "smart chance of gemmen and 'osses were coming up de lane."
               "How many?" said his master.
               "May be twenty or forty," said the dark curly-pate, whose notions of numbers were
                  not very definite.
               Harry looked; there were, as he expected, about a dozen. There was one carriage
                  occupied by four persons, and doubtless intended for his own conveyance back.
               Buzzard, and Marshy, and Dr. Drinkmore, were of the party. The others were also
                  partly known to Harry, particularly a Mr. Sycophant Curtis, whom Harry counted the
                  most despicable of the whole crew, inasmuch as the others were prompted by hope of
                  gain or other common temptations to their base work, and showed some tokens of
                  shame and repugnance, while Curtis acted only from inherent baseness, in which he
                  felt no degradation.
               Besides this cheesy, passionless-looking fellow, there were several of lower
                  degree; Butmans, Byrneses, &c., too insignificant even to be inscribed on the
                  rolls of infamy.
               Only four entered the house—Buzzard, Marshy, Curtis, and Dr. Drinkmore. The doctor
                  appeared as a stranger. Buzzard put on a pompous business air, as usual; though
                  evidently flustered and confused. Marshy skulked behind, like a cur who doubts his
                  company, and keeps an eye on the door of retreat. But Curtis, who saw nothing in
                  the business out of the common course, appeared as usual, bland and
                  imperturbable.
               Harry received the company with composed dignity. A servant handed chairs. Buzzard
                  opened the business with a well-conned lie, saying that a measure of great
                  importance to the public, especially to planters and men of property, required
                  quired the presence and deliberation of freeholders and men of influence in
                  Washington, and they had come to escort him thither.
               Harry replied that he was very sensible of the honor they were doing him, and
                  would readily reciprocate their kindness. Turning to a servant, he sent orders
                  that dinner should be served up with despatch, and that the gentlemen's horses
                  should be cared for. The outsiders were invited in, and a brief general
                  conversation of news, weather, &c., followed, and Harry soon asked if they
                  would like to look over his plantation while dinner was in preparation. Dr.
                  Drinkmore assented, remarking that he felt somewhat thirsty.
               "Then, we'll first visit the wine-cellar, and take your opinions of my wine," said
                  Harry. And, ordering lights, he led the whole company down a labyrinthine flight
                  of passages to a deep cellar, in which there was a long row of barrels on one
                  side, and shelves filled with bottles on the other. There was a table on which
                  were also bottles with glasses and corkscrews, and a huge covered basket. About
                  the table were two or three chairs and a rude bench. Harry asked the company to be
                  seated; and then, ringing a small bell, he stepped back to the door, and was
                  immediately joined by Ben Blacksmith, with a heavy sledge-hammer in his hand.
               Harry, standing in the doorway by the side of Ben, and exhibiting a pair of
                  pistols, requested Dr. Drinkmore to pass out from the cellar, with which request
                  he immediately complied. The astonished and alarmed company would have been glad
                  to follow, but there was something in Harry's eye and attitude, in connection with
                  his weapons and the giant Vulcan by his side, which held them motionless. Ben,
                  perhaps, thought he saw a desperate purpose to force the passage sage; for he set his teeth with peculiar ferocity,
                  and gave a flourish of his ponderous hammer, wielding it as lightly as the
                  fencing-master flourishes his foils, and struck the granite wall with a force
                  which scattered splinters over the cellar. The demonstration was sufficient.
               Harry, looking at Ben, said, "These are the fellows I told you of; what would you
                  do with them?"
               Ben thrust his hand into a pocket, and, taking thence a handful of hazel-nuts, he
                  threw them into his capacious mouth, and, shutting his strong jaws with an
                  emphatic gesture, he ground them as a horse grinds oats.
               "That is," said Harry, "you would chaw 'em up!"
               The black nodded approvingly, as if to say that he could not himself have
                  expressed it better.
               "They deserve it," said Harry; "but they shall first have a fair trial. Buzzard,"
                  continued he, addressing that individual, "I hear that you have been making some
                  inquiries concerning my family. I presume that bundle of papers in your pocket may
                  relate to the subject. Toss them this way."
               Buzzard saw that resistance was hopeless, and gave up the papers.
               "Now, villains," said Harry, "I shall leave you here till I resolve upon your
                  fate. You will find water in those bottles. The wine is removed, not being proper
                  for persons in your condition. There is corn-bread and bacon in that
                  basket,—lawful provision for a week; at the expiration of that time, more will be
                  supplied. I leave you candles and a Bible and prayer-book, and advise you to spend
                  your remaining days, or hours, in penitence."
               Harry's calm and deliberate look and speech struck more terror into the hearts of
                  his captives than any demonstration of anger could have done. Buzzard, a poltroon
                  in danger as a tyrant when in power, began to beg for freedom, and offered, in
                  behalf of himself and Marshy, to cancel all claims against his person, and give
                  legal papers of freedom, with whatever damages he might require; and Marshy
                  offered to sign any papers and make any atonement in his power. But Harry knew,
                  even if he had been disposed to compromise, that agreements made under such
                  circumstances would not be legally binding, and that therefore no reliance could
                  be put on their engagements. Poor Butman was still more humbled. With blanched
                  face and chattering teeth, he begged piteously for liberation. He called heaven to
                  witness that he intended no harm; that he did not come to kidnap, and never would
                  do so again. He would be Harry's obedient servant and friend forever, if set free;
                  and said that nothing but his poverty had induced him to join Buzzard. As Harry
                  looked upon that abject wretch, and then upon the brave Ben Blacksmith by his
                  side, he mentally said, "And that is one of the Anglo-Saxon race, who pride
                  themselves upon their vast superiority over such as this African!"
               Harry commanded them all to be silent; and, closing and double-locking the massive
                  door, left them to their reflections. He did not intend to keep them imprisoned
                  longer than necessary for his own safety, but meant thoroughly to frighten
                  them.
               The papers taken from Buzzard proved to be what Harry expected. Besides Buzzard's
                  agreement with Marshy to do the business on shares, there was a complete history
                  of the Bateman and Boynton family, with dates of marriages, births, deaths,
                  connections, &c.; a schedule of slaves and other possessions sessions, and a list of witnesses and particulars
                  proving the fact of Harry and his sister's descent from a slave-mother, the
                  property of General Bateman, whose children, not being included in the sale to
                  Harry's father, were therefore the property of the heirs.
               The evident accuracy and authenticity of the information, so far as Harry knew the
                  various circumstances enumerated, left no doubt that Buzzard had made out a clear
                  case according to Carolina law, and that there was no hope for safety but in
                  flight.
               As his indignant soul revolved the atrocity of the scheme devised against him, and
                  of the laws which justified it; and as he reflected that the wretches who had
                  come, to reduce himself and sister to a state of unutterable wretchedness were now
                  in his power, and that the papers containing the facts upon which they relied were
                  in his possession, and that probably no other persons knew or would search out the
                  facts, and therefore, if these persons and papers were destroyed, the conspiracy
                  against him would be ended; and as he considered, further, that, since the laws of
                  his country gave him no protection, he owed them no obedience, and he was
                  therefore morally free to use his natural rights of self-protection, he felt a
                  tide of unaccustomed emotions fill and agitate his heart.
               Phrenologists say that when the organs of combativeness and destructiveness are
                  strongly excited, they force the whole moral energies into their own channel. It
                  was so with Harry. The protection of his own rights demanded retributive vengeance
                  on his foes. He meditated on his position,—an outlaw, though innocent of wrong,
                  and beset by ruffians protected by law. He wandered the floor with accelerated
                  steps. His hands were unconsciously clenched, and his teeth firmly set. The
                  muscles of his face, formed to express good will, were now contracted into the
                  lineaments of resolute wrath. His eyes glared with a terrible fire. His chest
                  heaved with quick, panting rage. His breath came frequent and hot. He was ripe for
                  a desperate deed.
               Ready means for safe and speedy execution were not wanting. His friend Drinkmore
                  would doubtless depart for the north immediately, if requested. Ben would do his
                  bidding to any extremity. There was plenty of charcoal at the forge, and straw and
                  sulphur were in abundance. In a few moments the villanous crew might all be
                  suffocated in their dungeon, as other vermin are suffocated in their dens.
               It is thus that emotions turned in one direction, impelled by an ardent
                  temperament and driven by surrounding circumstances, soon gain an ungovernable
                  fury. The soul, intent upon one point, ceases to survey the whole field of moral
                  vision, and rushes onward with irresistible rage.
               An angel intervened, or a deed of death had been done. The whole detail was
                  already wrought in Harry's mind. He was in the act of departing to put it in
                  execution, when a door opened, and Margaret entered. She saw and comprehended her
                  husband's unwonted mood.
               "Retire!" said he, with a sternness never used before. "Retire, and do not
                  interrupt me!"
               She suspected the terrible purpose he intended, and, with a pleading look, threw
                  her arms about his neck.
               "My husband," said she, "vengeance belongs to God. Let us do nothing to offend
                  him. He is now on our side and will protect us. Let us leave our cause with him,
                  and escape from this evil land. We can
                  now go harmless, and with no wrong off our souls."
               "It is no wrong thing, but a just and right thing, which
                  I mean to do," said Harry.
               "O, it is wrong—wrong to yourself," replied the wife. "You are not
                  called upon to punish wickedness, but to preserve your own goodness. Treat them
                  not according to their deserts, but according to your own generous and noble
                  heart. You have called me your angel; let me now be your good angel, and save you
                  in this hour of angry temptation. It is your loving wife, and another still dearer
                  to us, though yet unborn, who plead to you husband and
                     father!"
               The tender embrace, the pleading voice, the magic words wife,
                     husband, father, penetrated through the fierce
                  passions which had fortified Harry's heart. The current of his emotions was
                  checked. They turned to their accustomed channel of generous and loving purposes.
                  He embraced his wife, and exclaimed: "You are, indeed, my good angel. You once
                  saved me from sinking in the quicksands of dissipated folly, and now you have
                  saved me from the whirlpool of ungovernable rage. We will fly from the evil
                  intended by others, and from the temptation to revenge it."
               In a few moments horses were put to the carriage, and, in an hour from the arrival
                  of the hostile and treacherous crew, Harry and his wife, accompanied by Dr.
                  Drinkmore, and driven by Ben, were on their way to Portsmouth, in Virginia, whence
                  they would proceed by steamboat through Chesapeake Bay to Baltimore, on the way to
                  New York. The keys of the house were given to a trusty servant, with orders to let
                  no-one enter till Mr. Brooks, or some one bringing a specified token from him,
                  should come; and the necessity sity of keeping the prisoners safe till Mr. Brooks
                  should come was particularly enforced.
               The horses soon traversed the more than one hundred miles to Portsmouth, from
                  whence, leaving the carriage, the whole party, including Ben, took passage for
                  Baltimore; where Harry mailed his letter to Brooks, having first added a
                  postscript, stating the imprisonment of Buzzard and his crew, and authorizing
                  their liberation.
               When they arrived in New York, Harry took carriage and drove to his uncle's,
                  where, learning that his uncle was at his counting-room, he left his party, and
                  proceeded thither without entering the house.
               Great was the surprise of the old merchant at the entrance of his nephew. Still
                  greater grew his surprise at the account which his nephew gave of himself. He was
                  a fugitive from Carolina law, and had come to seek his uncle's protection for
                  himself and family.
               "Of what can you have been guilty?" exclaimed the uncle.
               "Not guilty at all, dear uncle," said the nephew, "except of the sin of running
                  away from slavery, which is crime only against slave-law and slaveholding
                  divinity,—both of which I repudiate."
               Harry then gave a full account of facts, and exhibited the papers taken from
                  Buzzard, including the agreement with Marshy to do the work of kidnapping at
                  halves. The merchant was astonished at the baseness of the wretch Buzzard, whom he
                  knew, and who had once, in the character of an antimason and patriot, claimed the
                  merchant's aid and hospitality. "But I never thoroughly trusted him," said Mr.
                  Boynton; "there was something in his countenance which forbade that, though I did not think him capable of
                  such villany."
               Harry remarked that the climate of Carolina was favorable to the development of
                  villany in such as have a natural inclination that way, which is the case with a
                  large proportion of the Yankees who go there. "And, indeed," continued he, "I had
                  pretty nearly determined not to trust myself there much longer before I found the
                  necessity of immediate departure."
               "Well," replied the uncle, facetiously, "I think I shall not send you back; for I
                  have not yet 'conquered my prejudices,' and do not recognize any law or divinity
                  which requires me to do it. Even Dr. Dewey's divinity does not apply here; for,
                  though he spoke of sending back his mother, son, or brother, he said nothing of
                  sending his nephew; and as for the example of St. Paul and Onesimus, I think you
                  could scarcely be trusted with a letter to Marshy requesting him to receive you as
                  a 'dearly-beloved brother.'"
               "I think," said Harry, "I should rather be his slave than his brother."
               "Well, my boy, we must not waste time. There is more to be done than you know of.
                  Your sister Angelina is now on her way to Carolina. I must follow her, or rather
                  'head her off' by the first conveyance, lest she should fall into the hands of
                  Marshy."
               Great was Harry's surprise and alarm at this information. He was told that
                  Angelina, having accepted her uncle's advice to remain in New York for a greater
                  length of time than at first proposed, had thought desirable first to return and
                  spend a week or two of preparation in Carolina. The sailing of a fine new schooner
                  belonging to her uncle, and which, in compliment to her, he had named it
                  "Angelina," and which was bound for Newbern, N. C., whence the conveyance to
                  Oakridge was easy, offered a pleasant opportunity, especially as some friends,
                  desirous to try a sea-voyage, would sail in the same vessel.
               The schooner had already been at sea one or two days, and might be expected in
                  Newbern in two or three more; and there was, therefore, no time to be lost, as it
                  was desirable to intercept the lady on the arrival of the vessel.
               Mr. Boynton had conceived a high idea of Alek's sagacity and promptitude in cases
                  of difficulty, as in the rescue of Sophia Greening, and one or two other incidents
                  within his knowledge; and, thinking it possible that he might require such aid, he
                  applied to Mr. Greening, who willingly consented to Alek's accompanying him, and
                  Alek was gratified with the confidence and the excursion. In a few hours they
                  departed, and in two days, arrived in Newbern.
               A severe storm had commenced soon after their departure, which increased to a
                  hurricane by the time they had arrived in Newbern. Trees, fences, and buildings,
                  were prostrated. Torrents of rain, driven by the fierce winds, flooded and
                  gulleyed the roads. The Neuse river, swollen by the deluge, and driven back by the
                  tide, overflowed the banks, destroying dwellings, and driving the vessels moored
                  at the wharves and in the stream high on unnavigable sands. Disaster, discomfort,
                  danger, and dismay, prevailed.
               The storm lasted several days, which in such a place as Newbern must necessarily
                  be tedious days, even without a storm. There was reason to fear great disasters
                  and shipwrecks on the coast; but news in Carolina, like everything else, travels
                  with a tardy pace, and several more days must elapse before definite knowledge would arrive. When
                  a week had passed away the schooner Angelina had not arrived, but a most
                  unpleasant visitor had come. It was Marshy. Being liberated from the cellar, and
                  recovered from his terror, he had come prepared to assert his claim upon Angelina.
                  It happened that she had, on the eve of departure from New York, sent a letter to
                  inform her brother. The letter had fallen into Marshy's hands. He had quarrelled
                  with Buzzard, to whom he attributed the disaster of his confinement and suffering
                  in the cellar, and he was now resolved to seize Angelina, and save all the profits
                  to himself.
               He had come directly to the tavern where Mr. Boynton and Alek tarried, and soon
                  the parties became aware of each other's presence and object.
               It was unpleasant to Mr. Boynton to make any advances to such a grovelling wretch;
                  but necessity required it, and he therefore sent for him to his room, and opened
                  the business at once by asking what ransom he demanded for his claim. Marshy, who
                  knew something of Mr. Boynton's wealth, and rightly presumed that he would ransom
                  his niece at any price, grasped at the highest sum he could muster courage to
                  name, which was ten thousand dollars. Mr. Boynton, to be free of the hateful
                  business, would probably have acceded to the demand; but Alek, who had stipulated
                  with his employer for liberty; interference according to his discretion, and who
                  had all the time been scanning Marshy's countenance with a curious and puzzled
                  interest, now took up the work, and replied, peremptorily, "We shall not give it.
                  You must name reasonable terms, or we shall not negotiate." The effect of this
                  prompt reply upon Marshy showed that he was not exactly sure of his ground, or at
                  least had not the resolution to maintain it. It was well that Buzzard had not come
                  with him.
               Alek reminded Marshy that, as the vessel now so long due had not arrived, perhaps
                  she might not arrive. She might have foundered in the storm, or been driven back
                  to New York, or into some port whence Angelina would return thither. He hinted,
                  also, that the Boynton family had many friends in Carolina, whom a much less sum
                  than ten thousand dollars would stimulate to vindicate their cause, in spite of
                  law; and that, for the sake of his own safety and that of his property, he had
                  better be reasonable. In short, he so worked upon the cautious and cowardly nature
                  of the avaricious knave that he at last consented to sell Harry and Angelina to
                  their uncle for two thousand dollars, and the deed and payment were made
                  accordingly.
               Mr. Boynton, having thus secured the essential object of his journey, waited with
                  patience the arrival of his vessel. Shortly she came, in gallant trim; for the
                  captain, skilful and fortunate, had gained a safe haven and outridden the storm.
                  The uncle and niece commenced their homeward journey through Washington; where
                  Alek had already gone, and was spending a few days—not idly, as we shall see by
                  and by.
               In Washington Mr. Boynton saw Mr. Brooks, who had taken possession of the estate
                  at Oakridge in behalf of his client, though uncertain whether the client was Harp
                  or his uncle. Mr. Boynton requested him to hold the estate subject to Harry's
                  control, who would soon dispose of it; and in the mean time to place on it some
                  trusty white person, who might protect and employ the slaves for wages, but not
                  coerce them.
               Mr. Boynton also saw Buzzard. The fellow looked crestfallen fallen; and would have avoided recognition; but,
                  finding that impossible, he assumed a confident brazen-facedness, and offered to
                  shake hands. Mr. Boynton only looked upon him with the steady scrutiny of one who
                  studies a rare reptile, with mingled curiosity and disgust, till the fellow
                  skulked confusedly away.
               Mr. Boynton, with his niece, visited Oakridge, where each looked with tears of
                  affectionate grief upon the graves of those so dear to them both. It is human
                  weakness that sheds the tears. Had we angel natures we should rejoice with songs
                  of triumph for those who have finished earth's pilgrimage and passed to a higher
                  sphere.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               ALEK'S investigations in Washington gave him a knowledge, general and particular,
                  concerning the people and their institutions, which proved useful as well as
                  curious. Among other particulars, he ascertained something of Marshy's previous
                  history, which helped to confirm certain suspicions relating to his identity. He
                  also learned that Marshy's wife resided much of the time in that uncelestial city,
                  preferring its society to the solitariness of the plantation. She was not reported
                  to possess much gentleness, or refinement, or other amiabilities, even according
                  to the Carolina standard; but, as an offset, she was loud and bold, and had a just
                  contempt for her husband. Marshy was, as he deserved to be, little better than her
                  slave; but it was considered that by selling himself for the price of a plantation
                  he had got his full value.
               On the other hand, Mrs. Marshy was about as badly used by her son, little Bob
                  Marshy, a snub-nosed, wide-mouthed, lop-eared boy of ten or eleven years,
                  precociously profligate, and uniting the sly, sneaking, selfish nature of his
                  father with the swinish coarseness of his mother.
               She passed much of her time in coaxing, threatening, abusing, and bribing her
                  whelp, who, as relentless as an old slavedriver in his tyranny, used all his
                  perverse powers to plague and tease
                  her. He had already the advantage in his own hands; for his mother, in her fits of
                  fondness, and to inspire him with a proper contempt for his father, represented
                  Marshy to him as a nobody, and himself as the important personage who inherited
                  the estate from his grandfather, which Marshy could control only till the heir
                  should be grown up; so that Bob even now despised "old Sneaky," as he called him,
                  as much as the lady herself. But, as Marshy was not a man of much perception
                  concerning the fitness of filial and paternal relations, nor of any delicacy of
                  feelings, he probably suffered no regrets, but was in reality that which seems
                  monstrous in imagination—a contented slave.
               Alek, having stored his memory with these and all other historical and local facts
                  concerning the paltry place bearing the august name of Washington, rejoined his
                  friends at Oakridge, whence they all soon departed, and in due season arrived in
                  New York.
               Shortly after their return, Mr. Boynton sent for Alek to his counting-room, and
                  presented him with a bank check for five hundred dollars. "Your prompt and able
                  services," said he, "have saved me much more than that sum, and whenever you
                  engage, in any enterprise requiring assistance count me as one of your
                  friends."
               "I accept the money," said Alek, "only with permission to act in your service a
                  little longer, and in a way for which the money will be necessary. My object is to
                  make Marshy restore the two thousand dollars of which he plundered you; and, if
                  you approve the object, and will allow me to proceed in my own way, without
                  implicating you, I think I can convince the pirate of the propriety of his
                  restoring the plunder."
               "If you can do that," said Mr. Boynton, "you shall have the whole sum, and my
                  thanks. My chief regret at losing it was that it went to reward a villain
                  deserving the hangman's rope. But," continued he, "I give no consent to any plan
                  which shall require you to return to Carolina, or incur any danger."
               "No," said Alek, "I shall not leave New York. There is a genie who will do the business for me without risk, and you have
                  furnished me the talisman (referring to the bank check) which will command
                  him."
               That evening Alek wrote a letter to his old friend Ike Bowler, of Wolfsden. 
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR IKE: You are wanted here for a particular occasion. Nobody
                                 but a Wolfsdenner will do, and of all Wolfsdenners you are the one.
                                 It is inexpedient to explain particulars till we meet. You will
                                 find them satisfactory. You remember that Santa Claus went to old
                                 Bang's with boots for Sue, and afterwards to Bragly's to recover
                                 them for her. That was a good thing. This is a good thing. Enclosed
                                 are fifty dollars to start with. Please to start suddenly, and be
                                 here before a week, if possible. With love to your folks, and
                                 especially my sweet daughter Amy,
                              
                                 "Yours,
                                 ALEK ARBOR."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Ike was punctual to the summons. He had never before left Wolfsden, but would have
                  gone to China if invoked by Alek. Particulars were explained, and proved
                  satisfactory, and Ike, with a new outfit, and three or four hundred dollars in his
                  pocket, left New York as suddenly as he entered it. Few knew whither he went; but
                  it was not in the direction of Wolfsden.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               ABOUT this time appeared a wonder in Washington. A stout, swaggering, odd-looking
                  individual, with long hair hanging over his shoulders, and other peculiarities
                  enough to make folks stare who have nothing else to do, as is universally the case
                  in Washington, came suddenly into that once obscure, but henceforth famous
                  city.
               The odd-looking individual announced himself as Dr. Pollywog. He professed to cure
                  all diseases by the application of cold water, and announced lectures to maintain
                  his doctrine. The idea was very novel in that place, where whiskey is the general
                  remedy. Everybody turned out to hear Dr. Pollywog. Though ignorant, as far as
                  appeared by his lectures, of everything pertaining to diseases or remedies, or any
                  other science, he managed, by his assurance, and volubility, and jocularity, and
                  incomprehensibility, to make a wonderful impression. His audience were more
                  ignorant than he. Ignorant people always take the side of ignorant doctors, and a
                  lecturer who can make them laugh is more acceptable than one who requires them to
                  think. The natives thronged to Dr. Pollywog to be cured of all manner of diseases;
                  and he soused them, and packed them in wet sheets, and made them swallow quarts of
                  hateful water, till they were glad to confess themselves lured. So Dr. Pollywog
                  got much notoriety, and many dollars.
               Besides his droll dress, his slouching hat and gait, and hanging hair, and
                  flapping ruffles, and big bright buttons, and scarlet vest, and boots outside his
                  trousers, he drove a stout, parti-colored horse, of extra spirit and speed, and a
                  light, gay gig, in which he would every day whisk through the town in a manner
                  that would have reminded the natives of "Tam o' Shanter" and his mare "Meg," only
                  the natives never read Burns—nor anything else, except their paltry
                  newspapers.
               Among other oddities, Dr. Pollywog affected a great fancy for the company of
                  vagrant boys (all white boys there are vagrant); and with them he would go on
                  fishing and shooting excursions, supplying them with abundance of candy, cakes,
                  whiskey, tobacco, cigars, and other luxuries congenial to Carolina juveniles, whom
                  their wise parents are careful to bring up in the way they choose to go. Often he
                  would take one or two of the rowdy young hopefuls and give them a rapid airing in
                  his gig. The snub-nosed, wide-mouthed, lop-eared Bob Marshy, as being one of the
                  rascaliest of the crew, was his particular favorite. Not even the mother's
                  partiality for her pig-headed, progeny exceeded that of Dr. Pollywog.
               The doctor had patients in Newbern, a few hours' ride from Washington, and would
                  often take one of the vagrant boys with him, who, on his return, would exaggerate
                  the jolly times enjoyed, setting other boys agog for like delectations. The doctor
                  invited Bob Marshy to go; and, though his mother objected to trusting him so long
                  out of her sight, yet, as Bob swore he would go, the mother yielded the point,
                  perhaps to prevent his perjuring himself, only exacting of the doctor a promise to
                  be particularly careful of her darling. After he had gone once or twice and
                  returned safely, the mother's confidence fidence was fully established, and the doctor and Bob were absent sometimes one
                  or two days at a time.
               Pollywog told Bob all about the great cities, and the lots of fun going on there;
                  the military companies, with swords and epaulets, and colors and feathers, and
                  also the music-grinders and the monkeys, and all such wonders. Bob swore he'd go
                  in for it, the first chance, and cut Sneaky and the old woman, by which filial
                  terms he designated his honored parents.
               Dr. Pollywog and Bob started for Newbern one bright morning. They did not return
                  that day. They did not return the next day. Madam felt a little fidgety. Dr.
                  Pollywog had told her when she felt fidgety to cool off in a wet sheet; but she
                  neglected his prescription, and therefore grew more fidgety. The next day they did
                  not come, and she fumed and fretted furiously. The fourth day she sent Marshy in
                  pursuit, but no Pollywog nor Bob had been seen in Newbern. They had not been
                  there. Nobody had seen them anywhere.
               There was a buzzing in the wasps' nest. The road to Newbern continues on south,
                  and travellers may pursue it and avoid Newbern; therefore the fugitives had
                  doubtless gone south. There was indeed an obscure road, which turns off and by a
                  circuitous route leads north; but nobody would be likely to take it, and therefore
                  their pursuers and advertisements were sent south.
               They went a good ways, and inquired of many persons, but got no news of Bob. How
                  could they? Bob was by this time in New York, enjoying lots of fun, and following
                  the military companies, with their swords and guns, and epaulets and feathers, and
                  the organ-grinders and monkeys, and other worthy curiosities.
               In a fortnight Mrs. Marshy was frantic with all the strong emotions of her strong
                  temperament. She did not "sulk," as her slave Lotty did, when Marshy, at his
                  wife's instigation, sold off her little boy to a trader. Lotty sulked," and Mrs.
                  Marshy tried the whip, and then Marshy himself tried it, but all did no good.
                  Lotty shammed sick, and Mrs. Marshy beat her till she was tired of it; and then,
                  when she found, as she said, that the jilt would die, she sold her to a trader at
                  half price. The trader would not have given half price for a sick nigger, but Mrs.
                  Marshy told him Lotty was getting well; and, by telling Lotty that she should be
                  sent to find her boy, which brightened up the wench wonderfully, she made the
                  trader think so; but the trader lost money by the speculation, for Lotty died on
                  his hands. This is Mrs. Marshy's own account of the affair.
               Mrs. Marshy did not sulk,—not she. Hers was the feminine fury which a she-bear
                  manifests when robbed of her whelps. Marshy himself was wonderfully stirred up.
                  Something besides parental feeling was involved; for, Bob being the heir of his
                  grandfather, by his guardianship a large property was held and enjoyed by the
                  parents, and the possession of the property was identified with the safety of the
                  boy. Other heirs, by will or otherwise, stood ready to claim possession if he
                  should be put out of the way; and perhaps this was a scheme to put him out of the
                  way. The Marshys had sufficient motive of apprehension.
               But partial relief came in shape of a letter from New York, thus:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MISTER MARSHY: You can have your boy by coming to New York and
                                 paying three thousand dollars. I could make more of him, but I only
                                 want what's right. So, if you want him, come on with the cash. It's
                                 no use to come without it, for I shan't take off a cent. We shall
                                 sail in a week, if we don't get the money. Mr. Arbor, at Greening
                                 & Russett's agricultural store, will tell you where to find us.
                                 And so no more from your humble servant to command till death,
                              
                                 "WIDEAWAKE WOLFSDENNER."
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This was not exactly the way to please Marshy and lady. He would have
                  paid with his soul, or she with her good name, supposing them to have
                  been possessed of such commodities, rather than with three thousand dollars. But
                  there was a necessity to get back the boy even at that price; for, setting aside
                  parental prejudices, several times the sum depended upon him as heir to his
                  grandfather. So, as the letter was peremptory, they raised the sum and
                  departed.
               Alek Arbor had just closed his books and locked them in the iron safe, and was
                  about closing the office, when a man and woman entered. It was Marshy, and his
                  wife, or rather Mrs. Marshy and her husband; for she entered first, bold, earnest,
                  and business-looking, while he lagged behind skulking, furtive, and
                  suspicious-looking.
               It was scarcely two months since she had seen him near her own home, and she
                  claimed acquaintance. "I have come," said she, "to get my boy; can you tell me
                  where to find Wideawake Wolfsdenner?"
               "You may find a Wideawake Wolfsdenner without going far," replied Alek; "but have
                  you brought the three thousand dollars, for without that I shall not introduce you
                  to him."
               "Surely you will not keep a mother from getting her own boy!" said Mrs. Marshy,
                  suppressing for the moment her natural spirit, and putting on the pathetic.
               "No, madam," said Alek, "I shall not interfere with your efforts. But, by the way,
                  what became of Lotty and her boy?"
               "You don't mean to throw that nigger in my teeth!" said Mrs. Marshy, laying aside
                  the pathetic, and resuming her natural spirit. "She was my nigger, and so was her
                  boy. I had a right to sell 'em."
               "Well, madam," said Alek, looking at his watch, "I have no time to argue the
                  matter. It is tea-time."
               "O, Mr. Arbor," said she, again putting on the pathetic, "do let me have my boy,
                  and I'll pay you anything you ask."
               "Produce the three thousand dollars, then," said Alek, "and I'll do my part."
               "Don't tell me about three thousand dollars!" said the virago, resuming her
                  natural spirit, and dropping the pathetic. "Do you think to swindle me out of
                  three thousand dollars? I tell you, young man," said she, marching up to him with
                  a threatening look, "that you've got to give up my boy, or," continued she,
                  abating a little her threatening look, on seeing that Alek did not quail before
                  it, "or, if there's law in the United States, I'll have it!"
               Alek pulled a bell, and a boy answered the summons. "Madam and sir," said he,
                  addressing his company, "you may leave the office immediately, or I shall send for
                  a police-officer to take charge of you."
               "O, Mr. Arbor," exclaimed she, relapsing to the pathetic, 'don't do so,—don't
                  treat a lady so! Come, now, say the best you will do. You know Mr. Marshy asked you only two thousand dollars for the
                  Boyntons."
               "Yes, he asked ten thousand dollars, and would have got it if you had been there
                  to back him. But the case is different. He had not got the game quite in his
                  hands, and was afraid of losing the whole. We have the game in our hands, and are
                  sure of the whole; and, besides, you began the battle, and have no right to
                  complain that we fight harder than you expected."
               "But you mean to go according to law, I suppose," said Marshy, for the first time
                  interposing a word.
               "I have not decided upon that, sir," said Alek, fixing his eye full upon him. "I
                  shall see how this matter ends before I decide upon the next business, sir. Do you
                  know anything of Wolfsden, sir?—and of Bragly, the grocer, sir,— and of Simon
                  Bragly, sir? We shall see about law, as soon as we get through the present
                  business,—or before, unless it ends soon, sir."
               Marshy quailed, and said no more; but ever and anon he stole a glance at Alek, as
                  at a wizard beneath whose power resistance was vain.
               The lady could not comprehend it, but, knowing her husband's character, and that
                  he had before been in New York, she suspected that some former villany of his was
                  detected, and that new dangers, and perhaps new demands, awaited them.
               "Dear Mr. Arbor," said she, with a double proportion of the pathetic, "do let us
                  off as easy as you can; do let me see my boy, and know that all is right, and you
                  shall have the money."
               "Madam," replied Alek, "you shall have sufficient security that I shall fulfil my
                  engagements. Mr. Marshy knows very well that the family of Deacon Arbor, whose son
                  I am, always fulfil their engagements; besides, I will call a gentleman, well
                  known to you as a man of honor, who will take charge of the money, and return it
                  to you unless the boy be forthcoming."
               The Marshys assented, and Alek bade the boy run for Mr. Harry Boynton. They
                  started at the name. They would rather not have faced their former neighbor, under
                  present circumstances; but there was no help. Harry came and looked upon the
                  crestfallen couple, but made no remark. Alek explained the business, and Harry
                  consented to act as banker. Little as the Marshys could comprehend the nature or
                  motive of honor, they knew it to be an indisputable quality of the Boyntons; and
                  the money was deposited without much more delay, for the harassed and jaded couple
                  had worn out much of their energy, and power of resistance. All the faculties sink
                  under long-continued excitement, and even avarice loosens its grasp when nature is
                  exhausted. They were anxious to have the business ended, and to be away from the
                  city, where the lady had vague fears of further trouble and expense; and whence
                  Marshy, now that he knew himself known, had good reason to wish to escape as
                  noiselessly as possible.
               Alek wrote a note, and sent it off by the boy. He then took from a drawer a
                  legal-looking paper, tied withered tape, and addressed Marshy thus: "Sir, your son
                  will soon be here, and your wife will be free to depart with him. You will also be
                  free to go when you have put your proper name to this document, which Mr.
                  Grappler, a legal friend of mine, has prepared for your signature. He has also
                  drawn up another document to which your
                  attention will be emphatically called, if you decline this. You will infer from
                  the paper that Bragly senior, of Wolfsden, is dead. This document," continued he,
                  opening it and occasionally quoting from it, "this document, as you see, is
                  already sealed, and, when properly signed and witnessed, transfers all the 'right,
                  title, and interest,' which Simon Bragly, son and heir of the 'late Solomon
                  Bragly, of Wolfsden, has in the property of which said Bragly was seized and
                  possessed at the time of his death,' to 'Colonel Jacob Bowler, of Wolfsden,
                  aforesaid, in trust,' for the support and benefit of Susan Barker and her son
                  'Jotham Barker, widow and son of the late Benjamin Barker, of said Wolfsden,
                  blacksmith,' and to their 'use and behoof forever.'
               "My motive," continued Alek, "for requiring this transfer, is that the Bragly here
                  mentioned was the means of turning Barker the blacksmith into a sot, and depriving
                  his family of their proper protection and support; and, therefore, his property
                  should go to recompense the injury. I think I have said enough to bring you to
                  that opinion; if not, I have a stronger argument, or, at least, one of more
                  personal application."
               Marshy guessed well enough the kind of argument which Alek held in reserve. Since
                  the mention of Mr. Grappler, and the additional document drawn up for him in case
                  of his demurring at this, he felt himself, to express it gently, in a delicate
                  position.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               MARSHY'S delicate position may be briefly explained. Simon Bragly, left his
                  paternal home in Wolfsden about twenty years previously, being then of age. He
                  went to seek his fortune, and supposed himself well qualified to make his way in
                  the world; for he had learned all his father's maxims of low cunning, and had no
                  scruples of honesty to interfere with whatever chance of gain might fall in his
                  way. He spent a year or two in Saco, then a year or two in Boston, and then a year
                  or two in New York. In each city he gained practice and experience in his chosen
                  line of life, so that, at the end of six years of advanced pupilage and practice,
                  he self-complacently considered himself a finished villain.
               He did himself no more than justice, so far as the solid qualities of such a
                  character go; but he was somewhat deficient in the tact and adroitness which
                  characterize the most accomplished professors of his school. His natural gifts
                  were not equal to the greatest attainments in any line. Besides his lack of
                  capacity, there was some deficiency in that earnest perseverance and singleness of
                  purpose which is necessary to great results; for he had devoted himself
                  occasionally to debauchery, which necessarily impeded his race for preëminence in
                  the sublimer mysteries of knavery.
               
               Having, however, tested his abilities and good fortune, by the success of some
                  small villanies, he felt encouraged to venture on a larger enterprise. He forged
                  his employer's name to a draft of considerable amount, and sent another
                  person,—whether innocent or confederate is not known,—to present it for payment,
                  with directions to bring the money to a certain place. Simon did not await his
                  emissary that certain place, but posted himself in sight of the bank to judge of
                  his success. Omens were not auspicious. The emissary tarried too long. A boy came
                  out of the bank, and ran to a police-station. A police-officer came to the bank.
                  When the emissary reäppeared, the police-officer was also in sight. The emissary
                  hastened to the place of rendezvous, and the police-officer followed and entered
                  with him. Simon understood the manœuvre, and congratulated himself that, though he
                  had not got the money, he had outwitted the officer.
               Henceforth he wisely judged that New York was not his proper sphere. He had
                  already abstracted a little sum from his employer, and put it with the other
                  avails of his professional industry; and with this means he immediately absconded,
                  and, though advertised, was not overtaken. He found his way to North Carolina,
                  which he judiciously judged to be his proper sphere.
               It is not worth while to track his crooked trail very closely. To evade pursuit,
                  he changed his name to Marshy, and, after various fortune, sold himself to Tim
                  Bateman's daughter of smutched reputation, for the consideration of a plantation.
                  It was worse than a wooden-nutmeg speculation, for both parties got the worst
                  bargains possible.
               When Alek first saw Marshy at Newbern, he was struck with something in his face at
                  once familiar and disagreeable. "If Bragly had a brother," thought Alek, "this
                  must be he; or, can it be his son? He looks too old for that, but his reputed
                  habits when last heard from, and the Carolina climate, may have added to his
                  age."
               The more Alek studied his features, and expression, and voice, the more strongly
                  he was impressed with the probability of the supposition. His inquiries at
                  Washington concerning Marshy's previous history, of which nobody knew any. thing,
                  confirmed his belief; for concealment is seldom sought but to escape infamy. He
                  told Ike Bowler what he thought; and when Ike (whom the reader has recognized as
                  Dr. Pollywog) visited Washington and saw Marsh, he said there could be no
                  mistake,—Marshy must be a Bragly, for nature would never fashion two families on
                  such a shabby model. Alek, therefore, upon consulting Squire Grappler, who
                  happened to know young Bragly and his history when in New York, had the papers
                  referred to made out in preparation for his appearance; for it was judged that,
                  upon the whole, the ends of justice would be better subserved by inducing the
                  rogue to part with his property for the benefit of his father's victims, than by
                  his arrest and imprisonment.
               We have seen that when Alek in effect charged upon Marshy his identity with
                  Bragly, he showed no surprise. He saw himself detected, and did not venture on
                  denial. He had supposed that after the lapse of so many years he should not be
                  recognized in New York. His wish now was to retreat with as little loss as
                  possible; for his arrest and conviction as a forger would not only hurt his
                  feelings, but, what was worse, would endanger his fine prospects as planter and
                  guardian of Bob's patrimony, and perhaps also as future legislator,
                  representative, judge, governor, or president,—for all which offices he thought his talents and
                  qualifications to be of the kind most in request.
               Therefore, when Marshy understood that by resigning his own patrimony for the
                  benefit of his father's victims he might be allowed to escape the present dreaded
                  danger, he accepted the compromise as a lucky chance. He acknowledged himself to
                  be the identical Bragly junior; and went with Alek and Harry before Squire
                  Grappler, who at once recognized him, and by whose legal aid the deed of transfer
                  was duly authenticated. 
               When they returned to the office, Dr. Pollywog had already brought Bob, who was
                  very dirty, and very sulky, and received his mother's caresses, coaxings, and
                  promises, with a very ill grace. He "didn't want none of their doggin' arter him,"
                  and wished his "mother and Old Sneaky" (meaning his honored father) to—a place
                  unnecessary to mention. He swore he would stay in New York "where there was
                  something of some 'count,—music-grinders, military soldiers, and monkeys."
               The reader, though regretting the perjury, will be gratified to know that he was
                  finally persuaded to go back with his mother and "Old Sneaky;" and that they still
                  continue very creditably to fill their place in the upper circles of society in
                  Washington, North Carolina.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               ALEK wished to return to Mr. Boynton the two thousand five hundred dollars,
                  plundered by Marshy and borrowed by himself, but the generous merchant would
                  accept no part of it. After consultation with all parties, it was finally
                  determined to apply the whole three thousand dollars taken from Marshy for the
                  benefit of the slaves at Oakridge, whom Harry had determined to emancipate, and to
                  instruct in the use and advantages of freedom. Harry, therefore (accompanied by
                  Ike), returned to Oakridge; and, after consulting the wishes and capabilities of
                  the slaves, brought most of them to New York, where, being scattered in different
                  families and employments, they soon acquired ideas and habits of self-dependent
                  industry and economy. Those who remained in Carolina, being superannuated, or
                  otherwise incapacitated for freedom, were allowed a small pension for their
                  support.
               Ben Blacksmith found employment in an iron foundery connected with Messrs.
                  Greening & Russet's establishment, where his strength and dexterity commanded
                  high wages, so that he soon saved a considerable sum; and then, to the surprise of
                  his employers, asked for his discharge. He made no explanations, but, having
                  settled his small affairs, silently
                  disappeared. He was not heard from afterward till the account of the capture of
                  the brig "Creole" electrified the nation, exciting in the friends of freedom the
                  highest admiration, and in the lovers of slavery the fiercest indignation.
               How came Ben Blacksmith again in slavery, and compelled to achieve his freedom by
                  desperate strife against armed kidnappers and keepers? He returned voluntarily to
                  the land of slavery, but with no motive of again submitting to its boasted
                  institutions. 
               He returned to the region of slavery from the same motive which led Orpheus to
                  brave the horrors of the infernal regions; which urged Menelaus to ten years of
                  strife and danger on the plains of Troy; which brought Samson to the Philistine's
                  house of bondage; which impelled Don Quixote to encounter dreadful dangers; which
                  betrayed Antony to a bloody death.
               It was love! Of life's voyage, the tempting siren, the hidden rock; the faithless
                  quicksand, the wrecking hurricane, the fatal whirlpool.
               Of life's battle, the ambushed foe, the unsuspected mine, the treacherous ally,
                  the fatal destiny, the overwhelming enemy, the Waterloo defeat.
               Of life's economy, the wild extravagance, the sanguine folly, the misplaced trust,
                  the desperate venture, the reckless loss, the inevitable bankruptcy.
               Of life's pilgrimage, the enchanted ground, the slough of despond, the vanity
                  fair, the doubting castle, the dire Apollyon, the giant Despair, the city of
                  destruction.
               Ben Blacksmith went back to the south that he might rescue his dark Virginia bride
                  from slavery. While in concealment awaiting his opportunity, he was betrayed by a
                  false friend, surrounded by an armed force, and loaded with fetters. He was sold,
                  with others of his acquaintance, including the wife whom he had come to rescue, to
                  a slave-trader to be carried to the Louisiana sugar plantations, where the avowed
                  policy is to work men and women, and boys and girls, to death within six years,
                  and to replenish their gangs by new purchases.
               How the slave-trader, after completing his purchases, shipped his freight of human
                  beings for New Orleans on board the brig "Creole," fastening them with fetters and
                  under hatches; how, on the voyage, Ben Blacksmith and Madison Washington, with
                  other heroes whose liberty-loving devotion redeems the land of slavery from the
                  reproach of utter degeneracy, burst from their confinement, and inflicted just
                  vengeance on their truculent keepers and kidnappers, but spared those who
                  submitted, and then, with a prudence and skill unsurpassed in heroic history,
                  navigated the vessel to a British port, and there maintained their own and their
                  companions' just independence, is told by the "protest" of the owners of the
                  vessel in New Orleans, who, though compelled to record the glorious deed, worthy
                  the tallest monument on American soil, yet suppressed much that adds to the honor
                  of the victors.
               They did not tell of the wanton cruelty and insult which wound up to desperate
                  valor the unarmed slaves, till, braving every disadvantage, they rushed upon their
                  armed guards, and bore them headlong to the deck, or over the bulwarks.
               Nor did they tell how, in the plenitude of their irresponsible tyranny, they
                  tortured the husband by cutting with the merciless whip the quivering flesh of his wife—his wife dearer to his heart
                  than its own life-blood.
               And how, when her little child besought the cruel wretch "not to whip mamma," he
                  spurned the beseeching babe with his boot, and sent it headlong and stunned
                  against the wall of their floating dungeon.
               Then the electric spark darted forth from the overcharged brain of the husband and
                  father, and strung his nerves to deeds of matchless valor. In vengeance the
                  volcano found vent, or the brain would have burst with accumulated torture.
               With superhuman strength he wrenched the irons that bound his wrists, and dealt
                  the wretch a blow that needed no repeating. It was the crisis of fate. Then the
                  outbursting spirit of the hero inspired congenial spirits around. Madison
                  Washington, a man of milder mood and less feared by the captors, had just been
                  unfettered that he might perform some laborious service for his masters, and he
                  now sprung to the side of Ben, and shouted "Liberty!"
               "Now for liberty, boys!" they shouted both, and sprang through the hatchway upon
                  the deck. Their first onset decided the fate of the day. They wrenched the muskets
                  from the vainly-struggling sentinels, and shouted to their companions, now fast
                  emerging from the unguarded hold, and in a few moments the victory was won.
               With what consummate skill the fruits of victory were secured; with what vigilance
                  they guarded against treachery and surprise, and compelled their tyrants to become
                  their servants, and to pilot them to a haven of safety, in spite of their wish to
                  betray them; with what forgiving mercy they abstained from all retaliation for
                  cruelties received; with what heaven-trusting faith they threw the deadly arms
                  overboard, relying upon British justice and the God of the oppressed to protect
                  them,—all this may be gathered from the story even as told by their enemies in the
                  to "protest" of the owners; and if such was their defamers' story, in what
                  glorious words might their eulogist record their deeds!
               What stirred the blood of these submissive and all-enduring blacks to such deeds
                  of matchless valor? It was the controlling energy of the master spirit Ben,
                  communicating itself like the electric current to the sympathizing hearts about
                  him. What was the power that strung his own spirit to that pitch of frenzied
                  valor—to that desperate encounter with adverse odds, where prudence would have
                  counted success impossible?
               It was that power which bore Ulysses through a thousand dangers again to his
                  long-deserted Ithaca, and his long-widowed Penelope; which sustained Jacob in his
                  twice seven years' service to the faithless Laban; which inspired the gentle
                  spirit of Petrarch in strains of deathless song, and prompted the heroic Tell to
                  deeds of deathless fame.
               It was love,—which dares all things for its devoted object, and snatches victory
                  even from opposing Fate.
               It was love,—of life's battle the invincible champion, the heaven-sent aid of
                  chariots and horses of fire, the sacred banner, the palladium of power, the
                  inspiring watch -word, the tocsin of victory.
               Of life's economy, the cheap luxury, the elevating dignity, the gain
                  counterbalancing all losses, the insurance covering all risks, the guarantee of
                  ultimate success.
               Of life's voyage, the unerring compass, the leading star, the hopeful anchor, the protecting flag, the
                  directing helm, the welcome port.
               Of life's journey, the flowery path, the pleasant companion, the refreshing
                  fountain, the cheerful sunshine, the sweet return.
               Of life's pilgrimage, the interpreter's house, the greatheart guide, the
                  delectable mountains, the embosomed roll, the key of promise, the helping angel,
                  the celestial city.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               
                  A VISION.
                  LET the heart be pure, and the faith be clear, and the soul be strong to pierce
                     the bounds of earthly knowledge, and learn the wonders of the spirit world. We
                     are on its borders. We are in its midst. The soul has eyes to see a million
                     surrounding, sympathizing, kindred souls. But the film of mortality curtains
                     the spiritual vision, and we grope in spiritual darkness, though surrounded by
                     spiritual light.
                  So the man born blind walked the streets of Jerusalem, but saw not its holy
                     temple, nor its glorious sunlight, nor the faces of his brethren; for his eyes,
                     though formed to see, were darkened by a film, and he saw not the wonderful and
                     pleasant things of the world wherein he walked. So the film of mortality shuts
                     our spiritual eyes from the inward world wherein we walk, and we see not its
                     spiritual glories, nor our spirit companions.
                  But when the Lord of light appeared and touched the blind man's eyes, though
                     all things else remained as before, he was ushered into a new world, of glories
                     inconceivable. So the Lord of light has power to open the spiritual eyes of
                     mortals. This grace he has shown to some, but not to all. Of the many blind men of Judea, but few
                     were healed.
                  O, deep, unfathomable mysteries of our being! Why do men say that the age of
                     miracles is past? Each man is a miracle. Each new discovery of the laws and
                     powers of matter is a revelation. God still speaks to man in the thunder's
                     crash, and the ocean's roar, and the whispering breeze, as once in the Eden
                     garden-walk.
                  In visions of the night God's angels have talked with men; or on the holy
                     mountain, or on the desert plain, or in the wilderness, or in the crowded
                     streets.
                  
                  Frances was ever, while amongst us, but as a visitant from some brighter
                     sphere. Native grace and loveliness surrounded her as with a more ethereal
                     atmosphere. Always pleased and cheerful, she threw the sunlight of her own
                     happy disposition into every place where she entered, and her presence was
                     always an assurance of pleasantness and peace. Where she came, even the rude
                     affected gentleness, the overbearing became affable, and the selfish learned to
                     be generous. Human nature, however degraded, never becomes blind to the
                     attractions of unaffected goodness. Happy Frances! the favorite companion of
                     angels, even while in mortal life. Happy spirits! who now, with the angel
                     Frances, rejoice in immortality.
                  There seemed no failure of Fanny's health or strength;—her eye was bright, her
                     step was free, her voice was clear, her cheeks lost not their lovely glow. But
                     she talked to her mother of heaven, as a home where she soon should go; and
                     spoke cheerfully and happily, as thought were not a matter of regret, nor even
                     of solemn thought. It had become familiar to her mind, as if it were but a
                     removal to a new and better tenement, where the same loving friends would still
                     be about her, or would soon follow.
                  There was a heart which throbbed with anguish then, when her true words told of
                     its coming bereavement. It throbs with remembered anguish now, though so many
                     years have passed. But, away with selfish regrets! She said that she would
                     still be about us, and love us; and it is so. Soon the veil will be
                     removed.
               
               
                  THE VISION, AS TOLD BY HERSELF.
                  It was a moonlit night, and Frances had retired to bed alone. The door which
                     opened into her mother's room was shut, but not fastened. She lay quietly,
                     thinking only of common affairs, when, without the slightest feeling of alarm,
                     she became conscious of the presence of other persons. There were three of
                     them, and all unknown to her. One was an elderly lady, looking much like her
                     mother, but more slender, and dressed in Quaker fashion. Another appeared as
                     her daughter, and looked much like Frances herself, but dressed like the
                     mother. The third was an elderly man, looking benevolent and happy, but rather
                     staid and precise.
                  The little girl approached the bedside, followed by the mother. Their faces
                     were radiant with goodness and love. "Will you go with us a little while, and
                     see the new home?" said the daughter.
                  The invitation was so gentle and winning, that Frances thought not of refusing,
                     but gave her hand in confidence. Instantly her relations to the things about
                     her were changed. She was no longer confined to her bed, nor to the room, nor
                     even to her bodily form. Neither the curtains, nor walls, nor any of the surrounding world of matter,
                     obstructed her sight or her movements. A vast and delightful plain of waving
                     groves and winding streams and charming flowers opened before her. Thousands of
                     radiant beings, with looks of love and social joy, thronged the delightful
                     region, and seemed to expect and welcome her approach. She felt the attraction
                     of mutual sympathy, and hastened to join them. To one, even more than to the
                     others, her soul was linked in love.
                  "I have long been your guardian angel," said the bright being; "and now I will
                     show you the delights and the duties of immortality. Here we are free from
                     earthly hindrances and infirmities; and here duty is ever a delight, because
                     our minds are moulded in the love of duty. The world of infinite progression is
                     before us, and every step is a new joy, higher and better than mortals know.
                     The march of improvement has no limit, and its resources of delight are
                     inexhaustible. Millions of happy spirits have progressed for millions of ages
                     in these paths of peace, and are ever filled with new wonder as worlds of new
                     and varied happiness are unfolded before them. How impossible is it that
                     mortals should comprehend the idea of infinity! Not even seraphs can compass
                     the thought.
                  "Yet it is not that the soul travels far to its heaven. It is only the
                     awakening of new powers; for the more the soul is developed, the more it is
                     capable of appreciating and enjoying. Creation has no limits, either in extent
                     or variety, when the powers have become expanded and refined to survey it. But
                     mortals are like the beasts which grovel upon the earth, and know nothing but
                     its grossest gifts. The dull ox grazes in the meadow, or basks in the sunshine;
                     but feels not the beauty and fragrance of the flowery green, and has no ear for
                     the warbling melody of the grove, and no eye or thought to pierce the wonders
                     of the starry heavens. Of all that Heaven bestows, only the herbage and the
                     warmth of the sun is within the scope of his capacities. Mankind have faculties
                     a little more expanded and refined to embrace the things about them, yet theirs
                     is but a slight advance toward the high progression of spirits.
                  Creation has no limits. These spiritual bodies which we have, and this
                     wonderful landscape which surrounds us, though invisible to mortal eyes, is
                     still as much a part of creation as the grosser substance of earth. In this
                     wonderful creation you also continually move, though your eyes are not open to
                     behold it. Unimaginable beauties and angel companions surround you; and they
                     often influence your minds, and communicate thoughts of which you know not the
                     source. But it is only to those who bring themselves near to the spirit-sphere
                     that we have power to communicate.
                  "Not all who enter this world are capable of enjoying its happiness. They who
                     have nourished the passions of avarice, of envy, of hatred, or of low
                     sensuality, are unfitted for heavenly joys. What are delights to the good are
                     plagues to the, evil; and the tastes which they have formed find no food. See,
                     afar off, at the foot of that unsightly mountain, an unhappy group. Their faces
                     show their discontent. Even now they are in contention. Vulgar taste
                     ungratified, or, if gratified, unenjoyed; sour disdain, gnawing envy,
                     soul-racking hate; ignorance, which scorns truth; jealousy, which repels
                     confidence; cruelty, which feels no sympathy,—these are the kindred cankers of
                     earthly life: they are the devils, self-begotten, who guard the infernal gates;
                     for these gates are only perverted wills. They herd together, though not in
                        peace. Theirs is the affinity of
                     baseness, and they are repelled by inward antipathy from the good.
                  "Let us partake of these surrounding fruits. You have tasted nothing on earth
                     so delicious. But their excellence is, that they nourish not only our spiritual
                     bodies, but also our souls. Observe the fragrance, of these flowers, and their
                     variety, each with its own delightful perfume. How refreshing are these
                     fountains!— how grateful the breezes!
                  "Now, let us ascend the empyrean heights; for, in whatever direction we move,
                     we equally ascend; or, rather, the distinctions of height and depth, in the
                     earthly sense, do not prevail here, but only in a moral sense. The
                     highest-ascended angels stand by our side, or dart with us through space; their
                     loftiness of ascent is within them, and they gladly help us to rise toward
                     their eminence.
                  "Yonder bright being is my guardian angel, as I am yours. See! he kindly
                     proffers to accompany us, and invites us to a circuit among the infinite
                     heavens. Together, gently or swiftly, with one mind they fly."
                  The worlds of wonders opened to Frances' sight were inconceivable; as if the
                     vast concave sky were filled with floating, sparkling bubbles, and each bubble
                     magnified into a world of surpassing size and beauty, each filled with its own
                     peculiar wonders and delights, yet all uniting in one grand whole, through
                     which the happy dwellers might pass at will. Such seemed the opening panorama
                     of heaven.
                  "Yet these," said the guide, "are but the beginning of scenes of which there is
                     no end. The archangels of uncounted ages know that these wonders are without
                     limit. They are the works of an infinite God; and he has made them also
                     infinite, even as he has formed us for infinity."
                  "But, where is the heaven of God's throne? and where is Christ the beloved
                     Son?" asked Frances of the superior spirit.
                  The angel smiled sweetly, and laid his hand upon his breast. Heaven and Christ
                     were there.
                  "Think you," said he "that God's throne is afar off, or that his kingdom is
                     confined to place? Through all the incomprehensible vastness of infinity there
                     is no place where his glories dwell more than in your own heart, nor any other
                     place where you could approach and dwell among them. The loftiest seraphs who
                     stand in his presence are but those whose faculties are most nobly improved,
                     and who thus come into nearer unity with his will. They then dwell in the
                     immediate brightness of his glory; for his glories are unfolded within them.
                     Learn, then, and understand what Christ told you long before, that 'God's
                     kingdom is within you,' and cease to form ideas of a local heaven,—as though He
                     who is omnipresent could be less in one place than in another. His highest and
                     happiest angels are ever drawing nearer to him, and more clearly beholding his
                     glories; because each, within his own heart, explores and ascends, and receives
                     the inward light. Yet, though they ever, advance in wisdom, and goodness, and
                     happiness, the way of progression is still infinite.
                  "To you, as to us, it is given, to partake these heavenly fruits around us.
                     Often have you unknowingly been refreshed by them. The fragrance of heavenly is
                     wafting good desires, hopes, and resolutions, has revived you. Heavenly streams
                     of confidence, resignation, faith, forgiveness, charity, and love, have
                     refreshed and strengthened you. When you have been startled by new triumphs of
                     your own thoughts, and when spiritual light has unexpectedly filled your mind,
                     it was then that you had unconsciously been refreshed by heavenly enly fountains, and partaken of
                     spiritual food; and when you now return to your earthly sphere, where your
                     pilgrimage will be brief, your soul will be strengthened by what you have seen
                     and tasted with us.
                  "Behold a sign by which you may know that you have seen realities, and talked
                     with angels."
                  Frances looked, and saw her brother Alek, seated at a rude table, in a rustic
                     and roughly-furnished room, and surrounded by wild and unwonted scenery. One
                     other person, of refined and intellectual appearance, accompanied him; and
                     these two were attended by strange-looking persons, of various complexions, and
                     savage though submissive aspect. Before him lay a parcel of letters just
                     written, one of which was directed to herself, informing her that he was then
                     in South America, whither he had gone suddenly, in company with a son of one of
                     his employers, on business which would require extensive journeys, and consume
                     much time.
                  Frances clearly saw and studied her brother's countenance, and admired his air
                     of sagacious resolution and deliberate self-confidence. But, while she looked,
                     she felt herself rapidly receding from him; and in a moment the vision had
                     passed away, and she found herself in her own room, and alone.
                  
                  The strong assurance expressed by Frances that she had indeed conversed with
                     spirits made a deep impression upon her parents, and others who shared her
                     confidence. In a few weeks a fall confirmation of the spirit-intelligence was
                     received in a letter from Alek. He was indeed in South America,—having been
                     sent by his enterprising employers, in company with Mr. Sylvester Russet, son
                     of the junior partner of the firm, and, like his father, strongly devoted to
                     the science of agricultural husbandry. And here I cannot but express my regret
                     that so few young men of talent and energy like his are led to engage in a
                     field of enterprise so healthful and remunerative, and giving scope for the
                     largest activity of body and mind.
                  Young Mr. Russet, having received all the advantages of a scientific training
                     in the best schools, devoting himself especially to those departments of
                     natural science pertaining to agriculture as a profession, formed a plan of
                     exploring different regions of South America, to transplant to the soil of New
                     York such of its productions as might appear worthy of the experiment. His
                     father, though he approved the plain, would not consent to his son's attempting
                     it except on condition that Alek should accompany him; for Alek's good conduct
                     and good fortune had by this time gained him a reputation for energy and
                     sagacity equal to any emergency: and it was in this way that he was introduced
                     to a new field of adventure, well adapted to his nature, and favored with the
                     advantage of cultivated and scientific companionship.
                  It belongs not to this history to pursue the adventures of these utilitarian
                     travellers; but it may be said, in passing, that to their active and successful
                     researches and selections the magnificent gardens and plantations about New
                     York owe some of their choicest embellishments. Their stay was prolonged to
                     nearly three years, during which they visited most of the semi-civilized
                     countries of the southern continent, examined their productions and resources,
                     and rendered substantial services to their employers in a commercial view,
                     besides adding much curious knowledge to the public stock.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XL.
               THE full story of a single life would fill many volumes. How briefly, then, must
                  we note events who attempt the history of a whole town in a single book! Matters
                  which were a month's wonder in Wolfsden must be compressed in a single line; and,
                  like the school-girl's genealogical sampler, one little page must suffice for all
                  that is important in many lives, their births, marriages, and deaths, with moral
                  reflections, rejoicings, and regrets,—an epitaph, a tree, and a tomb.
               The Wolfsden Philharmonic Society, after snapping many strings, and exploding much
                  wind, and setting many teeth on edge,—and many tempers, too,—at length composed
                  all its differences by the expulsion or voluntary withdrawal of all its members,
                  who colonized into new harmonical associations, borrowing names from Handel,
                  Rayon, Mozart, and Beethoven, but manufacturing music independent of all masters.
                  Squire Noseby's oft-resounding hall is now silent as the cave of Fingal. Squire
                  Noseby is silent, too. Dropsy did it. Brandy began it. Snuff and tobacco aided it.
                  Squire Noseby has blown his last-twang.
               Squire Chinby still flourishes. We cannot pause now; but we must again visit
                  Chinby, if but for his blue-eyed daughters, as bright and cerulean as ever.
               Time's wheel revolves, and brings many changes; but the pivot stands still and
                  unchangeable. Lucinda Boreman is still the same sweet slender siren as in other
                  days,—her curls still captivating, and her everlasting net-work purse, like
                  Penelope's web, still perplexing her lovers. But Lucinda has seen the sorrow which
                  comes nearest a faithful daughter's heart, the loss of her mother. Her smile is
                  sadder than before, but not the less sweet.
               The good old parson has received an added dignity. Before his bereavement it would
                  have been a glory and a triumph. Even now it adds a solemn grandeur to his
                  presence. He is made a doctor of divinity. No parson better deserves a doctor of
                  divinity than Wolfsden.
               Ax is a faithful servant—faithful to his patron and to himself. He has grown to be
                  a likely lad of sixteen, and tall as some boys at twenty. He perseveres in his
                  resolution to be a schoolmaster, and the very resolution has already given him the
                  air of one. Besides, he has really gained much knowledge. He has made the most of
                  district school advantages, and has devoted all leisure hours and holidays to
                  study. Lucinda has been his teacher; that is, she has heard him recite lessons,
                  spell, abbreviate, and parse, and has taught him to guess riddles and make
                  acrostics. She has set copies for him, and with her pretty fingers showed him how
                  to hold the pen. She sometimes bends over the slate to show him the sums, and her
                  captivating curls wave near his cheek,—possibly they may once or twice have
                  brushed against his budding whiskers. Ax loves to write and cipher—who would
                  not?
               The good old parson, who has thus given a home to the fatherless in his own house, forgets not the widow.
                  He comes often to Colonel Bowler's to see poor Susan. But Susan is no longer
                     poor, in any sense. Her comfortable residence, since Bang's death,
                  has much improved her appearance, and she is plump, cheerful, and good-looking.
                  Her accession to Bragly's property (for she has the benefit of it while Ax is a
                  minor, and he says she shall always have it) has made her quite wealthy.
                  Whisperers say that the parson's attentions to the widow have been more regular
                  and particular since her good fortune than before. The insinuation is not
                  becoming, if intended to reflect upon the good minister's motives, as though they
                  could be mercenary. Charity thinketh no evil,—especially of a doctor of
                  divinity.
               Major Murray and his wife miss Margaret much. As monotonous time moves slowly on,
                  they miss her more and more. They are in the uncomfortable position of people who
                  have nothing to plague them. The old lady cooks, and pampers the hired man and the
                  cat, but cannot find half enough employment in that way. She has knit a trunk full
                  of stockings; but there is nobody to wear them out, and no darning to be done. If
                  sometimes a moth makes a hole, she is thankful for the favor, and makes the most
                  of it; but such good luck comes seldom, for she beats and brushes her hoarded
                  stores every week, which happily passes away some supernumerary hours. She sweeps
                  her house twice a day. Once, in her palmy days, she could have made a glorious
                  dust; but now nothing comes of it. She taught the major long ago to clean his
                  shoes as he entered the house; and now, though he seldom goes in the dirt, he is
                  tediously scrupulous, and makes no tracks to give occasion for mop or broom. Poor
                  madam is puzzled what to do; yet, as the mill-stone still revolves though the corn
                  is all ground, so the busy lady still goes round, and tries to make a comfortable
                  clatter.
               Colonel Bowler still reports himself as fit for service. The spirit of Seventy-six
                  sustains him. He says the campaign is a pretty long one, but he trusts that it
                  will end honorably, and that he shall be promoted into the great army above, where
                  every soldier is greater than conqueror or king. The "Adjutant" is still the
                  colonel's favorite "staff," and by this time a pretty stout one. The boy loves his
                  grand'ther more than all other playmates,—so permanent are the affections which
                  are fixed and fostered in childhood.
               Amy is as sweet as ever—sweeter, for there is more of her, and she is all
                  sweetness. She has grown up from a pretty child to a more than pretty maiden, but
                  still is as artless and unpretending as in her bread-and-butter days—the same
                  generous, impulsive heart, the same sincere, overflowing affections. The
                  instinctive love of truth and goodness, and the antipathy to wrong; the care and
                  regard for others' welfare, fearless for herself; the nice sense of propriety
                  which nature gives to those whom she chooses to be known as ladies, wherever they
                  may be found; all the loveliness of childhood, with the added dignity and worth of
                  womanhood—these were, these still are thy qualities, dear sister mine. From
                  infancy till now, thy life has been a continual lesson of goodness, and thy
                  presence a reward.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLI.
               IN reverent silence let us approach the chamber where the soul prepares to change
                  its earthly garment for the robe of immortality.
               Pale as the pillow which supports her feeble form, mournfully beautiful as the
                  white rose which even now withers by her side, with failing breath and fluttering
                  pulse, the young Frances awaits her summons to the spirit sphere.
               A hectic glow at intervals passes over her cheek, and her eyes dilate with unusual
                  brightness. It is as if the curtain were lifted, and the soul's vision looked
                  beyond mortal things, while a rosy gleam of immortality illumines her face. But
                  the hectic glow passes away, and the eyes are closed. Not yet is the spirit
                  victory won.
               Sometimes she has strength to speak a little. When her friend knelt at her
                  bedside, and took her thin, transparent hand, and pressed it to his lips, she
                  faintly smiled, and said, "It is but dust,—soon I shall have a form better worth
                  loving."
               When a companion asked her if she suffered much, she cheerfully answered: "No; my
                  body has pain, but no more than I can easily bear; and my soul has no pain, but is
                  filled with peace and joy. How good was the Saviour, to teach us that these little
                  pains are but the birth to a better life, and to show us how to bear them!"
               It was wonderful to observe how constantly she considered the soul as distinct and
                  separate from the body, and as the only essential interest. In speaking of
                  herself, she did not include the idea of her outward being. "I seem," said she,
                  "to perceive my gradual separation from the body, and often to watch the progress
                  of my new birth. Yet I neither wish to hasten or delay it. God has ordered it
                  aright. The bud swells and the flower expands by his rules; it is so with us."
               To one who read a hymn referring to 
                     
                        "The faithful Saviour, who shall come
                        Our dust to ransom from the tomb,"
                     
                   she replied: "O no! not the dust. We shall be done with dust.
                  Nothing which goes to the tomb returns. The body belongs to the tomb. Our Saviour
                  came to raise us from the body."
               Another read or spoke of the death of the righteous as a blessed sleep, and she
                  replied: "Not sleep, but a blessed waking. We are not fully awake
                  while in the body, but when we leave the flesh we shall have spiritual bodies,
                  which wilt not retard the soul with sleep, nor with other infirmities. God has
                  given us -these bodies only to prepare us for better ones."
               To her mother she said: "Think of me as with you still. God will permit me to
                  minister to you, and others whom I love; and it will be a part of my happiness to
                  commune with you, and to sustain you till you also shall be free, and we shall be
                  sister angels."—"Only remember," said she, playfully, "that there I
                  shall be the eldest."
               
               As the moment of her dissolution approached, she seemed mostly insensible to
                  outward things, but her countenance often expressed the soul's communings, and a
                  radiant smile passed over her features. Through the thin and broken veil of
                  mortality, she may have seen and talked with the happy ministering spirits in the
                  angel sphere.
               When the last earthly hour approached, there was a struggle of bodily pain,
                  severe, but short, and then she breathed calmly, but more and more faintly, till
                  daybreak. As the light dawned she rallied her strength for a moment, and wished to
                  speak. Her sister Helen bent over her to catch her words, but could distinctly
                  hear only the word "SEE." The expression of her countenance explained the rest. It
                  was some beautiful sight of which she wished to speak.....
               How beautiful was that mortal body which we consigned to the grave!—O! then how
                  surpassingly beautiful must be the spiritual!' We cannot conceive, but, when our
                  spirit victory is gained, then we shall "see."
               Let us bravely bear our earthly lot, our burthens and bereavements, rejoicing in
                  the treasures of love which shall surely be restored to our faithfulness. And let
                  us not mourn that those whom we love are sooner advanced to the blessed sphere. If
                  death were indeed dreadful, its most dreadful form would be a long-protracted
                  earthly life, with the successive loss of all our joys, and decay of our powers.
                  But to the truly enlightened death in no form is dreadful; it is but the sudden or
                  the gradual awakening to a new and glorious life.
               Yet it was mournful news to pass from house to house in Wolfsden, when the young
                  Frances, so lately the fairest, loveliest, and most welcome, wherever she
                  appeared, was now departed from our sight.
               The young and old, from far and near, came to take a last look of the form no
                  longer animated by the spirit which moulded it in such grace, and to learn anew
                  the lesson of death, so often learned, yet so little understood.
               In little scattered groups, with hushed voices, they spoke of how she looked when
                  they saw her last—so blithe and beautiful; or told what they knew, of her patient
                  sickness, and how it was believed that she had talked with angels, and foreknew
                  her early death; or they spoke of the absent brother—how dearly he loved her, and
                  how he would grieve.
               The scripture which she selected was read, and her chosen hymn was sung. They
                  expressed consolation and triumph. Over the flowery turf which her fairy feet had
                  so often trod, beneath the spreading elms where her play-ground had been, past the
                  green grove where she loved to wander, through the field and the hill-side where
                  every picture of the scenery is blended with her presence, silently, reverently,
                  mournfully, the long procession passed, attending her body to the grave.
               Yet the robin sweetly sang, and the sparrows blithely twittered, and the flowers
                  expanded their various beauties and sent up their sweet fragrance; and all nature
                  smiled as if to assure us that God's laws were even now, as ever, harmoniously
                  working out their happy results of mercy and love, only our eyes were too dim, and
                  our spirits too sad, to receive the grateful truth.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLII.
               ANOTHER year has unfolded its lessons of duty, of patience, submission, and
                  improvement; and another spring brings its tokens of faith, hope, and love.
                  Affection's wounds may not heal, but we learn to endure them. Departed delights
                  may no more return, but we hasten to overtake them.
               New duties demand our attention. Life, like the historian's page, still hastens
                  on. We may not loiter in the field, for the harvest demands the sickle, and the
                  reaper Death follows close behind us. Let us hasten our work while the sun still
                  shines. Hasten your deeds, ye heroes of destiny! Glide glibly, fair pen of
                  history!
               It was near the close of a pleasant day of June, 18—, when two travellers pursued
                  their winding upward way along the wildly romantic banks of the Saco. One of them,
                  gentlemanly-looking and in the early prime of life, rode in a well-varnished
                  "rockaway," whose easy luxury might have served a softer frame. The other, a stout
                  and spirited horse, trotted briskly along the uneven way, and drew the shining
                  rockaway, as gay and well pleased as his master; and as they journeyed he who rode
                  mused thus:
               "Here am I and my good steed pursuing our winding way along the banks of this
                  romantic river; and why are not we and our fortunes fit matters for romance? Were
                  the wonder-writing JAMES apprized of our position, how quickly would his genius
                  install us in the long ranks of his renowned heroes! Little thinks that mighty
                  master of rigmarole what a quarry he misses by not following on our track. Let us
                  cast a retrospective view.
               "Seven years have I wandered from my native home, driven by unrequited love and
                  unrelenting fate—(so the story should read, though the plain fact is, I went of my
                  own free will). Many perils have I encountered, and many achievements have I
                  performed, some of which might deserve at least a ballad, if a cheap poet could be
                  found; but Willis has taken to prose, and Holmes to pills, and the others are
                  probably above my price. These scenes bring back early lessons of economy. If I
                  buy a whistle, it must be a small one.
               "Beneath yon beechen tree, by the side of that ripping rivulet, I met the first
                  peril of my travels, which came near to prove the last; but I killed the
                  rattlesnake that threatened me, and hung him for a warning on that very thorn-bush
                  which still guards the wayside.
               "My first adventure in New York was worthy of Quixote's fame, and something more;
                  for my impulse was as good as ever warmed his chivalrous bosom, and my success
                  better than he often found. I beat the rowdies who would have mobbed the women,
                  and suffered no damage in the encounter.
               "I shall not omit to credit myself for my flight from Count Flummery's palace of
                  seduction. That flight was my most praiseworthy deed, for it was my most difficult
                  one; and, if recorded at all, it shall be compared to the retreat of Xenophon with
                  his ten thousand Greeks.
               "Also I preached morality to poor Fitz-Faun; but I could not save him, and therefore I infer that he was a
                  predestined reprobate. It is of no use to contend against the decrees of
                  destiny.
               "But I helped to save the splendid Erycina, who so dangerously imperilled me. She
                  is now a good and happy matron, with a lot of pretty children. I claim the whole
                  family as stars in my diadem of good deeds.
               "What a knight for distressed damsels and widows I have been! Sophia Greening may
                  thank me that I put her deliverer on the right track for rescuing her and winning
                  her; and widow Simperkins owes the recovery of her 'hunique' to my sagacity; but
                  we'll offset that against the snowdrift 'haccident.'
               "But Bang's widow and son owe me full credit for my labor of love in their behalf;
                  though Ike must come in for his share of merit in the management of Marshy, which
                  was very adroit, and perfectly justifiable. Wretches who ignore all honorable
                  principles and rules of conduct cannot claim protection by them. Vermin are out of
                  honor's pale. 
                     
                        'Who ever recked where, how, or when,
                        The prowling fox was trapped and slain?'
                     
                  
               
               "Ike writes me that our old minister, now a widower and doctor of divinity, pays
                  extra attentions to the widow Susan since her fortunes have mended. All very
                  natural, and very characteristic. It is prudent to befriend those whom Providence
                  befriends; it proves our piety to be on the same side with Providence. I hope she
                  will profit by his ministrations.
               "But I forget to complete the summing up of my own good deeds. No matter,— they
                  are all recorded, and will appear in the final reckoning; but possibly may not
                  figure up so favorably as I am disposed to make them. It is unsafe to reckon
                  without our host.
               "I have, however, served my employers faithfully, besides services rendered to
                  others, including myself; and I believe that I have wronged no one wilfully,
                  either in mind, body, or estate; so that between myself and my fellow-men I have a
                  clear conscience, which is doubtless an essential part in the great account. And
                  in the great struggle between right and wrong, which in a thousand forms is ever
                  going on in the world, my sympathies, at least, have always been on the side of
                  truth and humanity; which, however, is no matter of boast, for it was not in my
                  nature to be otherwise.
               "And now, after my seven years' apprenticeship in the world, I return to embrace
                  my beloved parents and brothers, and to see the grave of my sister. She left word
                  for me that I should not weep, but rejoice, for her. If my soul were as pure and
                  elevated as her own, I might perhaps be able to obey her request; but, O, how much
                  of the loveliness of home has departed with her! Yet the dear remembrance of her
                  presence will ever be a bond of attachment to the scenes of my youth, and I doubt
                  if ever I shall be enough of a philosopher to regard any other place with equal
                  interest. How beautiful is the image of her life and death as pictured in my mind!
                  How elevated and unselfish her thoughts, and how fond and strong her affections!
                  Her last message to me, through sister Helen, was to bequeath her share in my
                  heart to her dear friend Amy. Dear little Amy! how fond was she of Frances, and
                  how much attached to me! I remember that I left my home at dawn of day, to spare
                  her the pain of parting. But she is now no longer a little pet. How many of the
                  sweet charms of home I shall miss! Yet my father and mother still remain in health, and this is much to be thankful for;
                  and Billy and Tommy I hear are stout and good boys, and ambitious to emulate their
                  brother Alek, whom they have set up as a pattern. Well, we shall see what they can
                  do."
               Thus, musing and soliloquizing, our romantic traveller in the rockaway communed
                  with himself, while his horse trotted steadily along, making speedy progress,
                  pausing not in the upward or downward waving, bending way,—now through cool
                  valleys, arched by the overhanging forest and dusky from the declining sun; now
                  over knolls rising into the smiling view of approaching sunset; now turning by
                  sharp angles around insurmountable ledges of precipitous rock, and now in graceful
                  bendings by the base of some near encroaching hill, till at length they came where
                  a road turns abruptly from the river, and a guide-board pertinaciously directs the
                  traveller to WOLFSDEN, as though there were no other place in the world where
                  travellers need to go.
               Our travellers obeyed the intimation, and, ascending a hill, soon emerged from the
                  woody solitude to scenes of livelier interest.
               Behind, stretching far to the south and east, lay the shadowy vale, threaded by
                  the winding river, along whose banks hitherto for several hours they had
                  journeyed, meditated, and soliloquized.
               Before and on either hand, near and remote, high on the hill-sides or deep in the
                  shady valleys, on the level plains, by the border of wood-encircled lakes, and
                  along, the fertile meadows, where slow-winding streams loiter lazily along their
                  level bed,—by the wayside, or in remoter retreats, threaded by green lanes, and
                  obscured by orchards and scattered trees, a hundred homes fill and adorn the
                  pleasing panorama; a hundred homes, recalling a thousand familiar faces, and ten
                  thousand associations of early life. Even yet the apple-trees were in bloom, and
                  gave their fragrance to the gentle breeze. The rising corn had just begun to mark
                  the fields with slender lines, and green patches of various grains displayed their
                  young luxuriance. Cattle of every color and degree—gentle cows, majestic oxen, and
                  defiant bulls; mares sedate, and frisking colts; quiet ewes, and bleating
                  lambs—harmoniously shared their green pastures, and helped to fill the faithful
                  picture, and recall the realities of rural New England life.
               Every farm-house, every family, every human heart, has its history,—its joys and
                  sorrows, its thrilling hopes and trembling fears, its anticipations and
                  disappointments. Life's drama is everywhere in progress; its curtain rising and
                  falling, ever closing and ever renewed; and, however high or humble the stage,
                  still the story is of humanity. Human hearts throb with all that humanity can
                  feel, and learn what experience alone can teach.
               Here, a newly-married couple have just begun life's career. Themselves, their
                  cares, and their young dreams, are enough to people and fill with ample resources
                  their home and their time. There, a maturer pair are surrounded and overshadowed
                  by a rising family: striplings confident of untried powers; young maidens with
                  timid steps entering upon life's stage, each needing and receiving the correcting
                  and supporting aid of parental experience; while, lingering among the busy
                  bustlers of life, the gray patriarch and ancient dame, with silent care, perform
                  the last duties, and await the closing event of mortality.
               Half hidden in the distance toward the left, among the hills and the trees, the searching eye obtains the
                  outward view of an unpretending yet independent home, the home of three living
                  generations, as of other generations which have passed away, and perhaps of
                  generations yet unborn. There, at this moment, the flower of them all, a lovely
                  maiden, stands at her little glass, and arranges her simple toilet. Her daily
                  routine of duties done, she prepares for an evening walk. Though untaught by
                  fashion, she is educated in all that nature, truth, and innate delicacy can teach.
                  Her neat and dextrous hands easily supply all the ornament her native beauty
                  needs. Her wavy auburn hair is combed with a gentle downward curve, slightly
                  covering her fair temples. Her muslin kerchief protects, yet not quite conceals,
                  her beautiful neck. A well-chosen and well-fitted fabric of light material
                  displays the symmetry of her form, moulded and rounded in the fairest proportions
                  of perfect womanhood. Her eyes, radiant with intelligence and good-humor, but
                  softened with modest diffidence, look approvingly upon the faultless form and
                  features reflected in the little glass. She turns this way and that in every
                  direction, but finds nothing amiss; and, calling "Champion," the strong and
                  watchful house-dog, who gladly obeys her summons, with gentle caress and light
                  elastic step, she leaves the house.
               She trips along the green path, bordered by the lilacs, their gay plumes now
                  bending with superabundant fragrance. High over head the tall old pear-tree
                  showers down its white blossoms, half covering the turf, and giving a brighter
                  yellow to the new-coined dandelions which thickly bedeck the green.
               She passes through the gate and adown the road by the old stone wall, over which
                  the blackberry waves its flexile branches, and displays its snowy blossoms, in
                  token of luscious pickings to come.
               She pauses but for a moment where a narrow grove of beeches, fresh in the light
                  green of their young leaves, fringes, the field, and gives to the wayside
                  traveller in sultry noon a grateful shade. Here, each year, when October frosts
                  open the rough burrs, has she gathered ample hoards of nuts for winter evening's
                  hospitality, but left to the squirrels and wild pigeons their larger share.
               The road descends and crosses a little brook, which gurgles and glides and eddies
                  along, among mossy rocks, and over shining sands, and in deep pools, where the
                  speckled trout loves to hide, and dart upon the luckless grasshopper betrayed upon
                  the treacherous tide.
               From the thick alders which border the brook a partridge springs and whirrs away
                  to securer depths. Champion jumps to chase the escaping prey, but soon ceases the
                  fruitless pursuit, and only wishes he had sooner been there.
               The ascending-road, fringed and encroached upon by ferns, and whortleberry-bushes,
                  at length discloses a by-path,—the hypothenuse of a distant angle. It is a shorter
                  and prettier way, and leads through a grove of maples, where but lately the
                  dripping sap filled the shallow troughs of rifted wood, and, thence transferred to
                  the boiling kettle, became by rustic alchemy transmuted to the yellow nuggets
                  which juvenile mortals love.
               At length the path emerges upon a broad road, with well-built walls of stone on
                  either side, enclosing and protecting far-reaching fields, now springing in green
                  promise, and soon to glow in gorgeous array of gold, and silver, and crimson, and
                  purple, such as Solomon in all his glory could not reach, —but soon again, alas! to be despoiled by the
                  unsparing scythe,—relentless emblem of the fate which awaits all flesh which is
                  but grass.
               But youthful beauty moralizes not thus. She trips along and enjoys the lovely
                  scene and balmy air of June, and thinks not of despoiling autumn. Champion, as
                  regardless as herself of the destiny of dogs and men, now scours away in long
                  excursion, scaring blackbirds and robins from their grassy hiding-places, and now
                  trots panting by her side. Happy mortals! No objects or cares perplex them. They
                  go forth without expectation, and, therefore, meet no disappointment.
               But events meet those who do not expect them. Whether unawares or anticipated, the
                  fate which destiny decrees will find us. The fair maiden had already sufficiently
                  prolonged her walk, and was about to return, when a carriage came suddenly in
                  sight. It was a shining rockaway, occupied by a single traveller, and drawn by a
                  handsome horse. She could not well turn to go back till she had passed the
                  carriage, for that would look like an uncivil avoidance of the stranger. She saw
                  that it was a stranger, and such a one as youthful maidens do not often shun.
               The carriage approached, and the stranger, with deferential grace, bowed, and,
                  with apologizing politeness, begged to be informed whether Colonel Bowler lived in
                  the vicinity. His look, and indeed his motives, were sincere, but his words
                  dissimulated; for he already well knew where Colonel Bowler lived. It was
                  something else he wanted to know, and which his penetrating eyes seemed already to
                  find in the maiden's countenance.
               The maiden replied, unsuspiciously, but with a flutter in her heart which she
                  could not understand, nor quite repress, that Colonel Bowler was her father, and
                  lived less than a mile distant. It was the first house after turning the fist
                  corner to the left.
               "If you are Colonel Bowler's daughter," said the handsome stranger, "you must be
                  Amy, whom I have so often called my daughter."
               Amy looked up with surprised recognition.
               "Do you not know Alek?" continued he, alighting from the carriage, and offering
                  his hand. "Recollect who found you in the woods, and whom you used to call
                  uncle."
               The maiden's eyes sparkled and suffused with artless and earnest welcome. It was
                  Alek,—altered, indeed,—but still impersonating the image cherished and venerated
                  from childhood. Alek saw his advantage, and, seizing her hands, pressed them to
                  his lips with many kisses. Her cherry lips, and blushing cheeks, and radiant eyes,
                  looked as if they had at least equal claims. Amy forgot for the moment that she
                  was not still a child. Alek seemed to forget it too; for he clasped her in his
                  arms, and repaid to cherry lips, and blushing cheeks, and radiant eyes, their
                  well-deserved tribute of a hundred kisses.*
                  
               
               
                  *Amy, who has got a peep at the manuscript, insists that this is an
                     exaggeration by ten-fold.
               
               But her self-forgetfulness was but for a moment. With gentle dignity she
                  disengaged herself; and, giving her hand, told him that she would accompany him
                  home—"Where," said she "your father and mother, and Billy and Tommy, will be
                  gladder to see you than I am."
               She got into the carriage, and sat by his side. He asked a thousand questions, not
                  one of which was prompted by the
                  interest uppermost in his mind; for his heart and brain were filled with new-born
                  thoughts and emotions,—too immature for present utterance. What were they? A
                  glance at his present position may explain them.
               He had just returned, after years of absence and enterprise, to the calm and
                  congenial scenes of his youth. His mind, so long given to the pursuits and
                  projects of busy ambition, was now turned into a new channel, where early
                  feelings, affections, and sentiments, cherished, though repressed, were waiting to
                  resume their sway.
               His heart was filled and expanded with tender emotions and ardent affections. His
                  love of home beat stronger in his bosom as the distance lessened. Even inanimate
                  objects shared his regard;—the dumb animals seemed like familiar friends, and the
                  birds in the branches gave notes of welcome.
               Attentive readers, who have retained the philosophy as well as the facts of this
                  history, already understand the moral anatomy of the human heart; how, when the
                  warm emotions—filial, fraternal, and social love—friendship, patriotism, and their
                  kindred train, crowd into and fill their respective places, then the whole
                  sentimental system expands, and opens to ever generous impression. Then the
                  connubial cell, before described, and now accessible through a thousand enlarged
                  channels, is prepared to receive its occupant if at this auspicious moment the
                  destined one comes by, the indwelling spirit recognizes and invites the life-long
                  guest.
               Thus, surrounded and swayed by the unseen destinies which direct and control the
                  actions of mortals who fondly fancy that they move with unbiased free will, Alek
                  drove on, and the fair Amy sat by his side,—by the side where his full heart lay,
                  the nearest and beat the strongest. He asked a hundred random questions of things
                  he thought not of, that he might look in her radiant face and hear her sweet Voice
                  in reply. He saw—for his quick-discerning mind could trace the true signs which
                  mark the abode of a heavenly-gifted soul—that the face whose beauty delighted his
                  eyes was also lighted with the deeper and rarer radiance of refined and expansive
                  thought. The features and form which must attract all eyes was invested with grace
                  and dignity compelling respect from all. He saw what a precious prize awaited some
                  happy adventurer in life's lottery, and pondered how long the golden moments of
                  opportunity might last.
               The idolized though forbidden image which had so long been shut up in his secret
                  heart, excluding every other tender impression, was now suddenly obscured; for a
                  brighter vision filled its place, and sweet hope rejoiced in the change. He rode
                  on, and held joyful converse with his fair partner; but not of the subject which
                  fill his mind.
               And what were Amy's thoughts? Tell, ye who can fathom the female heart. The looks
                  and words were those of undisguised gladness and frank welcome,—such as a sister
                  might bestow. Was there a deeper and secret sentiment? Who can know,—or, knowing,
                  would presume to tell?
               Their carriage moved slowly, but the moments passed quickly; and, in a space which
                  seemed miraculously brief, they came to the paternal door. Alek announced himself
                  to his parents with fond embraces, and introduced Amy as a lady whom he had picked
                  up astray, and brought to be identified.
               "You could not have brought one whom it gives me more pleasure to identify," replied his mother,
                  welcoming Amy, though a daily visitant, as warmly as if she had been absent a
                  month.
               Billy and Tommy, stout, red-cheeked, rough and ready youngsters, full of youthful
                  spirits and green promise, were quickly present to share the reunion; and even
                  Lion, now in his dotage, by degrees recognized his old master, and rejuvenated
                  himself with reminiscences of the fights and frolics of his days of glory. Joy,
                  thankfulness, and deeper emotions and remembrances, mingled their sweetness and
                  sadness in the full fraught hour.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIII.
               WHEN Alek and his mother were alone, and after other matters had been sufficiently
                  treated, she asked him what he thought of Amy. Alek, with assumed indifference,
                  replied that she had grown finely, and seemed a clever girl.
               "She is a precious girl," replied his mother, earnestly. "I have never seen one
                  out of my own family whom I should so much rejoice to call daughter."
               To Alek's excited mind the remark had a meaning perhaps stronger than was
                  intended; and he blushed, not with confusion, but with pleasure.
               "Surely," said he to himself, "I shall not be so undutiful as to deny my mother so
                  reasonable a wish, if it shall be in my power to fulfil it."
               Thus, the first day of his return from enterprise abroad became the era of more
                  important enterprise at home.
               But the enterprise was not difficult. It is provoking that such fine materials for
                  romance should be spoiled by the perverse kindness of fate. Never was wooing, and
                  winning, and wiving, so quietly done. Like the boy's whistling, it did itself.
                  Everybody saw that it was an inevitable event, and therefore helped it along with
                  hearty good-will; and those who might be most suspected of secret envyings were
                     most forward to manifest their
                  magnanimous approbation. Before the principal, parties had proper time to
                  interchange a word on the subject, their wedding-day, with all its circumstances
                  and ceremonials on a most liberal scale, was debated, arranged, fixed, and
                  proclaimed, all over Wolfsden. Under these circumstances, an explicit
                  understanding between the primary parties became essentially expedient.
               "Dearest Amy," said Alek, one day, after several weeks of closely-cultivated
                  companionship, with mutually increased esteem and attachment,—"dearest Amy, our
                  kind neighbors have not only given us to each other for life in anticipation, but
                  have actually appointed our wedding-day for next Thanksgiving. If you will be but
                  as kind as they, I shall be still happier in your society than now, for I shall
                  feel secure of not losing it."
               Amy was silent for a few moments, as if endeavoring to comprehend the meaning of
                  what she heard; then, with a trembling voice, though trying very hard to appear
                  natural, she replied,
               "You know I love you very much; but—indeed—really—I—this is an important matter,
                  and—very sudden—I—"
               "Sweet Amy," said Alek, stopping her broken speech with a kiss, "you shall not be
                  hurried; we will delay the subject till evening; and now let us take our morning
                  walk."
               They walked through the orchard, where, the new-mown grass gave a smooth, soft
                  carpet to their feet; along by the empowered hedge, bending with ripe raspberries;
                  through the grove where the birds sang songs of love; across the field, and adown
                  the cross-road to the Morgan estate, now possessed sessed by Jacob, the elder
                  brother of Amy. Before they reached the gate which led to his house, Amy stopped,
                  and pointed,—
               "That," said she, "is the tree under which I left my basket of berries, when I
                  went to gather flowers, just twelve years ago yesterday. This is the anniversary
                  of the day when you found me, and made me—yours forever."
               She looked up in his face; her own was full of blushes, and her eyes suffused with
                  starting tears, but love shone resplendent and triumphant through them all.
               "Mine forever!—and may God make me worthy of the gift!" said Alek, with deep
                  emotion, as he clasped her to his bosom, and kissed her blushing cheeks and
                  tearful eyes.
               They prolonged their walk; but minded not whither they went. There was no need; to
                  them the world was everywhere full of beauty and sweetness. The loving skies
                  encircled the peaceful earth, and the peaceful earth reflected back its smiles of
                  love and joy.
               Come, ye who find the world a dreary abode of moody discontent, of harsh discord,
                  and pining grief; and learn how it may become a home of heavenly peace and
                  delight. Let it be filled with love. Heaven is full of it, and is free to bestow
                  it upon the earth in fulness, would mortals but receive it.
               When Alek went home, he told his mother of his engagement to Amy.
               "Now," replied she, "my fondest wish for your happiness is granted. She is worthy
                  of your best affections; for she has the Heart to reciprocate your love, and the
                  mind to comprehend and associate with your own. Nothing is more essential to the
                  happiness of a man of refined understanding than that his wife should be able to appreciate and
                  respond to it. The sweetest tribute to superior talent is that paid by a beloved
                  wife. But when a man of high endowments marries a woman of common or vulgar mind,
                  mutual dislike is sure to follow. The husband naturally expects the deference due
                  to conscious superiority; while the wife, so far from acknowledging, or even
                  seeing it, probably considers him inferior to the common kind, who belong to her
                  own level; for them she can understand, and him she cannot. Your love will be
                  lasting, for your wife will have the good sense to perceive and take pride in your
                  intellectual powers—to enjoy them, and even improve them; for a woman of good
                  natural endowments will aid to improve her husband's mind, though his endowments
                  and attainments be superior to her own. There is a delicacy and refinement in a
                  true woman's genius, whose influence is essential to the highest point of man's
                  culture, as her approval is to his highest triumphs. It is the foible of men of
                  genius that they scarcely prize even love itself, unless accompanied by respect
                  and honor."
               Alek announced the matter to his father, who warmly expressed his approval.
               "It is now more than thirty years," said he, "since I was united to your dear
                  mother, who was then more beautiful than any girls we see nowadays, though Amy
                  comes nearer than any other I know of. I hope she will prove as true and as good,
                  and then you will have the best blessing earth can give—one whose price, as
                  Solomon says, is above rubies. I am truly thankful that you are to come with so
                  good a girl to make your parents' home brighter in their old age. You are much
                  richer than your father ever was, or desired to be; but you are above pride in
                  wealth, and therefore are not in so much danger from it. I hope you will always be
                  content with the home place. You may improve it as much as you will, but I wish
                  that my children may always possess the home that has been so dear to their
                  parents, and so signally blessed to us all."
               "It will ever be the dearest spot in the world to us all," replied Alek, "and when
                  Billy and Tommy shall have finished their apprenticeship in New York, and seen
                  enough of life there, they will return to settle about us, so that we shall all
                  have opportunity to help and enjoy each other while we live."
               It should here be explained that it had already been arranged that Alek should
                  take the home place, and that Billy should accept a place in Messrs. Greening
                  & Russet's agricultural establishment, and Tommy should go into Mr. Boynton's
                  counting-room. Alek's good conduct and successful services had opened the way for
                  these valuable situations, with peculiarly favorable circumstances; and it may be
                  mentioned, in passing, that hitherto they have justified the expectations raised
                  by their brother's honorable career. But we cannot pursue their fortunes. Our
                  history must pause, and end where it began—in Wolfsden.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIV.
               TIME moves swiftly on golden pinions. Many a youth and maiden, looking upon Alek
                  and Amy, see a more attractive grace in their devoted, though dignified and
                  unostentatious affection than they had before imagined, and sigh for equal bliss.
                  Their sighs mingle, and the soft contagion spreads. There will be more weddings
                  than one, next Thanksgiving. Parson Boreman, or rather the Rev. Dr. Boreman, will
                  be in request.
               But the Rev. Dr. Boreman's gracious head has already pondered and arranged a
                  matter which must intercept, for his own benefit, the benedictions with which he
                  has blessed so many couples for so many successive Thanksgivings. He means to be
                  blessed himself. But so important a matter must be announced in his own words.
               It was of a Sunday evening, while the reverend doctor was still invested with the
                  dignity of his pulpit dress, his robes and bands redolent of sanctity and his face
                  radiant with his own eloquence, that he sent for Lucinda to his study, and, with
                  an air which indicated matter of unusual weight, thus addressed her:
               "My daughter, it is now two years since your departed mother left me a mourner.
                  During that time, as ever before, you have been all to me that a daughter could
                  be, and I have been resigned, as it behoved me, to the divine will. But
                  considering your solitary condition, without the help and guidance of maternal
                  counsel, my mind has been led to reflect upon the fitness and propriety of
                  changing my condition. I have, therefore, taken counsel with a very worthy woman,
                  and it is appointed that she shall dwell in my house as—as—as one of its united
                  head. I refer to Mrs. Susan Barker. I trust that you will be prepared to receive
                  her as a mother; and I doubt not that the—the visitation—rather the—the
                  dispensation, as I may say, will be sanctified—that is, profitable to us all."
               Lucinda, as already hinted, had read romances, and well knew how such
                  announcements should be received by dutiful and sentimental daughters. She
                  therefore gracefully advanced, and, kneeling by his chair, kissed his hand, and in
                  a pretty speech prepared for the occasion, which she had long been expecting,
                  wished him every joy in his new relation.
               The reverend doctor was delighted at what he considered the happy conclusion of
                  this embarrassing part of the business; but, as his own impatient congregation had
                  too often found, there were more "last words," even after the conclusion. Lucinda
                  still kept her position—she had "a word to add."
               "My dear father," resumed she, "I—I have something On my mind to say; I—I hope, as
                  you are so good as to give me a new mother, you will not object to—to receiving
                  her son; that is, Jotham, as your son—that is, I mean, we have thought of
                  being—being—a 'united head.'"
               "What! you marry Ax?" exclaimed the doctor, hardly believing that he had heard
                  aright.
               "Yes, father," meekly replied the daughter.
               
               The reverend doctor was dumbfounded. Here was an unexpected catastrophe. He had
                  not imagined an emergency so out of the common order of events, and it took some
                  moments to calculate the consequences.
               "This is a crabbed text," though he. "She pays me back in my own coin. Who would
                  have thought of such a plot where all seemed so quiet! But it is the way of her
                  sex, ever since Eve. Truly the apostle observes, 'Woman was first in the
                  transgression;' and some able commentator says, that 'women sometimes lose their
                     wits.'"*
               
               
                  
                  *This remarkable saying is quoted in the Arabian Nights by the Caliph Haroun
                     Alraschid, who declares that he does not know who is its author. Dr.
                     Boreman's quoting it proves that his reading was not exclusively
                     canonical.
               
               Reflecting, however, that it was best to put a good face on it, since opposition
                  would provoke trouble all round, and that Ax, though but a boy, was well grown and
                  a serious lad, he gave his paternal consent; and Ax (who was, by Lucinda's
                  contrivance, listening in the adjoining entry) being called in, the clerical
                  benediction was bestowed, and the business comfortably concluded.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLV.
               TIME may have lagged with the impatient lovers but it shall not so with the
                  reader. Thanksgiving day came in its appointed season, with all its budget of good
                  cheer. To Col. Bowler's hospitable house it came with even more than its wonted
                  preparation. Ike had proclaimed his resolution that Amy's wedding should be
                  celebrated in grand style. Nobody dissented, and all the younger fry applauded the
                  resolution, and joined in the preparation. The colonel expressed himself gratified
                  that the spirit of Seventy-six was still extant. The Adjutant volunteered to
                  muster the company. George said that he would screw up his fiddle once more. The
                  guests were invited, and the auspicious day came in with glory.
               Elder Kraken (the same who presided at the reformation meeting, where Harry was
                  mistaken for a convert) performed the priestly office; for the Rev. Dr. Boreman
                  had two weddings on his hands at home—his own and Lucinda's; but the Elder did it
                  with zeal, and gave good satisfaction to all concerned.
               We cannot stop to enumerate the guests nor describe the various entertainment, the
                  sports and the solemnities; but the reader may depend upon it that it was a great
                  wedding, just as Ike had resolved.
               
               Harry and Margaret were there. They came a month before, with a brisk little
                  curly-pated, bright-eyed imp of their own, who, being a prodigy, everybody had
                  conspired to spoil. The grandparents—that is, Deacon Murray and wife were there.
                  The deacon's gravity was as an ounce of ballast to a whole cargo of gayety. The
                  Chinbys were there. It was thought that much of the motive of Ike's enthusiasm for
                  a great wedding was to get the Chinbys; for, by his contrivance and Amy's
                  coöperation, he and the eldest of the blue-eyed daughters were groomsman and
                  bride's-maid. Dr. Drinkmore was there. He came all the way from New York, at
                  Harry's and Margaret's invitation, to try the air of Wolfsden. He finds it
                  agreeable to his constitution; and Harry remarks that the water will prove no less
                  so. He and Margaret have resolved to make a teetotaller of the doctor. Mrs.
                  Simperkins was there; having timed her annual visitation so as to include all such
                  occasions. It was well enough. The wise ancients hung up a skeleton in their halls
                  of festivity, to remind them of their mortality.
               Some were merry, and some were serious; there were laughter and sighs, mirthful
                  jests and solemn reflections; every room had its congenial circle, attracted by
                  mutual affinities. All tastes were accommodated. Major Murray, and others who had
                  a character for gravity to maintain, took the little parlor furthest from the
                  kitchen, where the festivities of the young folks, as ultra in their levity as the
                  others in their gravity, became at times uproarious. The large sitting-room was
                  filled mostly with the middling or transition class, many of whom sympathized and
                  sometimes joined with the rantapoles in the kitchen, where George, with his
                  violin, somewhat restrained and regulated their wild spirits with musical
                  harmony.
               The happy bridal circle, including the principal parties and their closest
                  intimates, and some others, inquirers or converts to the institution of matrimony,
                  were generally grouped together. Old times and events were recalled with new
                  interest, and the beautiful things of the past, culled from its asperities and
                  garnered up in memory, were reproduced. Margaret, with matronly soberness,
                  reminded Alek of their last merry meeting; and, looking significantly at Amy,
                  archly inquired whether the hero of his "Match Story" had not found an estate with
                  not only a better title, but also a prettier prospect. Alek was half confused by
                  the reminiscence and the application, but owned that his hero (meaning himself)
                  had profited by the suggestion with which she so ingeniously finished his
                  story.
               When the more active sports subsided, psalmody was suggested. The colonel brought
                  out his bass-viol, George brought in his violin, and the soul-stirring strains and
                  fantastic fugues of Billings and Holden were performed with the lofty energy of
                  old days. The spirit of Seventy-six was roused. Harry and Margaret led; Alek and
                  Amy seconded; Squire Chinby and his blue-eyed daughters, with Ike by their side,
                  and all who had voices and lungs, joined in fall chorus. There was a tempest of
                  music.
               When this was abated, match stories, and other stories were told. We have not room
                  to repeat them, but will give one to fill up this chapter, and attract juvenile
                  tastes. It was told by Aunt Deborah to a group of young and attentive ears. Aunt
                  Deborah always found a time to please and instruct children; and Parson Boreman,
                  when, after exhausting his subject, he
                  finds a page of his sermon left blank, generally fills it with "a word to the
                  young." Philoprogenitive readers will not censure us that we follow their example,
                  and devote a page to the juveniles.
               
                  AUNT DEBORAH'S STORY.
                  "A generous youth once met a warm-hearted maiden. A gleam of sunshine, brighter
                     than common sunshine, shone upon them, and the things about them, and made the
                     flowers gayer, and the fruits sweeter, and the birds more melodious, and
                     themselves more attractive to each other, than they had before imagined; and
                     when they separated, the common sunlight seemed dim, and the flowers faded, and
                     the fruits tasteless and the birds mute, and themselves unhappy. So they again
                     met, and resolved to live always together; and the gleam of bright sunshine
                     illuminated their dwelling and shone about their path, and the flowers were
                     again bright, and the fruits sweet, and merry were the songs of the birds.
                  "As they continued to live together, the gleam of sunshine took various forms.
                     When he cultivated his fields, it ran along and smoothed the way,
                     and made his task easy; and when he was tired, it made even weariness pleasant,
                     and rest refreshing. When he drove his team, it made his steers docile and
                     obedient, and his colts gentle and willing. His trees grew thriftily and bore
                     abundantly; his house was filled with plenty, and his heart with peace.
                  "And as she performed her household duties, the bright gleam of
                     sunshine run along and made them light, and prevented all vexations. The cows
                     gave their milk quietly and abundantly; the sweet butter came quickly from the
                     rich cream; the hens laid eggs with liberal hearts, and cackled to give notice
                     of their timely tribute; her stores of comfort increased, she performed offices
                     of charity, and her heart was filled with peace.
                  "But the demon of discord passed by, and envied their happiness; and he came in
                     disguise, and hid by their hearth, and breathed forth vapor that clouded the
                     gleam of sunshine, so that it could not illuminate the house, and the walls of
                     the dwelling were filled with gloom.
                  "And as the man went forth to his toils the cloud went with him, and his way
                     was rough, and his labors hard, and his rest gave no refreshment. His oxen were
                     unruly, and would not obey; his horses were vicious and would bite and kick;
                     his trees forbore to grow, and their scraggy branches were covered with
                     canker-worms, and yielded only hateful moss; his prosperity declined, and his
                     heart was filled with discontent.
                  "And as the woman toiled at her household tasks, everything went wrong. The
                     cloud followed her from pantry to dairy, and from chamber to cellar. The sheep
                     shed their fleeces among the briers; the cows held up their milk, or kicked
                     over the pail; the butter would not come, and the maggots spoiled the cheese;
                     the hens scratched the garden, but refused to lay; her cakes were heavy, and so
                     was her heart.
                  "And they went out from their house by different ways. The man took the road
                     that went upon the hill, and the woman took the road that went into the valley.
                     And the man saw an eagle soaring and screaming among the cliffs as he guarded
                     his nest; and he listened to the voice of the eagle, which seemed to say, 'I am
                     the king of birds, and the companion
                     of Jove. I rule my house in fear, and discord dares not to disturb my
                     rest.'
                  "And the man said, "I too will assert my prerogative, and compel the obedience
                     which is my due, and discord shall not disturb my dwelling.'
                  "And the woman walked in the valley, and saw a raven upon her nest, watching
                     her young. And the raven croaked, and seemed to say, 'I dwell in silence and
                     gloom, and, though I am weak, yet my voice has power to chill the heart with
                     omens of ill, and, I am feared by those who are mightier than I.'
                  "And the woman said, 'I too will dwell in silence and gloom, and nurture my
                     powers to repel and assail.'
                  "So the demon of discord rejoiced, and made strong his dwelling in the hearth
                     of the once happy home.
                  "And again the man and woman went forth by different ways, and the woman went
                     upon the mountain, and the man went into the valley. And the man saw a dove by
                     its nest, and the dove cooed, and seemed to say, 'I bow my spirit in meekness,
                     and rejoice to give joy to others, and therefore my breast and my nest are
                     filled with peace.'
                  "And the man pondered long, and various thoughts arose; but at last he said, 'I
                     am not a dove, and I cannot bow my spirit in meekness.' Yet he sighed for
                     peace.
                  "And the woman who went upon the mountain saw at a distance the gleam of bright
                     sunshine which rejoiced her early days, and her heart yearned for it to come
                     nearer; and she ran toward it, but it seemed to recede, and she was fearful and
                     faint; but she stretched forth her hands, and cried, 'O, beautiful sunshine,
                     come and warm my heart!'
                  "And a voice answered and said, 'I am the spirit of LOVE. I dwell only with
                     those who subdue their spirit in meekness, and who seek reconciliation for
                     offence, even though self-justifying pride oppose it. You have chosen the demon
                     of discord, and therefore I have departed.'
                  "But the woman cried aloud, and said, 'O, beautiful spirit of sunshine and
                     love, come back and drive the demon of discord away, for I will subdue my
                     spirit in meekness!' and her heart trembled and was sore, but the weight and
                     gloom which oppressed it passed away.
                  "And she hastened home, and the gleam of sunshine went before her, and her
                     house was filled with its light, and the demon of discord was dazzled and
                     blinded, and fled from the door.
                  "And while the man pondered in sadness, he looked up and saw his dwelling
                     bright with the sunshine of former days; and he hastened home, and his
                     companion came to meet him, and said, 'O, my husband! I have subdued my spirit
                     in meekness, and the demon of discord has departed, and the sunshine of love
                     fills our house; and even now shines upon your face, and makes it
                     beautiful.'
                  "And the man answered, 'O, beloved of my heart! you are indeed my better half,
                     for you have by example taught me what I should do. I will also subdue my
                     spirit in meekness, and the demon of discord shall no more enter our
                     dwelling.'
                  "And the man went forth to cultivate his field, and the sunshine went about
                     him, and his work was easy and his rest sweet. His oxen ploughed their furrows
                     deep and straight, his horses came at his call, and rejoiced to do his bidding,
                     his trees put forth thrifty branches, and bore abundant fruit, his garners were filled with plenty, and his
                     heart with peace.
                  "And as the woman went about her house, the bright gleam filled every room, and
                     her duties were easy and delightful. The pretty lambs frisked in her path, and
                     gave their finest wool. The cows gave overflowing pails of milk, and sweet were
                     the treasures of her dairy. The hens cackled to give notice of new-laid eggs;
                     her bread was light and sweet, and so were her heart and her life."
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVI.
               WHERE are the heroes of my story? Like the fleeting shadows thrown by the magic
                  lantern, they have flitted over the disk of romance into the shade of
                  obscurity,—into the retreats of domestic life, or into the spirit sphere.
               From my favorite window in Alek's house, which sister Amy's careful prudence and
                  cheerful affection make so pleasant, I look upon a merry group of children playing
                  beneath the trees. One, a "toddlin wee thing," is Amy's pride and everybody's
                  wonder. I myself think him a "remarkable child." Of the others, the two biggest
                  are Boyntons. Harry and Margaret are responsible for them, and will soon be here
                  after them. Harry has found out that his genius is for farming, and the major has
                  given up the farm to him. The old lady's influence brought it about. She could not
                  have been satisfied otherwise. Too much ease was her disease. She was oppressed
                  with too little to do. Quietude was killing her. Now that trouble is effectually
                  remedied. Harry and his two boys and the baby would banish the quiet Of a
                  churchyard. Besides, Dr. Drinkmore is still their guest. He helps plan crops and
                  improvements. Harry holds his opinions in high estimation. They are
                  "book-farmers," and it must be owned that they produce some noble crops, and raise
                     fine cattle, though neighbors say
                  that, were Harry's resources limited to the proceeds of his farm, his genius would
                  soon fail for want of funds,—but the sale of Oakridge supplies the sinews of
                  enterprise, and the Boynton farm, with its cattle and crops, gets honorable
                  mention in the "Agricultural Reports."
               But there is no time for details. We are all to be at the wedding at Squire
                  Chinby's to-day. Ike has won the eldest of those cerulean daughters to be his
                  bride, and he wants us for witnesses. All of us are to be there,—Bowlers, Arbors,
                  Boyntons, and the rest. Just now a carriage comes over the hill; it is Harry and
                  Margaret. Dr. Drinkmore is with them; they are to call for the children, and we
                  are all to go together. Alek's colts are harnessed, and impatient for the
                  excursion. Lion,—yes, here comes Lion with the children. His faculties have lapsed
                  into second puppyhood, and he judges himself still fit to partake in wedding
                  festivities. Well, come along, Lion; you are not the only overweening dog in the
                  land.
               Hullo, Harry! Good-morning, fair Margaret! Still as fair and bright as in your
                  girlhood, and a good deal happier,—with your pretty babe in your arms, and your
                  rantapole boys spreading themselves around. Good-morning, Dr. Drinkmore. Here are
                  all the children seeking to be taken into the carriage; and here comes Amy with
                  her cherub,—a match for anybody's. Ah, doctor! these pretty sights sometimes make
                  us regret our bachelorhood; but it is too late to sigh—THE HISTORY OF WOLFSDEN IS
                  ENDED!
            
         
      
      
         
            APPENDIX.
            
               A.
               THE story of Mrs. Simperkins, being omitted in its proper place, for reasons there
                  given, is here appended by virtue of permission contained in the following letter: 
                     
                        
                           
                              "RESPECTED SIR: I received your polite letter, and take up my pen
                                 to inform you that I approve of your printing the history of
                                 Wolfsden; for when all the families have their names and
                                 connections printed, then everybody can tell who is who, and there
                                 will be no mistakes in generations. In the old country, everybody
                                 that is anything has a coat of arms, which is the same thing. As
                                 you propose very kindly to put my name in (which I consider very
                                 proper, being in some sort a daughter of America, as I adopted this
                                 country from affection, and not for profit), I send you my coat of
                                 arms, which you may put in the book, as it tells all about my
                                 family; and you can get some Englishman to explain it, as I do not
                                 exactly remember the meaning of the signs, only the figure on the
                                 top is a 'vampyre rampant,' which signifies that we descended from
                                 the nobility.
                              "As you ask for leave to put in my story, I am willing, being in
                                 some sort bound, as an adopted daughter of America, to do something
                                 for the literature of the same; and I shall feel that I have some
                                 part in the book, which I hope you will acknowledge.
                              "I shall spend the winter paying the visits I am owing in Wolfsden,
                                 at Deacon Arbor's, and Major Murray's, and Colonel Bowler's, and
                                 good dear Doctor Boreman's, whose family are all thriving nicely;
                                 for Lucinda has got a fine boy, and her husband, whom we used to
                                 call Ax, is the best schoolmaster in Wolfsden. I mean to spend a
                                 few weeks at Mr. Harry Boynton's, and Alek Arbor's, and Josiah
                                 Brown's that married Ann Bowler, and Isaac Bowler's that they
                                 called Ike. They all used to be wild young men, but are now very
                                 steady and sober.
                              "I hope you will send me some of the books as soon as they are printed; and also send a
                                 bottle of Dr. Diddler's Hair Dye and Remedy for Wrinkles, which is
                                 wanted for a friend; and when you see Mrs. Greening, ask her to
                                 send any female medicines which she finds best. And so I remain
                                 your friend, respectfully,
                              
                                 "ANN AMANDINA SIMPERKINS."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The following is the substance of Mrs. Simperkins' story, so frequently crammed
                  into our ears against the stomach of our sense; though, as several years have
                  since passed, it is not possible exactly to represent from memory her peculiar
                  graces of delivery:
               "When I resided in Lunnun I became hacquainted with a great gentleman, who came
                  into hour shop in Cheapside. I say hour shop, because I used to be there hoften
                  when Mr. Simperkins was haway; and it was dull sitting in my parlor halone, and so
                  I used to run hover to Mrs. Snubs'. And when poor Mr. Simperkins died I took hup
                  my habode there, and elped to tend shop. Mrs. Snubs was a werry genteel lady, and
                  her shop was the genteelest in Cheapside, and Cheapside is the genteelest street
                  in Lunnun—next to Pall-Mall and Convent Garden. The nobility and gentry do hall
                  their business there, and hit's a grand thing to see the coaches, and the coachman
                  hon the box, with his powered wig and white gloves, and the lords and ladies
                  getting hout to do their business. And when the nobility walk through Cheapside,
                  it is a grand sight; for one can halways tell a lord by his attitude and hair.
               "I was one day sitting in the shop, when who should come hin but one of the most
                  helegant gentlemen my heyes hever beheld. He had a star and ribbon, by which I
                  knew he was a lord, and he asked for some gloves, and tried hon a pair; and O,
                  such ands! as delicate as a lady's, and covered with diamond rings. He ordered a
                  dozen pair worth twelve crowns, and threw down three guineas and his card, and
                  said he would send his servant for them and when I hoffered change, he refused it,
                  and made one of those fine speeches which the gentry so love to make, but which I
                  never would listen to.
               "I appened to ave hon a werry fine bracelet which my usband left me. He had been
                  hunfortunate in business, but the bracelet was werry waluable. Hit was left for
                  security by a werry great lady, who borrowed money; for my usband was a
                  pawnbroker, and the bracelet was presented to the lady by the Prince of Wales. He
                  said hit was a hunique; and certainly hit was something wonderful. Hit was made of
                  the most waluable stones, set in gold. The centre was a brilliant diamond, with
                  rays made of different gems and pointed with diamonds.
               "I noticed that the count seemed to hadmire hit werry much. I won't say but what,
                  being werry young,—for that was ten years ago,—I was a little wain. When he was
                  gone I looked at the card, which was engraved with a coronet, and COUNT FLIPPERTON
                  hunder it. In half an hour a spruce footman in livery came with his master's card,
                  and took the gloves.
               "Hin a few days Count Flipperton called again when Mrs. Snubs was hout, and bought
                  some lace ruffles, and paid as liberally as before. And about a week hafter he
                  came again in a coach with two smart footmen behind, and led in the prettiest lady
                  you hever set heyes hon, and hintrodunced her as lady Flipperton, and said to her,
                  "My dear, this is the young lady I praised so ighly;' and her ladyship gave me a
                  werry polite bow, and hobserved that she was werry appy to be hacquainted with me.
                  She was much pleased with hour goods, and made the greatest purchases we had sold
                  for a long time. Hevery beautiful and rich thing she saw she hadmired, and the
                  count hencouraged her to buy heverything she hadmired, so that the bill amounted
                  to a undred pounds.
               "When the goods were ready, the footman took them to the coach, and the count
                  wrote a draft hon his banker for the hamount. I was werry much hembarrassed, for
                  Mrs. Snubs had told me to take nothing but gold or silver; and I told im I oped he
                  would hexcuse me on that account. 'Perfectly right,' said he; 'my servant shall
                  take the draft and get the gold, and we will wait. I felt werry much hembarrassed,
                  but lady Flipperton said to the count, 'My dear, there is a undred guineas in the
                  pocket of the coach, that Dobson paid for rent this morning. You left it hon the
                  table, and I ordered hit put hin the coach for safety.' 'My dear,' said he, 'you
                  are hover careful; but it's lucky just now.' So he sends for the bag, and counts
                  hout ninety guineas to pay the bill, and gave me two more; one, as he said, for my
                  good looks,—I was young then,—and the other for my good behavior.
               "Just then the lady asked to look at my bracelet. I held out my harm, and she
                  hunfastened the clasp, and turned to show it to the count; who praised it ighly,
                  and then she put it hon my harm again werry condescending.
               "When they went away, I was werry much pleased with making so large a sale, till
                  Mrs. Snubs came; but when she looked at the money she said it was hall false coin;
                  and, sure enough, I could ave told it for bad money in the dark, if I ad not been
                  so much hembarrassed by their genteel ways. Mrs. Snubs asked me hall habout what
                  they said and did, and when I told about the bracelet, she looked at it and said
                  they had hexchanged it and left a false one made of copper and glass; and sure
                  enough, it was so. Hon hinquiry at the police, we were hinformed that there was no
                  such lord as Count Flipperton; but they
                  took the description, but did not bring back any goods, nor money, nor my hunique
                  bracelet."
            
            
               B.
               The account of Ben Blacksmith is derived from different sources, the best known of
                  which is the protest of the officers and crew of the brig Creole, published in the
                     New Orleans Advertiser, December 8, 1841, of which the following
                  is a brief abridgment:
               "By this instrument of protest be it known that on the second day of December,
                  1841, before me Wm. Y. Lewis, notary public in the city of New Orleans, personally
                  appeared Z. C. Gifford, master of the American brig Creole, of Richmond, who
                  declared that the said brig sailed for New Orleans on the 13th day of October,
                  laden with tobacco and slaves.
               "That when about one hundred and thirty miles N. N. E. of Hole-in-the-wall, the
                  slaves rose on the officers and crew, killing one and severely wounding others,
                  including the captain and first mate.
               "The conspirators then compelled the crew, under pain of death, to navigate them
                  to a British island. Ben Blacksmith, Madison Washington, D. Ruffin, and Elijah
                  Morris, were the ringleaders. These four assumed command, and watched the compass
                  constantly by turns. So close was their watch, that it was impossible to rescue
                  the brig. When they saw Merrit mark on the slate the latitude he was taking, they
                  compelled him to rub out the writing and make only figures, for fear that they
                  might communicate by that means. The conspirators threw all the arms in the vessel
                  overboard.
               "When we made the light of Abaco, and the brig approached Nassau, the pilot came
                  on board. He and his men were all negroes. They told the slaves they were free,
                  and could not be carried away.
               "On Wednesday following, three civil magistrates came on board and set free the
                  slaves, against the protest of the captain, and gave them their wearing apparel
                  and blankets.
               "And, therefore, the appearers do solemnly protest," &c. &c.,
               Signed by officers and crew of brig Creole.
            
            
               C.
               To prevent misconception, it is proper here to repeat, that the lines attributed
                  to Margaret were really written by that lady, and also that a few of the flowers
                  of rhetoric which adorn the heads of some of the chapters were culled from
                  Lucinda's album. Except for these, and what belongs to Mrs. Simperkins and others,
                  the responsibility rests with J. B.
            
         
      
   
