
    ----CITATION----
        Bennett, Emerson, (1822-1905). The Phantom of the Forest .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5799
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE PHANTOM OF THE FOREST: 
               A TALE OF THE DARK AND BLOODY GROUND. 
             
            BY EMERSON BENNETT: AUTHOR OF "THE FORGED WILL," "PRAIRIE FLOWER," "CLARA MORELAND," "BORDER ROVER," "FOREST ROSE," "OUTLAW'S DAUGHTER," ETC. ETC. 
            AUTHOR'S REVISED EDITION. 
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               JOHN E. POTTER AND COMPANY,  
                     Nos. 614 and 617 SANSOM STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1868. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867, by EMERSON BENNETT, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. THE SCOUTS. 7
                
               CHAPTER II. THE PHANTOM. 19
                
               CHAPTER III. THE VOYAGERS. 28
                
               CHAPTER IV. THE DEADLY QUARREL. 43
                
               CHAPTER V. THE DECOY. 62
                
               CHAPTER VI. INTO THE WILDERNESS. 74
                
               CHAPTER VII. TURNING ASIDE. 89
                
               CHAPTER VIII. THE TEMPEST. 102
                
                
               CHAPTER IX. FLIGHT AND PURSUIT. 116
                
               CHAPTER X. NIGHT WANDERING. 128
                
               CHAPTER XI. THE WHITE INDIAN. 140
                
               CHAPTER XII. NEW TROUBLES. 155
                
               CHAPTER XIII. CONTINUED FLIGHT. 170
                
               CHAPTER XIV. THE LAST FLIGHT AND CAPTURE. 183
                
               CHAPTER XV. THE RENEGADE AND HIS FRIENDS. 198
                
               CHAPTER XVI. CAPTORS AND CAPTIVES. 216
                
               CHAPTER XVII. THE REGULAR TRAIN. 233
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. MORE BRUTALITY. 248
                
               CHAPTER XIX. THE PHANTOM IN CAMP. 263
                
                
               CHAPTER XX. THE SAVAGE DECREE. 278
                
               CHAPTER XXI. THE DOUBLE ESCAPE. 293
                
               CHAPTER XXII. A STRANGE MEETING. 309
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. GATHERING TO DOOM. 329
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. THE LIVING AND THE DEAD. 346
                
               CHAPTER XXV. THE FIENDS TRIUMPH. 357
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND. 371
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. GAINING FREEDOM. 381
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. THE BACK TRAIL. 397
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. OVER THE CLIFF. 417
                
               CHAPTER XXX. HOPE IN DESPAIR. 438
                
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. STERN RETRIBUTION. 452
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. THE MYSTERY SOLVED. 472
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. CONCLUSION. 488
                
             
          
       
      
         
            The phantom of the forest 
             
            THE PHANTOM OF THE FOREST. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE SCOUTS. 
               PROBABLY no region of the globe ever presented more attractions to the genuine hunter and lover of the backwoods, than the territory known as Kentucky previous to its settlement by the race that now holds possession of its soil. Its location, happily intermediate between the extremes of heat and cold, afforded a most congenial climate; its surface was diversified by steep hills and deep valleys, stupendous cliffs and marshy levels, dense woods and flowery glades, immense caverns and tangled brakes, large streams and wonderful licks; and hither came all the beasts of the forest, to roam in unrestrained freedom through wilds seldom trod by human feet, and gay-plumed songsters from every region swept along the balmy air and made the sylvan retreats ring with their silvery strains. When first discovered by the white man, no human beings claimed ownership of this enchanting land. The red man of the North, and the red man of the South, came here to hunt and fight; but the victor bore off his spoils, and the vanquished quished went back in dismay, and neither put up his wigwam on the neutral ground. For years after its discovery by the white man, Kentucky could not boast a hundred of the race within its borders; but then the tide of emigration set in strongly toward this western land of promise, and a few years more beheld its broad surface dotted here and there with the rude fortresses and dwellings of incipient civilization. Every step forward, however, was marked with blood. The red man was jealous of the white, and there was for a long period an almost continuous, fierce, and sanguinary struggle for the mastery; while the midnight yells, the wailing shrieks and the burning homes, too often proclaimed the horrid work of death and desolation. 
               The middle period between the first discovery of Kentucky and that happy time when the savage hordes of the North no longer found their way within her limits, is the one we have chosen for the opening of our story. At this time there was a number of established forts or stations in different sections, some of which had been sorely tried by long, fierce sieges, and all of which had been more or less attacked; and there was a still larger number of solitary block-houses and ordinary log-cabins scattered over the country, the owners and inmates of which had boldly ventured upon the chances of living and cultivating their lands beyond the protecting power of a collected body of their fellow-beings. The Indians, in large and small parties, had made frequent incursions sions within the limits occupied by the settlers, sometimes with success and sometimes with defeat, and there was no telling what moment they might again appear and assail those who had thus far escaped discovery and harm. Such in brief was the general condition of the country at the time we present to notice the opening scene of our drama of life. 
               On a calm and beautiful day, just after the heats of summer had been succeeded by the cooler and more bracing airs of autumn, two men, in the garb of border hunters, were pushing their way through a dense thicket of cane, in what is now one of the northeastern counties of Kentucky. There was no path through this brake, the cane of which was at least twelve feet high, and grew so close that our adventurers were forced to part the stalks with their hands to make a passage for their bodies. For something like an hour they toiled on in this manner, with scarcely a word being exchanged, when they suddenly emerged into an open wood, where the ground, clear of bushes and vines, presented a beautiful carpet of green grass and bright flowers, and the trees, in orchard-like regularity, stretched upward their huge trunks, interlocked their heavy branches, and spread deeply over all a delightful canopy of leaves. 
               "There," exclaimed the younger of the two, as he made a nimble leap from the canebrake into the open wood, and threw out his arms and brought down the breech of his rifle with an air of satisfaction tion, "thank Heaven, I have got where I can breathe again! Ah! what a beautiful, enchanting place!" he added, with enthusiasm, as his quick, bright eye took in the scene; "a regular Eden! Tom, I must make a sketch of it!" 
               "You'd better make tracks out on't!" growled the other, as he went stalking forward in the most unromantic manner possible. "You want to sketch everything you see, and some day you'll hev a bloody savage sketch off the top of your head." 
               "Bah!" cried the younger, with a slight pout of his lips and a roguish twinkle of his bright blue eyes; "there is no more poetry in you, Tom, than there is in a possum!" 
               "Wall, don't a possum know all as natur' wanted him to?" queried Tom, half-facing round, but still stalking onward. 
               "I suppose so," smiled the other. 
               "Then whar's the use?" returned the woodman, with a satisfied grunt. "I spect picturs and poetry is well enough in thar places, in some old finiky settlement, whar they sleep in feather-beds and git skeered at thar shadders; but out yere they're no more use nor wings is to tadpoles." 
               "That is your sage opinion, Tom!" replied the young man, with a good-natured smile; "but, fortunately for me, everybody don't think as you do. Different people have different tastes and educations." 
               "Wall, I never had any edication," rejoined Tom, with an air of simplicity, "'cept what I picked up in the woods; and whar's the use? I had a tomahawk for a plaything when I war a baby, and a rifle for a bed-feller; and when I growed up along, I larnt to use 'em on beasts and Injuns. I kin hunt, fish, row, trail Injuns and steal hosses; I can tell a skunk from a beaver, a persimmon tree from a white-oak, a turkey-buzzard from a chicken, and what more d'ye want? One man can't know everything, I spect." 
               "Of course not," laughed the other; "and I suppose I like you quite as well as if you were filled with poetry and romance, and went into ecstasies over every beautiful scene in nature. The fact is, as I'm something of an enthusiast, I suppose it wouldn't do for me to have a companion like myself out here in this Indian country!" 
               "Not ef you spect to keep your head on your shoulders, and your ha'r on top on't, Harry Colburn!" rejoined the other, with a broad grin. 
               While thus conversing, the elder continued to lead the way, with long and rapid strides, as if anxious to reach some given point at a certain time, and the younger followed on a few paces behind him. The route pursued led directly through the open wood, then down into a deep, rocky hollow, through which flowed a rapid, roaring streamlet, and then up a bush-covered ridge to a ledge of rocks that crowned its summit, and from which the eye took in a range of diversified country, filled with picturesque and beautiful scenes. 
               "Oh, Tom," cried the younger, as he leaped upon the highest rock, "I don't care what you say, but I'm going to make a sketch here if I die for it. Take a seat, Mr. Sturgess, and make yourself comfortable for a few minutes, and then I'll positively agree not to bother you again to-day." 
               "Wall," returned the other, eying the young man with a rough kind of fondness, such as an indulgent father sometimes bestows upon a spoiled child, "I spect you'll hev your way in spite of me; but remember, ef we don't git to the place in time, and anything haps to the colonel's darter, the fault arn't mine-for this he-yar makes the tenth time you've stopped for pictur' fooleries sence we left the station!" 
               "That is true!" rejoined the young artist, half disposed to thrust back into the deep pocket of his hunting-shirt the drawing materials he had already brought forth. "But then," he added, as he threw his eyes over the beautiful landscape, "I'll just make a rough sketch, to fill up from memory, and will only keep you a few minutes." 
               With this he commenced his work, moving his pencil in a very rapid manner over the paper. While he is thus employed, and the rough woodman is impatiently waiting, we will take occasion to briefly describe the personal appearance, and say a word of the early history of both. 
               Henry Colburn, the young artist, was a tall, slender, well-formed young man of two-and-twenty. He had long, light hair, that fell gracefully down around his neck and shoulders, dark blue eyes, and a very animated, intelligent, prepossessing countenance. If anything, his smooth, almost beardless face, was rather too effeminate for manly beauty; yet the thin, well-chiselled nose, firm-set mouth, close, compressed lips, and round, prominent chin, denoted unusual strength of character, and, taken in connection with his broad, noble forehead, and clear, soul-beaming eye, bespoke the high-toned principles, resolution and courage of the innate gentleman-for indeed men are born gentlemen, just the same as they are born poets, artists, or musicians. There was enthusiasm in the young man, and a deep love of nature in all her many forms-from the holy beauty of a glorious sunset, to the sublime grandeur of the thundering storm-from the placid quiet of the dreamy lake, to the deafening roar of the mighty cataract-from the level plain of billowy grain, or waving blade and flower, to the rugged steeps of towering mountain and precipitous ledge. He was brimful of poetry, for his soul drew inspiration from all around him. He was as artless as a child, tender as a woman, gentle as a fawn, and yet possessed the real courage of a lion. Judging from appearance, you would have said the perilous wilderness was no place for him; and yet few there were, among the iron-nerved men of that region and time, who could equal him in bravery, or surpass him in endurance. The youngest son of a wealthy Virginian (who prided himself on his adherence to the English Crown, and believed in the right of sole inheritance for the eldest male branch), he had received a good education and little else, and had then boldly struck off into the wilderness, to carve out a fortune for himself. In company with a small, but intrepid, band of adventurers, he had travelled hundreds of miles to reach the land of promise; and during the two years which had since passed, he had roved from one extreme of the territory to the other; had mingled freely with the rough borderers, sleeping in stations and camping in forests; had hunted wild beasts; had trailed savages and fought them; and, in short, had made himself a universal favorite among a class of people whose attachments were rarely secured without merit. In his various wanderings he had fallen in with an old hunter and scout, his present companion, Thomas Sturgess by name-though more familiarly known among the borderers as Rough Tom-with whom he had been a daily companion for the last six months, and between whom and himself there existed an intimacy and bond of affection that seemed very remarkable, considering how widely opposite they were in appearance, disposition, manners, habits, mind and education. Young Henry was a poetical enthusiast-old Tom was a practical woodman. The one lived half his existence in an ideal realm-the other never lost sight of the fact that his scalp was in danger. 
               The old hunter was a far better representative of the borderers of that region than the young poet-artist. His appearance was not prepossessing. He was rising of forty years of age, and possessed a large, heavy frame, full of bone and sinew. His strength was great, and his physical endurance equal to any man living. His face was covered with a dull, reddish beard, and his long, matted hair was of a similar color. His nose was short and broad, and his mouth large, with massive jaws. His eyes were small and dark, and gleamed out through the thick, shaggy brows like two coals of fire. He was unlettered and superstitious, for his whole life had been passed in the wilderness. He was rough and uncouth in every sense of the term, and yet he had his good points, and was rather a favorite than otherwise with the settlers of Kentucky. He was always true to his friends; was a good hunter and trailer, and knew the wilderness thoroughly; was brave without being rash, and bold without being fool-hardy; was skilful, resolute, decided, energetic, and withal a good Indian hater. For the last year he had been employed by the authorities, convened at Harrod's Station, to act as Indian scout and spy along the Ohio River, for the better protection of parties coming down in boats, and to warn the more exposed settlers of any signs of savage incursion. His last instructions had been to join some five or six other scouts and spies, at a place called Limestone (now Maysville), and proceed with them to the mouth of the Great Kanawha, there to meet and act as escort to a small company of Virginians ginians, the majority of them women and children, who were coming out to unite with their relatives and make their future home in the wilderness. One of these, the daughter of a colonel who held a prominent position among the borderers, and with respect to whom the old woodman and his companion had received a special charge, was the lady he had alluded to in the conversation recorded. 
               The dress of our two adventurers was such as was usually worn by the borderers of that day-a hat of felt, a hunting-shirt of linsey-woolsey, with a broad cape gayly fringed, leggins of deer-skin, trimmed down the outer seams, and moccasins of the same material, A strong belt around the waist supported tomahawk and hunting-knife; while under the right arm was slung the powder-horn, and under the left the bullet-pouch. Across the shoulders were strapped a small knapsack and blanket, which were generally carried on a long journey like the present. Each, of course, was provided with a good rifle, for that in the wilderness was always a necessary weapon to supply the hunter with food and defend him against wild beasts and savages. 
               The few minutes asked for by the young artist had extended to an hour, and he was still busy, his eyes ever and anon glancing at the scene before him, and his pencil moving rapidly over the paper. During this time the old hunter had not disturbed him by a word; but he was now evidently becoming quite impatient-turning restlessly from side to side, looking often at the sun, and playing nervously with the lock of his rifle. At last he started to his feet, with his favorite exclamation: 
               "Whar's the use?" 
               "Only a few minutes more, Tom, my good friend!" said Henry, in a pleading tone. 
               "I spect that's till sundown!" growled the woodman. 
               "Oh, no, upon my honor! only a few minutes more!" said Henry. "See! I am almost done!" 
               "Look a he-yar, younker," rejoined Tom, "you know I hates to disturb you when you're at your finikies; but it arn't right for me to squat around doing nothing, when every minute's wanted; and though I don't like to say nothing to hurt your feelings, yet I will say, that this has got to be the last time with your sort of foolery afore we git to jine the t'other scouts, or else I'll tramp on and leave you!" 
               "Very well, Tom, this shall be the last time!" promised Henry. 
               "Wall, then, go ahead! and as I know you'll want a good hour at least, I'll jest drap down behind the hill yere, and see ef I can't strike a lettle fresh meat for supper." 
               "Ay, do, Tom, that's a good soul! and by the time you get back I'll be ready to start!" said Henry. 
               The old hunter disappeared, and the young artist went on with his sketch, his mind becoming so completely pletely absorbed with his work that the time passed by unnoticed. Had he been put under oath, he could not have told whether it was five minutes, fifteen, or thirty, after Tom left, when he heard the crack of a rifle in the direction the latter had gone. Shortly after this he was startled by a wild, prolonged shriek, that sounded as if made by the throat of a woman: He stopped and listened, but heard no more. What could it mean? Surely such a strange, fearful scream as that never issued from the lips of a man, much less from those of Tom; and if from another, did it not indicate distress, or bode danger? Thrusting his unfinished drawing into his pocket, Henry caught up his rifle, ready to assist another or defend himself, and then threw his eyes rapidly over the whole scene, but more searchingly in the direction from which the sound had reached him. His eyes rested upon rocks, hills, trees and bushes; but the only living thing he saw was a large, black bird, of the vulture species, which was lazily flapping its way above the tops of the trees in the valley below. As there was nothing for him to do till he could hear or see more, he remained for some ten or fifteen minutes on the watch, wondering over the mystery, when suddenly the old hunter made his appearance, coming up the side of the hill opposite to that of his descent. He looked like a man who had received a terrible fright, and threw himself down on a rock and drew a long breath without saying a word. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE PHANTOM. 
               "FOR Heaven's sake, Tom, what is it? what's the matter?" cried the wondering Henry, running up to him. 
               The old woodman slowly turned his eyes upon the young man, with a strange kind of stare, and said, with solemn earnestness, and a perceptible shudder: 
               "I've seed it, Harry!" 
               "Seen what?" 
               "And heerd it, too!" 
               "Heard what, Tom?" 
               "Thar's no denying it, younker, 'cept I leaves out every sense I've got!" 
               "Well, Tom, don't sit there mystifying me, but tell me at once what you've seen and heard! I heard something, too-a wild shriek, like a woman's." 
               "That's it!" cried Tom, grasping the young man's arm and glancing quickly around, as if he half expected to see some fearful apparition start up beside him; "that's it! but it warn't no woman; it warn't nothing human, nor 'arthly-no, sir, it warn't!" 
               "Do tell me, then, what it was!" 
               "Don't know, Harry," replied Tom, with a lugubrious brious face and dubious shake of the head; "and what's more, thar don't nobody. It's been seed afore, by old hunters and scouts, and al'ays fotches bad luck to them as looks on't, or hears it; but nobody can't tell what it ar'-whar it comes from, or whar it goes to!" 
               "Oh, you mean the Forest Wonder, or Demon, or Phantom, that has scared so many courageous fellows?" 
               "That's what I mean!" said Tom, emphatically. "I seed it, sir, closer to me nor I is to you, jibbering and shrieking right in my face; and how I'm yere to tell on't, ar' a special wonder and a mystery-fur though I says it myself as shouldn't, I war so skeered that it's amazing I didn't die right thar in my tracks!" 
               "Pray tell me all about it, Tom!" said Henry, glancing sharply around him, with a look that showed he was prepared for a startling narration-for though not given to all the wild, ignorant superstitions of the time, he was in a condition to admit there might be strange things happen that could not be accounted for by human philosophy. 
               Within the past year he had heard rough borderers, around their camp-fires, tell of a strange apparition, that had been seen in wild places, in the depth of the wilderness; and though he had been far from crediting all they had said concerning the wonder, or drawing the same superstitious conclusions as themselves, yet he had not been so skeptical as to suppose it was all mere imagination because he had not seen it himself. He believed there had been something seen, bearing the human form, which had suddenly and mysteriously appeared and disappeared; and now he had just had evidence, through his own sense of hearing, of some creature, with a voice like a woman's, having been near him, and he was about to have the testimony of a friend, who had both seen and heard, added to all the rest. 
               "You see," said Tom, "I war down in the valley thar, hunting so'thing for our supper, whilst you were fooling up he-yar, when my eye lit onto what I tuk for a deer, and I fired and drapped it. I didn't kill it dead, you see, and I run up and cut its throat, and then got down and went to cutting out the best part for our feed. I'd just got a nice, juicy piece tuk out and put aside, when down come the strangest thing in natur', ker wallup, right on to me and the brute, knocking me over as ef I'd been struck by a falling tree. I jumped up, thinking it war a Injun; but when I seed it, I knowed it warn't nothing human. It looked some'at like a woman, but war all kivered with scales and ha'r like a fish-" 
               "A fish don't have hair, Tom!" interrupted Henry. 
               "Wall, this critter had," went on Tom, "and eyes like coals of fire, that almost burnt into me; and sich teeth! and sich claws! the Lord be marciful! Whew! Whar's the use? I can't describe nothing. Think of the devil, and put all you kin fancy to it! Wall, sir, it pounced on to the chunk of meat that I'd cut off for our supper, and, jibbering and grinning right in my face, it gin a shriek, like ten thousand wildcats, and shot off in a streak of fire and smoke!" 
               "Where did it go to?" 
               "The Lord knows, Harry! I only knows that I come he-yar about as quick as my pins would do it." 
               "You didn't fire at it, then?" 
               "Fire! Whar's the use? My rifle warn't loaded; and ef it had ben, no ball would hev teched that Thing!" 
               "Pshaw! You were scared, Tom!" 
               "And whar's the man that wouldn't a ben, with the devil stealing his supper?" said Tom, wiping the perspiration from his forehead. "I tell you, Harry, I've ben in some ticklish fixes afore now, when I didn't spect my life was wo'th a cud of tobacker, but I never had nothing take me down like that! Say, ar' my ha'r scorched anywhar?" 
               "Not that I can perceive," smiled Henry. 
               "You needn't grin, younker," growled Tom, rather testily, "for I tell you it's a marey it warn't all burnt off, it war so infarnal hot, jest as ef a ball of lightning had whirled round my head! Now I think on't, I believe I smelt brimstone!" 
               "Tom, you go too far," said Henry, gravely. "I am prepared to admit you saw something frightful, but I am not so sure the apparition was supernatural. Might it not have been some kind of a beast resembling a human being? something like those I've read about inhabiting the wilds of Africa? a large baboon, for instance?" 
               "Woofh!" exclaimed Tom, contemptuously; "ef thar war any flesh and blood about the Thing, d'ye s'pose I'd a got skeered at it?" 
               "But it carried off flesh and blood, Tom, according to your own account, and what do you suppose a hobgoblin would want with a chunk of deer-meat?" 
               "I don't know, younker-I didn't ax no questions. Whar's the use? How do you spect a animal would have jumped down from the skies, like that did?" 
               "Were there no trees around you?" 
               "Wall, what of 'em?" 
               "Could it not have leaped down from one of them?" 
               "Thar's no use talking to you!" cried Tom, rather angrily, springing up and beginning to load his rifle-a precaution he had so far neglected. "You're good on pictur's and gineral finikies, but I knows a beaver from a buffaler, or a stump-tailed dorg from a hole in the ground!" 
               Henry made no immediate reply, and nothing more was said till Rough Tom had finished reloading his rifle. 
               "I should like to see the spot where this strange Thing made its appearance!" said Henry, at length. 
               "Foller me, then!" returned the other; "for I'll jest go back thar with any man as lives-though I'd rather face a half a dozen Shawnees nor see it ag'in!" 
               "Did you not say it was bad luck to see or hear this strange Creature?" queried the young artist, as the two carefully picked their way down the hill. 
               "Yes, that's what they say!" was the answer. "Thar war Jim Turner and Bill Sproats as seed it, about six months ago, down on the Salt; and Jim he got killed and sculped the next week; and Bill tuk the measles and haint ben well sence. Then thar war one-legged Pete, as seed it down at Big Bone Lick; and the next day he war chased by Injuns, and had a tight dodge for 't, and the week arter he war nigh killed by a wounded stag that turned on him. Then thar war Ephe Sikes, as-But whar's the use? We'll hev so'thing orful arter it, sure! I wouldn't wonder now ef I'd run into the Shawnees, tumble over a precipice, or cotch the smallpox!" 
               When Rough Tom and his companion reached the spot where the former had killed the deer, not a particle of the carcass was to be seen. 
               "Thar it lay," said the old woodman, with an air of solemn mystery, as he pointed to some blood on the ground, "and I war right atop on't, when the-the-Thing pounced down!" 
               "I see! from that large tree right above?" 
               "Spect thar is a tree thar," returned Tom, rubbing his eyes, as if to remove all doubts, "though I'd a swore it war all clean sky." 
                
               "And doubtless you would be willing to swear to many things that are not exactly gospel!" returned the other. "Well, the deer is gone, you see! and, my life on it, whatever took it away was of flesh and blood! Can't we trail it, Tom? See! here is the print of a human foot!" 
               "You kin, ef you want to go off in a blaze of brimstone!" growled Tom; "but I wouldn't trail it fur all you're wo'th, or ever spects to be-no, sir! Come! whar's the use? Let's put off, and git as fur as we kin from this place afore sundown!" 
               "Lead on, then!" rejoined the young man; and, without any further words, the old hunter pushed into the nearest thicket, and went forward, with long and rapid strides-the other, as was his custom, following close behind him. 
               Just as the sun was setting, and they were thinking about a place to camp for the night, some three or four deer came bounding past. Quick as thought, the old woodman had his rifle to his shoulder and the trigger pulled-but the piece missed fire. 
               "I knowed it," he said, with a mysterious shake of his head; "it all comes of that cussed Phantom! and I shouldn't wonder ef we starved to death!" 
               "Look to your priming, Tom, and don't let the Phantom take away all your wits!" said Henry, half vexed and half amused at the whimsical superstitions of the other. "If you go on this way at every trifle, you will not be fit for the woods, but only for some feather-bed settlement, as you say!" 
                
               "Not a single kernal in he-yar," said Tom, as he opened the pan of his rifle, "and I know I filled it." 
               "Well, then, put some in, and be ready for the next time!" rejoined Henry. "I'm sorry you missed fire, for I'm as hungry as a bear, and I'm afraid we shall not get another shot to-day." 
               "Thar's a lettle jerked meat left," said Tom, "and we'll hev to put up with that. I wouldn't wonder ef that cussed Thing had bewitched this old rifle so's she'll never go off ag'in." 
               "If it won't go off any other way, you can carry it off!" laughed Henry. 
               "Woofh!" grunted Tom; "whar's the use?" 
               It was vexatious to think they had twice missed a good supper, but there was no help for it now, and they were obliged to camp and put up with the food they carried in their knapsacks. They selected a dry spot, on the side of a hill, near a spring of good water, but did not kindle a fire, as they had nothing to cook, and the weather was not cold enough to render it necessary. Although Tom was full of evil predictions, nothing occurred through the night to disturb them, and at the first streak of day they got up and resumed their journey. Before noon they came upon a bear digging roots, and Tom told his companion that if it were not for his rifle being bewitched he could kill the animal easily enough. 
               "Suppose you try it, at all events!" said Henry. 
               "I will," returned the other, bringing his piece to his shoulder as he spoke, "ef only to show you it arn't of no use." 
               He pulled the trigger, and, to his great astonishment, a sharp report followed, and the bear dropped. 
               This success in a great measure restored the spirits of the old woodman. 
               "Thar arn't no spell on't now," he said, with a grim smile, "and the critter went down like old times." 
               The bear, though not killed outright, was speedily dispatched; and our adventurers started a fire, toasted slices of the meat, and made a hearty meal. They took off the skin of the beast, and carried it with them, and also a portion of the carcass, to serve them for the two following meals. They made a long journey that day, passed the night without mishap, and, by noon of the day following, reached in safety the hills overlooking the fort at Limestone, on the Ohio River, where they soon after joined the hardy men who were to accompany them on their journey to the mouth of the Great Kanawha. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE VOYAGERS. 
               AT the period of which we are writing, much of the emigration from Virginia into Kentucky came down the Great Kanawha in boats to the Ohio, down the Ohio to Limestone (now Maysville), and thence went into the interior by land. This was one of the best routes for easy transportation of goods and chattels, but was very dangerous, owing to the fact that the Indians held possession of the territory stretching away from the northern bank of the Ohio, and were generally on the watch to decoy, ambush and attack such parties as they considered inferior to themselves in strength or numbers. For decoys they had white men and women and even children-some of them prisoners, who served them on compulsion, a death of torture being the penalty for refusing to act in the manner directed-and some of them renegades-villains who had fled from justice to the savages for protection-traitors to humanity-who thus took a fiendish delight in wreaking vengeance upon all of their nation and race. Their mode of proceeding was well calculated to deceive all but the most experienced and wary. As some boat would be quietly floating down the placid river, in the peaceful stillness of a lovely day, a cry of distress would suddenly be heard from the northern shore, and a man or woman, half naked, as if his or her clothes had been rent to tatters by a hurried escape through the thickets and brambles of the wilderness, would immediately appear on the edge of the stream, and, in the most piteous tones, implore to be taken on board, declaring that he or she was in a famishing condition, in peril of recapture, and, if left there without succor, would certainly perish. It was very trying to the most experienced and cautious to resist these appeals for the aid which could so easily be rendered-for white captives did sometimes so escape, and their cries of distress were terrible realities-but whenever their human hearts yielded to the calls for mercy, in nine cases out of ten their boat was captured by a concealed band of savages the moment it touched the shore, and themselves were either murdered on the spot, or stripped and plundered and reserved for a more horrible fate. It is true that a few wretched prisoners were at different times thus rescued through the humanity of the descending boatmen; but for every life so preserved, at least twenty were sacrificed by the wily savages, who were generally lying in ambush and using the whites for decoys. To such an extent in fact was this nefarious practice carried out, that for years before the final treaty of peace at Greenville, no descending boat, under the pilotage or control of an experienced manager, would venture to land under any circumstances whatever; and thus more than one poor, wretched wanderer, whose appeals for succor were no counterfeits, was left to perish unaided, and perhaps curse the supposed heartlessness of men and women who seemed to turn a deaf ear to his prayers. 
               When our scouts, seven in number, including the young artist, reached the mouth of the Great Kanawha-which they did a few days after their meeting at Limestone, without incident worthy of note-they learned from the garrison at Point Pleasant that the party they were to escort had not yet come down the river. In fact the expected boats did not make their appearance for nearly a week. They were three in number-one loaded with passengers, another with goods, and the third with horses. There were in all-men, women and children, blacks and whites-thirty-one souls, with ages ranging from seventy years down to the infant of a few months. There were twenty females, including three black slaves and seven children; and eleven males, including two stout negroes and three half-grown boys. 
               With most of these individuals we have only to do in a general way. They were travelling into the wilderness, to meet friends and relatives who had gone there in advance of them to make permanent homes, and in only so much as they chanced to move in contact with the more prominent characters in our drama of life will they be mentioned at all. 
               Among these latter, however, was one who deserves immediate attention at our hands. She was a young lady, in the fresh bloom of nineteen summers, of a slender, graceful form, an intelligent, vivacious countenance, and a dark expressive, and somewhat merry eye. Her features were regular, and her complexion almost a brunette. In repose her face was sweet and pretty; but when animated, with her bright soul gleaming out in every lineament, it was perfectly bewitching. In look, language, and manner, she possessed a wonderful power of pleasing, and she knew it. There was nothing more attractive than her pretty mouth, with its full, round, half-parted lips-nothing more charming than her smile-nothing more musical than her laugh. She might have been a coquette, only that at heart she had too much principle to trifle or deceive by design; but she was young, lively, and fond of admiration; and if this combination sometimes led to the same result, all the facts should be taken into consideration before the passing of a severe judgment. She was the only daughter of a man of some political distinction, who had held the rank of colonel in the American army during the war of the Revolution, which had just closed. Her mother had died while she was a mere child, and her only brother had been killed at the battle of Brandywine. A maiden aunt had brought her up with strict propriety, and looked well to her education; but death had also removed this kind lady about a year before the opening of our narrative, and she was now on her way into the wilderness to join her father, who had resolved to make his future home in the heart of Kentucky, and cast his lot with the people of the borders. She was attended by an old negress, who had been her nurse and was now her housekeeper; and by a young one, who had been her playmate and was now her handmaid; and so much did these servants love their young mistress, that either would have died for her. By her companions of the voyage, most of whom were persons of inferior condition in life, she was spoken of with envy or admiration, according to their different natures and dispositions, but always as one with whom they did not claim equality of station. Such in brief was Isaline Holcombe, the fair personage more than once alluded to by Rough Tom as the colonel's daughter. 
               As the foremost boat, containing the passengers, rounded up to the landing at Point Pleasant, Isaline was standing, with her two black girls beside her, on what might properly be styled the upper deck of the rude craft, her bright eyes cast about her with a look of curiosity and cheerful animation. 
               "Has we got dar now, Miss Isa?" inquired the old nurse, as she straightened up her short, squat figure, puffed out her thick lips, showed her white teeth, and displayed the whites of her large, rolling eyes on an ebony back-ground in a rather comical manner. 
               "If you mean our destination, Cilla, we are not half way there," good-naturedly answered her pretty young mistress. 
               "Spect dat's what I does mean," returned the negress, with a look that showed she was not altogether certain about the signification of the word. 
               "Some people axes a great many foolish questions in de course ob dar lives," put in the younger negress, a rather pretty mulatto, with a toss of her head that showed she laid claim to a decided superiority over the other. 
               "And some people minds dar own businesses, and doesn't trouble dar betters wid obserwations!" retorted Cilla, with a fierce look of defiance. 
               "The imperdence of some people-" began the younger, when her mistress interrupted her with: 
               "Come, come, Rhoda-and you, too, Priscilla-no more wrangling-I'll not have it! See that young man yonder, with his back against a tree and a paper in his hand, his hat thrown up from his forehead and his rifle by his side-what is he doing?" 
               "Sketching!" said a low, clear, bell-like voice. 
               Isaline started, with a slight flush, turned, and confronted a young man, who had stolen up behind her unperceived. He was perhaps five-and-twenty years of age, of a fine, symmetrical form, and wore a dress which, though in border style, was of finer materials than were generally seen in the backwoods at that period. His hat had a gay feather in it, and was looped up with silver fastenings; his hunting-frock, of bottle-green, was of cloth which had come from beyond the seas; his breeches were of the finest-dressed deer-skin; his belt was worked with wampum in fanciful devices; his hunting-knife was silver mounted; his leggins were ornamented with the quills of the porcupine; and he wore shoes, instead of moccasins, of shiny leather, which were adorned with silver buckles. His hands were soft, and two of his fingers sparkled with rings. In every respect he was a handsome man, with regular features, dark, curly hair, dark, expressive eyes, a slightly aquiline nose, and a perfect mouth; and yet, with all his manly beauty, there was a something, it was difficult to say what, which excited a secret feeling of dread, or fear, or distrust-some such feeling, in fact, as one might be supposed to experience under the fascinations of a serpent. You felt drawn to him, and yet repelled at the same time. You fancied that, however brilliant his intellect, there might be dark recesses in his soul, which human penetration could not fathom. You felt that he might dazzle-excite your wonder-your admiration, perhaps-but could never win your love. Who was he? and what was his history? No one knew beyond what he had told of himself. For the past year he had been a resident of the quiet village in Virginia where Isaline Holcombe had been born and reared. He had come there a stranger, and given his name as Charles Hampton, from England, the third son of an English lord. By birth and means he had claimed to be a gentleman, travelling partly for pleasure and partly with the view of purchasing a property and settling permanently in America. His finished manners and show of wealth had made him an object of interest to the higher classes, and he had been cordially received on his own representation and given the entre of the best society. Among other ladies of note he had met Isaline, and paid her much attention. Some thought him a suitor for her hand. Perhaps he was. At all events, no sooner had it been made known that she was to go West, to meet her father and there remain, than he had announced it as his intention of trying his fortune in the wilderness also. Uniting with those who were preparing for the same journey, he had made suitable purchases and arrangements, and was now so far on his way into the wild region of peril. Of the state of affairs between him and Isaline, it is only necessary to say that, possessing the fascinations of the coquette, though with far higher principle, she had already, young as she was, won many a heart without yet losing her own. 
               "I was not aware, Mr. Hampton," said Isaline, with rather marked emphasis, as she turned upon him with a slightly flushed face, "that I was putting my question to you! If you had a heavier foot, your approach might be oftener heard!" 
               "I trust I have given you no offence, Miss Holcombe!" he said, with a perceptible flush on his own dark features. 
               "Offence may be too strong a term," she answered, with dignity; "but sudden surprises are not always agreeable." 
               "I crave your pardon, then! and if I had a pair of hob-nails, I would put them on and stumble my way up to you!" returned Hampton, with such serio-comic earnestness that Isaline, with the ridiculous picture forming in her mind, burst into a hearty laugh. 
               "I forgive you, Sir Knight of the 'Clouted Brogues!'" she cried. "But what of that fellow yonder? who is he? and what is he sketching?" 
               "Who he is, is more than I know," replied Hampton; "and, saving your presence, more than I care to know: some country bumpkin, no doubt, who knows how to handle his rifle better than his pencil, and his axe and hoe better than either. From his manner of looking and working, I judge he is trying to make a rough sketch of this boat and its motley passengers; but as we just now happen to be the most conspicuous figures of the group, I hope we may not be made to resemble either sheep, or cows, or even respectable bears!" 
               Isaline laughed merrily; and tapping her old nurse on the shoulder, she said: 
               "That man is drawing your likeness, Cilla. Only think of your being mistaken for a cow!" 
               "'Fore Heaben, Miss Isa, he shan't make no sich critter of dis chile!" cried the black, rolling her eyes angrily, and hurrying away, with the graceful waddle of a goose. 
                
               "And what say you to it, Rhoda?" 
               "Oh, I'm not a bit skeered!" replied the waiting-maid, pouting her lips in derision. 
               As the boat drew up to the landing, quite a large group of men, women and children, consisting of the scouts and the inmates of the fort, collected on the bank, to meet and exchange civilities with the voyagers; and in a very short time they were promiscuously mingled-a part from the shore leaping on board the boat, and a number from the boat springing upon the land. Some from both parties had met before, and these greeted each other like old friends, and there was a general feeling of cordiality among all, for such was the direct simplicity of the backwoods, where the freezing formality of fashionable usage was either not understood or wholly disregarded. 
               Among the foremost to leap aboard the boat was Rough Tom, whose manner was that of a man having authority. 
               "Whar's the colonel's darter?" was his first inquiry, as he elbowed his way among the crowd. 
               Some one directed him to where Isaline was still standing, in company with Hampton, an amused and interested spectator of what was taking place, and the next minute he was by her side. Her grace and beauty, to say nothing of her dress, seemed to take him a little by surprise, and cause him more embarrassment than he had expected to feel; but he was naturally too blunt and straightforward to hesitate tate long about addressing any one with whom he had business. Doffing his hat, and making a rude bow-a remarkable act of polite gallantry on his part-he said: 
               "And so you're Colonel Holcombe's darter, hey?" 
               "I have the honor so to be!" returned Isaline, with polite dignity and an inquiring look. 
               "Ye-es," drawled the old woodman, fumbling with his hat, and looking directly into her face, with a kind of rude admiration, "I didn't 'spect to see quite so purty a gal." 
               "Well, man, what is your business with this young lady?" spoke up Hampton, in a haughty tone, with a flush of anger, as if he felt there was an insult offered to one whom it was his duty to protect. 
               Rough Tom turned his gaze from Isaline to the speaker, and coolly and deliberately surveyed him from head to foot and from foot to head. Then a sullen frown settled on his brow, and there was a good deal of contempt in his words, as he said: 
               "What's that to you?" 
               "Everything, fellow, since I claim to be this lady's protector!" quickly answered Hampton, with a flash of angry defiance. 
               "Who gin you the right?" 
               "That is my business, fellow!" 
               "Wall," growled old Tom, with a grin of contempt, "ef she don't hev nothing better'n sich a popified monkey as you to purtect her through the wilderness, her sculp won't be wo'th a possum's tail to her in a week!" 
               "Fellow, you are insolent, and don't seem to know you are addressing a gentleman!" said Hampton, his temper almost getting the better of his dignity. 
               Tom gave a loud, contemptuous laugh; and then suddenly changing his appearance and manner to one of startling ferocity, he stepped forward, shook his finger in Hampton's face, and said in a low, but terribly impressive, tone: 
               "See he yar, strannger-you don't seem to know that you're talking to a man that kin jest turn you inside out, like the skin of a eel, and arter that ram you down your own throat!" 
               "Physically, I admit, you are my superior," returned Hampton, with a somewhat quailing eye, and placing one hand on the haft of his knife; "but you will please bear in mind there are weapons that can make up for the lack of bodily strength!" 
               "Is it fight, strannger?" demanded the old woodman, with a convulsive clutch of his rifle. 
               "No, not here, by any means!" cried Isaline, who now seemed to think it time to interfere. 
               "I axes your pardon, marm, for gitting my mad up for this slinking finiky, and overlooking your sweet face! but you see, marm, when he begun to poke his nose in 'twixt me and you, it fotched up the devil in me as big as a catermount, and I forgot myself. I've come straight from your father, marm, and brung you a letter from him!" 
                
               "My father!" cried Isaline, with an expression of eager delight; "oh, I'm so glad! Quick! tell me-how is he? what did he say? where is the letter?" 
               "Wall, that I haint got about me-Harry Colburn, my pardner, tuk charge of that." 
               "Who is he? and where is he?" almost impatiently demanded Isaline. 
               "He's a gintleman, full-blooded, and none of your monkey make-believes!" replied old Tom, with a contemptuous glance toward the scowling Hampton; "but whar he ar', that's another thing-though, wharsomever he ar', I'll bet a deer-skin agin a charge of powder he's spyling paper with a pictur!" 
               "Is he an artist, then?" said Isaline. 
               "So'thing like that I believe they calls it." 
               "Perhaps that is him yonder, then, by that tree?" 
               "As sure as shooting!" cried Tom, looking in the direction indicated: "I knowed it!" 
               "Oh, call him hither, at once-I am so anxious to get the letter from my father!" said Isaline. 
               Tom shouted the name of his young companion, in a tone loud enough to be heard a mile. Henry looked up. 
               "He-yar!" continued the scout; "the colonel's darter wants yer!" 
               The young man looked steadily at the boat for a few moments, and then, putting aside his drawings, hurried down to the landing and came aboard. As he approached Isaline, he, like the old woodman, seemed struck with her air and beauty, and a modest blush mantled his handsome face. Isaline greeted him with one of her sweetest smiles. 
               "Your friend here tells me," she said, "you bring me a letter from my dear father!" 
               "If I have the honor of addressing Colonel Holcombe's daughter!" returned Henry, lifting his hat, with a graceful bow. 
               Isaline bowed assent, with another fascinating smile, and the other immediately produced the missive, with its large red seal and gay ribbon. Isaline eagerly opened it, and for the next five minutes remained completely absorbed with its contents. While she was so engaged, Rough Tom drew Henry aside and conversed with him in low tones; and Charles Hampton, with a dark frown on his brow, paced moodily to and fro, with his eyes fixed on the deck, as if brooding over the insult he had so recently received. 
               "Thanks for good news, my friends-for so I see, by my father's sanction, I am entitled to call you!" at length exclaimed Isaline, addressing the scouts. "You are named in the letter as Thomas Sturgess and Henry Colburn, and I am desired to put all confidence in you, and to consider myself completely under your charge!" 
               "Tom Sturgess-Rough Tom-that that's me!" said the old woodman; "and with the colonel's own hand-write for me to see you safe through the wilderness, I'd jest like to know who's got arything to say agin it!" and he glanced triumphantly and defiantly at Hampton, who seemed to scowl more darkly, but without lifting his eyes. 
               "I am most proud and happy to be one assigned to so pleasant a duty!" said Henry Colburn, turning his gaze upon the fair girl with an admiring blush. 
               Their eyes met, and in that moment something passed between the souls of each which neither had experienced before. By a simultaneous impulse, both silently turned their glances aside and encountered the dark, fiery orbs of Charles Hampton, and both felt that in the same minute of time they had looked upon the good and evil of their future destiny. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE DEADLY QUARREL. 
               THE voyage of our adventurers down the Ohio River was, to some of them, comparatively pleasant, and to others quite the reverse. The scouts took charge of the boats so far as to direct their movements. At night they generally drew near the Kentucky shore and anchored in still water, but no one except an experienced woodman was permitted to land. Their progress was necessarily slow, but safety rather than speed was the object of those in command. 
               It could not be otherwise than that the acquaintance of Henry and Isaline, begun and continued under the circumstances we have mentioned, should ripen into intimacy far more speedily than would have been the case in an ordinary state of affairs. There was something congenial in their natures; both were young, educated, and refined; to both the world was full of beauty, poetry, and romance; they were bound together by general interests and general perils; and there was an absence of that restraint imposed by formal society, and the cold, watchful care of calculating guardians. Thus thrown together, with many an hour for uninterrupted rupted conversation, a few days brought them to a knowledge of each other which months might not have effected under the usual conditions of conventional society. 
               Of the two, however, it may not be amiss to say that Henry was the most direct, earnest, single-minded and sincere. We have before remarked that, though not at heart a coquette, there was a certain want of steady balance in the nature of Isaline that permitted a strong leaning that way-an insecurity of youth and general love of admiration that inclined her ear to what a sounder or perhaps a more mature judgment would have rejected. She was disposed to rejoice in an extreme admiration rising almost to the strength of a passion, for which she had no adequate reciprocity of feeling; and while she was one to exact all and wholly the love of him to whom she was most inclined, she was ready to claim the right of dividing her own affections among as many as her caprice might choose. Thus far she had never met another who had made on her so profound an impression, had so completely filled the void of her soul, as the young roving hunter and artist; and yet her manner was such as to give his handsome rival, against whom the instincts of her nature secretly revolted, almost as much encouragement as himself. 
               Of course there was no friendship, nor even show of friendship, between two such opposite natures, brought together under such circumstances, as Charles Hampton and Henry Colburn. They had been formally introduced to each other by Isaline, who had playfully remarked, that, as she regarded both as her lawful protectors and defenders, she hoped they would henceforth be companions and friends. Both had bowed civilly but coldly, had exchanged a few common-place remarks, and had scarcely spoken since. Being both on the same boat, and coming in contact with the same lady, they had often been compelled to meet; but either a cold, haughty bow, or a studied disregard of the presence of the other, had invariably been the result. Of course Isaline had not failed to perceive this mutual dislike; but she had apparently taken no notice of it, dividing her attentions between the two as if she had thought them the best of friends. Hampton, however, had gradually become moody, discontented and peevish. He was not popular among the passengers and crew, and he knew it. Though no further words had passed between him and Rough Tom, the latter had not failed to express his opinion of him in the most contemptuous language; and among his companions, and men of that class, the opinions of the old woodman always carried a good deal of weight. 
               Such was the state of affairs, when, on a calm, pleasant day, as the three boats were quietly floating down the river-the one containing the passengers a few feet in advance of the others-a large bird, of very bright, many-colored plumage, came flying over the foremost, on its way from the Ohio to the Kentucky shore. 
               "Oh, how beautiful!" exclaimed Isaline, who, with many others, including Hampton and Colburn, was standing on the deck: "how I wish its bright feathers were mine!" 
               "And so they shall be!" said Hampton, catching up his silver-mounted rifle, which was leaning against a box, within a few feet of his hand, and firing with a quick aim. 
               Apparently the bird was either slightly touched, or sensibly felt the wind of the ball-for it made a quick dart downward, of some fifty feet, and then seemed to increase its speed in the same horizontal direction as before. 
               "A miss is as good as a mile!" said Isaline, turning playfully to Hampton. 
               As she spoke, there was another sharp crack-this time from the rifle of Henry, who had seized his weapon and fired with as quick an aim as the other-and the gay bird, checked suddenly in its flight by the swift messenger of death, dropped lead-like down upon the water. There was a light skiff fastened to the boat, and in less than a minute the lithe form of young Colburn was seen standing in this and using the paddle with the grace and skill of a French voyageur. Gliding round his prize, he seized and held it up in triumph, amid the plaudits of the spectators; and almost the next minute he was back again upon the deck, and at the side of the flattered beauty. 
               "Permit me the honor, fair lady," he said, in a gay tone, "of laying my beautiful trophy at your feet!" 
               Before Isaline could reply, Charles Hampton stepped quickly forward, with a pale face, burning eye, and quivering lip, and, in a marked and sneering tone, said: 
               "A questionable trophy, Miss Holcombe! since, as you are aware, it was only obtained by robbing another of his right!" 
               Henry flushed to the temples, and his clear blue eye had a peculiar gleam, as he rejoined: 
               "Miss Holcombe and all others will bear me witness, that I only robbed the bird of a life it was bearing away unharmed from the bullet of an uncertain marksman!" 
               "It is false!" cried Hampton; "it was my ball alone that killed the bird!" 
               "It requires a wonderful conceit to think so!" said Colburn. 
               "It requires only the truth, to which you are a stranger!" retorted Hampton, quivering with suppressed passion. 
               "Sir," said the young artist, advancing to his rival and speaking in a low, determined tone, "these are insults only to be borne in the presence of ladies!" 
               "Which I will repeat when there are no such reasons for a lack of manhood!" rejoined Hampton, with an expression that might well have become a fiend. 
               "Come, come, gentlemen," said Isaline, beginning to grow alarmed, "there must be no quarrelling here! Already I regret the expression of a wish which has given an occasion for angry words!" 
               "The angels above are not more innocent of any wrong intent than yourself," said Henry, "and for one I am heartily ashamed of what has passed in your presence! That the like may not be repeated or continued, permit me to withdraw for the present!" and with a low bow he turned on his heel and went below. 
               "And are you not ashamed of yourself too?" said Isaline, turning to Hampton. 
               "No! why should I be?" 
               "Because it was all your fault." 
               "How so?" 
               "You claimed that which was not your own." 
               "I deny it, Miss Holcombe! That bird was mine-I killed it." 
               "Why did it not fall, then, before Mr. Colburn fired?" 
               "It is a common thing, when the breath is in, for a bird, shot directly through the heart, to fly some considerable distance, and then fall dead," replied Hampton. "If my ball did not strike it, why did it so suddenly drop downward on the discharge of my piece?" 
               "Possibly you may have hit it, Mr. Hampton!" 
                
               "Possibly I may have killed it, Miss Holcombe!" 
               "And even granting you did, was it becoming for a gentleman to have so many angry words about it?" 
               "It is always right for a gentleman to claim his own, and not suffer himself to be robbed by a mere adventurer!" 
               "I hold, sir, that you are to blame!" 
               "Of course you do! I could not expect any other verdict from you, considering in whose favor it is made!" said Hampton, with a covert sneer. 
               "You forget yourself, sir!" said Isaline, proudly and coldly, with the color mounting to her temples; and, turning abruptly away, she walked to another part of the boat, leaving the angry Hampton alone with his own dark thoughts. 
               This affair caused some excited discussion among the passengers-a few, if only for the sake of obstinate argument, contending that Hampton was right-but neither he, Colburn, nor Isaline exchanged another word with each other during the day. 
               At sunset the three boats were anchored as usual near the Kentucky shore, in a pleasant little cove, where, on the lower headland, the shore descended abruptly, with trees and bushes overhanging the water, while on the upper bank, as if by some peculiar freak of nature, an open, level wood stretched back for some considerable distance. The sun set in a cloud, which soon spread a thick pall over the heavens, and the night became so intensely dark that the shore was completely hidden from the view; but as no Indians, nor signs of Indians had thus far been discovered, no one felt much alarm on this account; and if the occasional howl of a hungry wolf, or gloomy hooting of an owl, or sharp, tremulous cry of a loon, did sometimes make the more timid quite nervous and uneasy, the majority gave little heed to sounds that they knew as much belonged to the wilderness as the trees of the forest. 
               The boat occupied by our voyagers, had been constructed with a view to the accommodation of passengers. In its general appearance it was not unlike a modern scow. The middle portion of it was roofed over, and the interior was contrived with stationary and hanging berths, sufficient for the lodging of the women and children-the men, for the most part, preferring to camp down in their blankets wherever the fancy pleased them. A regular watch was set every night, and such precautions taken as were considered necessary and prudent in passing through the country of a savage enemy. One of the rules laid down by the scouts was, that no one, except an experienced woodman, or some one especially under his charge, should be permitted to land on either shore, either in the day time or night time; and this regulation being regarded as one which concerned the safety of all, no one made the least objection to the imposed restraint; and therefore all the cooking for the different parties was done on board, and the boat became as much a home to the adventurers as they would have found in a larger vessel upon the great deep. 
               The evening meal had been prepared and eaten by the different families and messes, and the women and children had mostly retired for the night, when Charles Hampton, who was seated in the forward part of the boat, brooding over his fancied wrongs, received a gentle tap on the shoulder. He started quickly, looked round fiercely, and confronted the shadowy figure of a man, standing in a skiff along side of the larger craft, but whose approach he had not heard. 
               "Hush!" whispered a voice; "don't be alarmed! but tell me if you're Charles Hampton?" 
               Hampton rose, stepped back a pace, laid his hand upon a pistol, and answered, but in a whisper also: 
               "I am! And now who are you? and what do you want?" 
               "I'm Jim Davis, one of the scouts, and the friend of Henry Colburn." 
               "Well?" 
               "I'd like you to pick your friend and rifle, and come along with me!" 
               "Where to? and for what purpose?" 
               "Where you can try your skill on a man, instead of a bird!" 
               "Oh, I am challenged, then?" 
               "You're expected to fight. But don't let anybody hear us talk about it-for if the women get hold on't it, there'll be the deuce to pay!" 
                
               "I don't understand this backwoods way of doing business!" said Hampton, in a loud tone, as if he was willing, if not anxious, to have other listeners. "In my country a man is openly challenged, and his reply waited for, and he is not asked to sneak off in the dark, the Lord knows where; and besides, if his challenger is not his equal, he is at liberty to refuse a meeting altogether; and moreover he can, if he accepts, choose his time, place, and weapons, and not have everything picked out for him by his enemy." 
               "Well," returned the other, "I don't pretend, of course, to know what every man means who talks in this here roundabout way; but I reckon I won't be a great ways from the mark, if I puts you down as one of them that's much better at fighting with your tongue nor your rifle-a squaw-man, as the Injuns say." 
               "What means this insolence?" 
               "Oh, if you're going to bluster, say so! and if you're a going to fight, say so! for I can do a heap better with my time nor fool it away with you!" 
               "I'm willing and ready, at any and all times, to fight an equal," said Hampton, assuming a proud, haughty tone; "but as for giving every upstart and adventurer a meeting, that is out of the question!" 
               "I can't say how it is in England," rejoined Davis, "but out here, in the wilds of free America, every man's the equal of every other man, till he does so'thing to disgrace himself, as you're doing now, if you don't just come along and give the man you insulted satisfaction." 
               "Let him first convince me he is a gentleman, and then he shall have satisfaction in any manner he pleases!" 
               "I'm to understand, then, that you won't fight Henry Colburn?" 
               "Under present circumstances, no!" 
               "Then I'll go back and report what you've said," returned Davis. 
               The next moment the little boat shot away in the darkness, with so light a dip of the oar that it was scarcely heard. Thirty paces carried it to one of the other large boats, where Henry Colburn and his companions were awaiting the return of their messenger. 
               "He's a coward, and won't fight!" reported Davis, as he appeared among his friends. 
               "I thought as much," said Henry. 
               "The - finiky slink!" growled Rough Tom, with an oath we need not repeat. 
               "What's his reason for refusing?" inquired one of the others. 
               "He puts on that he's a gentleman, and says Harry must prove himself one before he'll give him satisfaction!" replied Davis, who, though not a man of education, was superior to some of his companions in the use of language. 
               "Woofh!" grunted old Tom; "he's a gintleman, is he? I'll fix him! We've got hosses aboard the to'ther boat, that keep the niggers busy. They'd like a little rest, I know. We'll guv 'em help-we'll send 'em a fresh hand. Ef Mr. Lord Hampton's a gintleman, he'll know what hosses is; and ef he backs down from this yere fight, we'll put him thar, under the niggers, and let him work his passage." 
               "One or two of the horses are his own," said Henry. 
               "All the better, then." 
               "But you can hardly carry out your threat, Tom." 
               "Can't I? Let me alone for that! Jest you go back, Jim Davis, and tell him what we've fixed on-that he's eyther got to fight Harry Colburn to-night by fire-light-fa'r, squar', and stand up, with rifles-or else we'll turn him into a nigger hostler! Woofh! I've said it!-me-old Rough Tom-and whar's the use?" 
               "I'll not be long in fetching his answer," said Davis, who immediately departed on his errand. 
               In about a quarter of an hour he returned, accompanied by Charles Hampton himself. As the latter came aboard the freight-boat, and joined the group of men who were seated around a small fire kindled on some sand near the bow, it was observed that his dark features were deadly pale, that his lips were so compressed as to drive the blood from them, and that his black, snaky eyes had a very wicked, murderous look. 
               "I have come here," he said, in a cold, haughty tone, "almost on compulsion, to answer any demands that may be made on me. I know I have no friends among you, and that physically I am unable to resist your power; but, in the name of civilization, I demand fair play and the rights of a gentleman!" 
               There never was a class of rough men more favorably disposed to the justice of such a claim than the early pioneers of the West. Fair play was all they asked for themselves, and what they were always ready to grant even to an enemy. Whether he knew it or not, Charles Hampton had luckily chosen a manner and selected words the best calculated to excite the sympathy and touch the manhood of men whose admiration of true courage was only equalled by their detestation of cowardice; and though, on his first appearance among them, they had regarded him with scowls of angry contempt, they now, one and all, even to Rough Tom, felt disposed to accord him a certain degree of respect. 
               "By heavens," replied Davis, "I'll see you have fair play as far as I'm concerned!" 
               "And so we all will!" cried another. 
               "Yes, young man, I'll sw'ar to 't, even ef you is a lord, or any other - foolish finiky-anything, in fact, 'cept the cussed, sneaking slink I tuk you for!" joined in old Tom. "You shall hev a good rifle, ef I even has to lend you mine, and good ground too, and a fa'r show; and arter you're killed, as I 'spect you will be, we'll see that you're put under ground like a Christian, and not left lying around loose for the wolves and buzzards to feed on!" 
               "I am much obliged to you," returned Hampton, with a covert sneer; "but if it is all the same to you, I would rather not be buried just yet; and as for your rifle, I should not need it, even were I to use one, seeing that I have one quite as good of my own. I do not expect this affair to be settled with rifles, however. I am the challenged party, and as such, by the code of honor, have a right to name the weapons, time, and place. Mr. Davis, as you have so kindly volunteered to see fair play, I call on you to act as my second!" 
               "Hold up!" interposed Tom. "Thar's agwine to be fa'r play, fur that I've swore to; and to hev fa'r play, thar's got to be rifles!" 
               "I shall choose pistols," said Hampton. 
               "Pistols? bah! woofh! wagh!" cried Tom, with all the contempt he could express. "Whar's the use? As well say pop-guns to onct!" 
               "They are gentlemen's weapons," rejoined Hampton, "and I am a gentleman. Mr. Davis, as my friend in this matter, you will speak for me!" 
               "See he-yar," roared Tom, with a burst of anger, "don't come any of your-follumdicum-fiddle-dediddles over me, about your gintlemen, pistols, and them things! Whar's the use? You're on old Kaintuck waters, now; you insulted your man thar, and you've got to take Kaintuck rigelations! Boys, see he-yar!" pursued Tom, more particularly addressing ing his companions; "what war all this yere rumpus about, hey? I'll tell ye. Both of these yere young fellers shot at a bird, and both claimed they killed it. Then one insulted t'other afore the woman, for which he's axed to fight. Ef both is sich good shots with the rifle, why don't they let the rifle settle it, hey? It's a Kaintuck we'pon, it's a Varginee we'pon, it's a backwoods we'pon, and, by -, it's good enough for anything as wears ha'r!" 
               This argument settled the point; for all agreed with the old scout, that the rifle was the only proper weapon for the occasion-more especially as the quarrel was directly connected with the use of it. The next two points to be considered, were time and place; and for various reasons it was decided there was no better time than the present, and no better place than the neighboring forest, beyond the hearing of the women. 
               "As I'm to have no voice in the matter, notwithstanding all your boasted fair play," said Hampton, "I may as well prepare myself to be murdered in an honorable way!" 
               "You'll hev to take your chance," answered Rough Tom; "and ef you're as good with the rifle as you brag on, I 'spect thar'll be two dead men for us to kiver; but arter the insult you gin Harry Colburn, thar's nothing to be done 'cept fight him, beg his pardine afore the women, or git kicked into a nigger hostler-you kin hev your choice of them thar three!" 
                
               "Lead on, then!" rejoined Hampton; "for sooner than ask the pardon of an upstart adventurer like him, I would see myself sunk a thousand fathoms in the bowels of the earth!" 
               Henry was within hearing of all this, but he made no reply, though his lips were observed to compress, and there was a peculiar gleam of his deep blue eye that boded no good to his deadly foe. 
               Everything was soon prepared for the fire-light duel, and the several parties went ashore in three small boats, leaving only two men in charge of the larger ones-all the others, including the boys and the negroes, having camped down for the night. Landing on the level-where the wood, as before mentioned, was open and clear of bushes-they pushed directly back for nearly half a mile; and then, with some resinous pine-knots which they had brought with them, they kindled two fires, about thirty yards apart. Some distance back of these, just so that their figures began to grow shadowy, with the smoking, wavering flames between them, they stationed Hampton and Colburn. The object of such an arrangement will readily be perceived. Both of the young men were quick and deadly marksmen; and a duel by daylight, with rifles, would give neither a chance for his life; but the flickering fire-light would be likely to render the momentary aim of each uncertain. 
               All the preliminaries having been settled, the principals duly placed, and the rifles loaded and put in hand, the seconds retired a few paces, and Davis announced that he was to give the word. 
               The scene was novel, picturesque and impressive. Here, under one of the long arches of the grand old forest, with trees of many centuries' growth around them, stretching upward their huge trunks like so many mighty pillars for the support of the leafy canopy above, stood two men, rifles in hand, prepared to deal out death and receive it, with two flickering fire-lights between them, casting grim, ghostly, changing shadows over their pale, determined faces, seemingly making them scowl and grin like demons, and flashing out upon the seconds and the group of borderers standing back watching them, and pushing uncertain light far out into the mysterious darkness, filling the fanciful mind with a weird-like dread and awe. There were a few moments of deadly silence, during which each felt the deep solemnity of the place and the occasion; and then the clear words rung sharply out, and went echoing and re-echoing far away through the long dim, and dark forest aisles, like so many voices calling to judgment: 
               "Ready, gentlemen!" 
               Were they ready for eternity? 
               The rifles of the two deadly adversaries were instantly brought into position for the awful work before them, and each man held his breath, listening for the signal which might send one or two living souls beyond the confines of earth and time. 
                
               At that awful moment, instead of the expected signal, the whole forest seemed to resound with a strange, wild, shrill, prolonged, quavering shriek, that apparently rose from earth to heaven, and floated, danced, and died out in mid air. It was fearful and unearthly, and well calculated to make the stoutest heart quake and quail. The scouts looked at each other with faces blanched with terror. They who could brave the dangers of the wilderness like heroes, and face death like stoics, trembled and grew pale before the mystery that stretched out beyond their mental grasp. 
               "Good God, save us!" cried old Tom; "it's eyther the Phantom or the Devil!" 
               He turned and dashed away through the forest, and the others followed him, all save Hampton and Colburn, who still remained on the ground where their seconds had placed them. 
               A devilish gleam of triumph now shot over the dark features of Hampton, amid the fiendish shadows of the fire-light, as he beheld his rival apparently in his power. 
               "I came to kill him, and I will!" he muttered. 
               He raised his rifle, took a steady aim, and fired. At that instant Henry chanced to move his head, and the ball grazed his cheek. 
               "Villain!" he cried; "it is my turn, now!" 
               But Hampton gave him no opportunity for a shot. Finding he had himself failed to bring down his enemy, he darted behind the nearest tree, and fled swiftly through the forest, and into that darkness to which his vile spirit belonged. 
               What was it that followed him? As he fled, Henry saw some dark object, in size and form not unlike a human being, leap down from a tree near him, and dart away after him, uttering a wild shriek, similar to that which had so terrified his companions. The next minute he heard the yell of Hampton, succeeded by a shriek of his mysterious pursuer. These sounds were several times repeated, and gradually died away in the far distance; and then Henry found himself all alone in the deep, gloomy forest, with the two flickering fire-lights causing strange, fantastic shadows to dance all around him. A feeling of awe and dread now took possession of him, and he also turned and fled from the eventful scene. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE DECOY. 
               WHEN Henry reached the bank of the river, he found, to his surprise and somewhat to his dismay, that he was not at the place where he had come ashore; but whether he was now above or below the proper point, he could not tell, till he chanced to recollect the close-wooded hill on the other headland, and then he knew he had gone up the stream instead of down. As we have said, the night was very dark; and while within the forest, where, nothing could be seen, it was so much more a matter of chance than calculation which had brought him to the river at all, that he felt very thankful to find he had not gone further astray and become completely lost. He immediately set out to pick his way downward along the bank; and though he made what haste he could, it took him a full hour to reach the place of landing. No boat of course was there, for his really frightened companions had hurried aboard the larger boats with them, and were now congratulating themselves that they had escaped with their lives from the dreadful Unknown of the forest. 
               "Halloo the boat!" shouted Henry. 
                
               "Who's thar?" was the response of Tom. 
               "It is me-Henry Colburn." 
               "Sure it's you?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Alive?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Don't believe a - word on't! You're only the ghost of yourself!" 
               "Don't be a fool, Tom! but come ashore here with a boat, and I'll soon convince you I'm worth a thousand ghosts!" cried Henry, half amused and half vexed at the superstitious fears of one of the bravest scouts and hunters of the borders. 
               "It sounds powerful like him," he heard Tom say to one of his companions, "and I've a notion to risk it." 
               "Come, come, Tom, if you're afraid of me, it is time you were leaving the wilderness for some finiky settlement, as you call it!" cried Henry. 
               "Hold on, then!" returned the old woodman; "I'll be with you in a jiffy." 
               The dip of an oar was now heard, and a minute after the bow of a small skiff touched the shore. Henry had been so long accustomed to the awful darkness of the woods, that he was barely able to see it floating up to the bank, like an indistinct shadow, and he hastened to meet it. 
               "Is it you, Tom?" he queried, as he stepped into it. 
               "'Spect it ar," replied that worthy, "though I've been so infarnally skeered, that I hardly know myself from a pine stump. Woofh! warn't that shriek orful? I thought we war all goners then sure! and when we got yere, and didn't find you amongst us, we allowed the Demon had got you. How'd ye git off, Harry?" 
               "It was fearful," returned Henry, shuddering at the thought of all he had heard, seen, and passed through, "and when I get aboard the larger boat I will tell you all about it." 
               His companions greeted him as one just rescued from a fate worse than death, and a dozen eager questions were pressed upon him in a breath. He related all that had occurred after they left him, up to the time of his rejoining them. Great was their indignation at the murderous attempt of Hampton, and equally great was their satisfaction at the thought that the Devil now had him, for he had not yet returned, and no one now believed he ever would. 
               "'Spect it war him all the time as the Devil war arter!" muttered Tom; "and ef he's got him, as I 'spect he has, it'll maybe keep us from doing a lettle private hanging-the lying, cowardly, slinking white nigger!" 
               Some two hours were spent in talking over the events of the night-Tom, as usual, predicting the most disastrous consequences to spring from the appearance of the Phantom, or Demon, or whatever it might be, and his equally superstitious companions for the most part agreeing with him. 
                
               "I tell you, boys, thar'll so'thing orful come on't!" repeated Tom, some twenty times, with an ominous shake of his head. 
               "So you said," observed Henry, "when you saw the Thing before; but you see we are both alive yet, and nothing serious has come of it so far." 
               "Wall, can't you guv it time!" snarled Tom, who did not like the idea of being considered a false prognosticator. "You'll see! Whar's the use?" 
               "It would be very strange, indeed, if something serious should not happen in the course of time!" laughed Henry. "If that is what you mean, we are well agreed." 
               Nothing serious, however, occurred that night, and at daylight the boats resumed their progress down the river. To the great delight of his companions, Henry made a sketch of the scene in the forest, at the moment when the strange Unknown was in the act of leaping down from the tree in pursuit of Hampton. It was drawn from memory, with great fidelity, and the lights and shades were managed with true artistic effect. 
               He showed it to Isaline, who, having retired early the evening before, as yet knew nothing about the events of the night. 
               "It is a strange sort of picture," she said, "but what does it represent?" 
               "A scene I witnessed last night." 
               "You?" 
                
               "Even I, Miss Holcombe. This figure is intended for myself." 
               "Were you then ashore and in the forest?" 
               "I was." 
               "And what is this leaping down from the tree? a human being, or an animal?" 
               "I do not know-it looks there as it appeared to me." 
               "And who is this running here?" 
               "Charles Hampton." 
               "Ha!" cried Isaline, turning quickly, catching him by the arm, and looking keenly into his eyes; "you and he quarreled, yesterday! and what were you doing together in the forest last night?" 
               "After gentlemen quarrel, it sometimes becomes necessary for them to meet and settle their differences." 
               "You went to fight a duel?" 
               "Respect for myself and companions required me to demand satisfaction for the gross insults I received yesterday in your presence!" 
               "Oh, heavens! and you fought?" cried Isaline, with a nervous clasping of her hands. "I might have known you would!" 
               "No, we did not fight, for we were interrupted, as you see." 
               "And where is Charles Hampton now?" 
               "I do not know." 
               "Is he living?" 
               "I cannot say-he has not returned." 
                
               "You did not kill him?" 
               "No, I did not harm him-though he treacherously fired at me, and then ran like a coward." 
               "Thank God that at least his blood is not on your soul!" said Isaline, fervently. 
               "At least I am spared that reflection, though I was strongly tempted to send a ball through him. The last I saw of him, he was flying in fear, and the strange Unknown was pursuing him, uttering hideous shrieks." 
               "And this strange Unknown, as you call it-what do you suppose it is?" 
               "I hardly pretend to conjecture," replied Henry. "It, or something like it, has many times been seen and heard in the forest by the scouts and hunters, who are superstitious enough to believe it something supernatural-though, in that respect, I am not prepared to agree with them. My rough companions fear it more than they would a host of Indians; and they say that, after it is seen and heard, something evil always befalls the unfortunate party-though even of that I am not so sure. When the word was on the point of being given, last night, that might have proved fatal to Hampton or myself, or perhaps both, the air was filled with a prolonged and terrible shriek, and all who were present with us turned and fled in wild dismay, leaving us alone in our positions. I admit I was a good deal unnerved and startled myself, and was on the point of following their example, when Hampton, with murderous treachery, fired at me, the ball just grazing my cheek, as you can perceive by this red mark. Then, fearing I might shoot him down like a dog, as I was certainly tempted to do, he turned and ran also; and this Creature, with more wild shrieks, leaped down from a tree near him and went bounding after him. I heard the cries of both till they appeared to be lost in the distance, and then I hurriedly left the scene, and fortunately made my way safely back to the boats. I drew this rough sketch from memory, and this is all I know of the affair." 
               "A wonderful mystery!" returned Isaline, with a shudder. "What can it be? Heavens! what a fate for Hampton!" 
               From her words and manner, Henry was at a loss to know in what degree of estimation his rival was held by Isaline. Did she regret his absence as that of an acquaintance, a friend, or a lover? or did she regret his absence at all? He could not tell. Sometimes he fancied one thing and sometimes another, but the real truth was a secret of her own. At all events, the field was now clear for him; and as he had already begun to form a very ardent attachment for her, he resolved to make the most of his present opportunity. 
               Thus far, with the exception of the incidents we have mentioned, nothing had occurred to break the dull monotony of a slow passage down the river; but toward the evening of that day, the boat was hailed from the Ohio shore, by a man who seemed to be in great distress, and who begged most piteously to be taken aboard, declaring he had been a prisoner among the Indians and had just made his escape. 
               "That story's told so often that we haint got no faith in't!" called out one of the men. 
               "Oh, for God's sake, don't leave me to die here!" cried the man, holding out his hands imploringly. 
               "Can you swim?" 
               "No, I should drown." 
               "Well, we shan't run our boats any nearer the shore, for we're too old in the business to stick our feet into Injun traps." 
               "Oh, for God's sake, for mercy's sake, don't leave me here to starve. or be caught by the savages again!" pleaded the man. 
               We have already mentioned the manner in which the Indians, by means of decoys, sometimes entrapped the inexperienced and unwary to their destruction, and this of course will explain what might otherwise seem the cruel indifference of the scouts to the apparent sufferings of a fellow being. They were, in a general way, bold, brave men, who would risk their lives, when necessary, where they had faith in the justice and need of the noble deed; and even now, with all their doubts upon them, it was very trying to them to turn a deaf ear to prayers so earnestly, and it might be truthfully, made; but their resolution was taken, and all the piteous pleadings of the man on the shore failed to shake it in the least. Of course the sympathies of the women were strongly enlisted in behalf of the apparent sufferer, and they soon joined their prayers to his, declaring it would be such a species of downright cruelty to leave him there to perish that Heaven would be certain to visit them with its displeasure. 
               "Whar's the use?" growled Tom. "Ef we knowed the feller warn't lying, we'd fotch him off in no time; but I haint the least incline to see you all riddled with bullets, or hev some yelling red devil slapping my own ha'r in my face." 
               "Is it really true that we are going to leave that poor fellow to perish there?" said Isaline to Henry, with some warmth. 
               "It seems cruel, I admit; but it certainly would not be prudent for us to risk one of these boats ashore," he replied. 
               "But there are smaller boats," returned Isaline, quickly; "and, among you all, I should think there might be found one or two men brave enough to make the venture alone!" 
               The color mounted to the temples of Henry, and he replied, with a slight bow: 
               "At least, Miss Holcombe, your suggestion shall not be lost on me!" 
               "Nay, I did not mean you, Mr. Colburn!" she quickly cried, as he turned to leave her. "Stay! you must not go yourself! but let some of the others venture instead!" 
               "I would ask no man to risk his life and decline to peril my own!" he answered, with a look of dignified reproach. 
               "Return, then, I pray you, and do only what is prudent!" said Isaline, turning somewhat pale. "Do not act upon my words, which I now admit were thoughtlessly spoken." 
               "No," said Henry, respectfully but firmly, "I cannot change my purpose now, but shall make an effort to save this man, let the consequences be what they may!" 
               When they learned what he was about to do, the companions of the young artist remonstrated with him against his rash design-and Rough Tom even called him a fool for thinking of such a thing-but he calmly replied that there might be no danger whatever, the man's story might be true, and at least his conscience would not be easy until he should have made an effort to save him. 
               "Well, at least you shan't go alone!" said Davis, following him to a skiff which was fastened to the stern of the larger boat. 
               "Nay," said Henry, "there is no need of two to do the work of one. If there is no danger, I can readily bring off the man; and if there is danger, it is folly to peril two lives!" 
               "That may be all very well for you to say," rejoined Davis; "but you see you can't have everything your own way; and if you go, I'm agoing to go with you!" 
               Henry made no further objection, and the two were soon afloat in the skiff and striking off for the Ohio shore. 
               "Oh, be careful of your lives!" called out Isaline, in a voice that was tremulous with emotion. "Be very, very cautious! and do not forget that yonder is a dangerous shore, and that you may be advancing upon a terrible ambuscade!" 
               She said lives, and apparently addressed them both; but her thoughts dwelt on one, and she fairly groaned in spirit at the reflection that it was her own words which had prompted him to undertake what might prove a fatal adventure. 
               "I will remember your instructions!" returned Henry, lifting his hat and waving her an adieu. 
               As the little boat gradually increased the distance between it and the larger one, and glided off lightly toward the northern shore, every eye was fixed upon it with that intensity of feeling which we never fail to experience when we see a human being perilling his life in the cause of humanity. There was a deep and breathless silence, as if all were oppressed with the dread and awe of the shadow of death. Nearer and still nearer the little boat approached the shore, where the solitary man was making frantic gestures of hope and joy, and more intense became the feelings of the spectators, some of whom unconsciously clasped their hands and wrung them. Now the stranger, apparently by the directions of those who had gone to save him, went lower down the stream, to a projecting point of land, and came out to the end of it, that he might be reached without requiring the skiff to venture too far in shore; but even there, tall, overhanging trees and a dense thicket formed a dark, heavy background, which might conceal a treacherous foe, and the anxious watchers felt little relief from the change of position. 
               Colburn and Davis themselves seemed far from being satisfied that all was right-for, after drawing near the point, they checked their advance, and first turned up the stream and then down, and appeared to reconnoitre the shore with great keenness and care. Then they stopped and held a parley with the stranger, the words of which could not be distinguished by those on the larger boat. A minute or two after, as if the colloquy had proved satisfactory to the scouts, they were seen pulling up to the bank, while the man was observed to advance to the extreme verge of it, holding on by the overhanging bushes, as if ready to leap or lower himself into the skiff the instant the bow should come beneath him. 
               At this critical moment of intense expectation-a moment that seemed so fraught with deliverance or danger-several light puffs of smoke were seen issuing from the thicket, the reports of several muskets were heard blending into one heavy roar, and both Colburn and Davis were observed to sink down in their little craft, as if riddled with bullets. At the same instant the stranger gave a shout of triumph, and five or six painted savages burst into view, uttering their appalling war-whoops! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               INTO THE WILDERNESS. 
               "OH, my God! my God!" cried Isaline, clasping her hands and almost sinking into the arms of her faithful Rhoda; "this is my doing-mine-and I shall never forgive myself for my folly!" 
               "Dar, Miss Isa, chile-dar-you didn't do nuffin-I's declar' to goodness you didn't!" exclaimed the frightened mulatto, throwing her arms around her mistress as if she would shield her from harm. 
               "Neber said a ting in de hull course ob your long life, Miss Isa, dat any gemmen 'ud keer tree straws about!" cried Priscilla, rolling her eyes and waddling up to her mistress, and doubtless thinking she was uttering some very consoling words. 
               "I knowed it!" cried Rough Tom, with a dozen oaths, as he danced around like one insane; "I knowed it 'ud come to this yere, or so'thing else, when that Thing yelled in the forest! Poor Harry! God bless him! The infarnal, finiky fool, to go, arter I told him better! Whar's the use? Woofh! Git out of my way! I'm gitting danngerous! Fotch my rifle, somebody! I'll run the boat ashore, and blow their cussed heads off! I'll eat em! I'll swaller 'em whole, like snakes does tadpoles! Wagh! wagh!" 
               "Look! they're not dead yit!" shouted one of the men. "See! they've got the boat out from the shore, whar the red-niggers can't reach it without jumping into the water. Whoop! hurrah! thar they go-both rifles together-and down comes two painted devils, screeching like hounds!" 
               In fact it did appear, on second view, that matters were not so bad with our friends as had been supposed. If wounded, they certainly were not killed, were still at liberty, and had been able to use their own rifles with such effect as to place at least two of their enemies hors de combat. A loud, wild cheer was given them from the larger boats, and they were now seen putting off on their return, with quick and vigorous strokes of their oars. Several shots were still fired at them from the thicket; but they seemed to possess charmed lives, and in a few minutes were back among their friends, who received them with the wildest demonstrations of joy. 
               "How d'ye do it?" cried Tom, throwing his arms around Henry and giving him a hug that would have done justice to a respectable bear. "Lord love ye, Harry, I seed 'em fire, and seed you drap, and arter that I wouldn't a gin the wink of a blind nigger for your chance of gitting off alive! and yit I don't see as you've got ary scratch!" 
               "Heaven has been kind to me beyond my deserts," replied Henry, "in delivering me unharmed from such perils; but my brave comrade here did not meet with the same good fortune, for he has been struck twice." 
               "Just mere scratches!" replied Davis, as he attempted to spring up from the smaller boat into the larger one. 
               But though his words were lightly and cheerily spoken, his face was very pale, and a minute after he fell swooning into the arms of one of his comrades. His wounds, though serious, were not necessarily mortal; but he had lost much blood, and a deathlike faintness followed close on his delivery. 
               "Oh, I am so thankful to God that you have returned to us alive!" cried Isaline, as she hurriedly advanced to Henry and grasped both his hands with hers. "If you had fallen into the hands of the savages, either living or dead, I should never have forgiven myself for the words which excited you to so rash an undertaking!" 
               "You were not to blame, Miss Isaline, in the least!" answered Henry, with a flush of pride and satisfaction. "I went because I felt it was my duty to attempt the rescue of a fellow being whose tale of suffering appeared to be true, and even now I have only to regret the misfortune which befell my brave companion." 
               "It was a noble deed, and Heaven will bless you for it!" 
               "It has already, Miss Isaline!" rejoined Henry, in a low, earnest tone, gazing fondly into her lovely face and sympathizing eyes; "Heaven has already blessed me, in preserving my life and giving me the kind approval of those I so highly esteem." 
               Isaline did not reply to this, but her color deepened and her eyes sought the ground. A brief silence followed; and then she anxiously inquired if there was not danger still from the Indians that had so villainously unmasked themselves. 
               "I think not," answered Henry, reflectively. "Unless in a very large body and by surprise, they would hardly venture to attack so many deadly rifles as they must suppose us to possess; and now that they know us to be on our guard, it is not likely they will continue down the river, even in the hope of a future opportunity. No, Miss Isaline, I think this sudden exposure, with its consequences, is the best thing for us that could have happened. I am glad that your words prompted me to go to the rescue of that pleading wretch, for by so doing I have made my conscience easy, and it may be an overruling Providence has used the act for the salvation of us all." 
               "Oh, what black-hearted wickedness there is in the world!" said Isaline, thoughtfully. "It is bad enough for savages, trained to blood and war from infancy, to do the cruel deeds of the wilderness; but what shall be said of the white villains who consort with them and excite the holiest emotions of the human heart merely to bring destruction upon fellow beings of their own country and race? I had heard of such things, it is true; but until I witnessed such an act of fiendishness, I could not bring my mind to realize it." 
               "There is an old axiom which says, 'The brighter the angel when he falls, the blacker the demon he becomes!'" returned Henry; "and I know for a truth there are white men among the Indians who are even more cruel and blood-thirsty than the natives of the forest! God keep us from falling into such hands!" 
               Isaline shuddered at the thought. 
               "And yet," she said, "we have a long stretch of almost unsettled wilderness to pass through to reach our destination." 
               "But there will be many strong arms and vigilant eyes to guard you from harm," replied Henry. 
               "I know I shall be surrounded by brave hearts," said Isaline; "but for all that, after what I have just seen, I confess I am becoming timid. Before I set out, the journey presented to my careless mind its bright romance and indistinct perils-but now it oppresses me with a painful dread. Would to Heaven it were over, and I were safe in the arms of my father!" 
               "Do not be troubled, Miss Isaline! the danger, I think, is nearly past!" returned Henry. "We shall soon reach Limestone, now, and from there the inland journey is little to be feared. Remember the Ohio will roll between us and the homes of our savage foes; and of late they seldom venture to cross into Kentucky, where they have, from time to time, met with so many serious reverses and sore defeats." 
               "Well, I will hope for the best!" sighed Isaline; "but you must promise me that Henry Colburn will do no more rash deeds!" 
               "Your lightest wish shall be my law!" was the gallant response of the young artist. 
               Meantime the three large boats, in close company, were dropping steadily down with the current; and though both shores were sharply and eagerly scanned by the anxious voyagers, nothing more was discovered of a threatening nature. So far as could be seen, the Indians who had assailed our hero were not disposed to come any nearer to the descending boats; and it was generally believed they would return to their villages, or wait where they were in the hope of being more successful with the next party of adventurers. Still there was nothing certain, and the timid became more troubled and fearful, and the bravest were disposed to be unusually vigilant and cautious. 
               When the boats lay up that night, they anchored well out in the stream, a double guard was set, the skiffs were hauled aboard, and no one was allowed to visit the shore. Nothing, however, occurred to cause any disturbance, except that once, toward morning, one or two of the scouts fancied they heard a wild, distant shriek in the forest, similar to that we have more than once described, the effect of which was to unnerve them and depress their spirits far more than the yells of a hundred savages would have done. 
               In the afternoon of the following day the boats reached Limestone, where passengers, goods and horses were all disembarked, and preparations made for the inland journey through a long stretch of dangerous wilderness. They did not set out, though, till the third morning after their arrival, and the nights were passed within the strong walls of a border block-house, or fort. 
               It was not the first time in her life that Isaline had been so lodged. She had already become used to rough scenes with rough companions, and, so that she could experience a feeling of security, she was disposed to accept the rest with that philosophy which always seeks to find pleasure instead of annoyance. She was one of those happy natures who prefer the bright to the dark side of the picture-and generally have it-for in truth more shadows cover the realm of fancy than of reality. Her spirits, so lately depressed, now rose to the height of merriment, so that many were surprised at the marked change that had so suddenly taken place. She laughed at those who seemed vexed, and rallied those who appeared gloomy, and did everything that lay in her power to lighten the tedium of the heavy hours. Some blamed and many praised her, and Henry thought he never saw her appear more lovely and interesting. 
               The third morning after the arrival of the voyagers gers, the train started for the interior, the women and children all being mounted, and the rest of the horses being loaded with goods, tents, clothing, cooking utensils, provisions, and other portable things. 
               Of the whole number who had come down the Ohio, Davis was the only one left behind at the fort. His wounds were doing well, and promised speedy recovery; but he was not in a condition to pursue the tedious journey through the wilderness, and so was put under charge of the medical man of the post. 
               The scouts acted in their regular capacity-all of them by turns pushing on in advance, scouring the country round about, hunting for Indian sign, and killing such game as fortune threw in their way. At night they joined the train, and, assisted by some of the others, kept guard over the camp. 
               The weather, which had promised a cool rain, was now again clear and warm, and as yet not a single frost had begun to change the bright green of the forest to the variegated hues which render it so attractive to the lovers of the picturesque and beautiful. 
               Only some six or eight miles were made the first day, and, with the sun still above the horizon, the camping-ground was selected at a pleasant spot near a running stream. Here the horses were unloaded and turned out to graze, the tents pitched, and the suppers of the different messes cooked and eaten before the advancing night had fairly closed around the scene. All so far was well; and though there was many a palpitating heart among the number that soon after lay down to repose, all continued well till morning again showed them a day so lovely as to make their souls swell with prayers of thanksgiving. 
               The second day and night, like the first, passed off without anything to excite alarm; and as the journey thus far had proved less gloomy and disagreeable than had been anticipated, the spirits of the most timid began to grow buoyant. A few days more of continued prosperity would see them safely among their friends, where they fancied there would be little to fear from the hostile tribes of the North. 
               Though Henry had joined the scouts and acted with them in perfect harmony, he had never at any time considered himself bound to continue in their company, or in the capacity assumed, one moment longer than might suit his inclination; his birth and education had placed him in the social scale far above them, and he knew he could take another position whenever he should choose; but while he was with them, he felt it to be his duty to perform his part with the rest; and therefore, on the present journey, though it would have given him more pleasure to have remained by the side of Isaline, as a friend and fellow traveller, he neglected no task that the others performed, and was sometimes in the advance and sometimes in the rear, sometimes hunting and sometimes standing guard. A horse was at his disposal whenever he wished to ride; but thus far he had only mounted him once, and then only for a few minutes, and his whole conversation with Isaline had amounted only to general salutations and passing civilities. 
               In the afternoon of the third day, however, finding that everything was going well, and that a few hours leisure for himself would impose no extra labor upon any of the rest, Henry mounted his horse, resolved upon having some pleasant recreation. Riding up to the side of the fair maiden, who had of late occupied so much of his thoughts, he said, in a light, gay tone: 
               "There, Miss Isaline, congratulate me that at last I am blessed with time enough to draw a long breath and inquire after the health and comfort of the lady it is both my duty and pleasure to serve." 
               "Is it possible," cried Isaline, in well-affected surprise, "that you really have time to ask the question and wait for an answer?" 
               "In truth I believe it is even so," laughed Henry. 
               "And are you not afraid your master will discharge you for some neglect of duty?" pursued the other, with a serio-comic air. Really, it appears to me that for a young man of your bringing up you are taking unheard-of liberties, and it would pain me very much to see you sent back in disgrace!" 
               "It certainly is a pleasure to me to know you take such a deep interest in my welfare!" laughed the young artist. "But jesting aside-how are you pleased with your journey thus far, Miss Isaline?" 
               "Oh, delighted, of course, that I am not talked to death, can get my breath in spite of the heat, and still have my head on my own shoulders!" 
               "And the last is always something to be thankful for in the wilderness," returned Henry. "So far everything has gone well, thank God!" he seriously added; "and once on the other side of the Licking, which we are now approaching, I shall feel we are beginning to be pretty safe. Yonder line of hills, which you can now and then catch a glimpse of through the trees, marks the course of one of the most romantic streams of this romantic region-a stream that flows in deep, dark solitude, beneath green and flowery bowers that nature has well fitted for the sylvan retreats of the Indians' Paradise. I once spent a week in roaming up and down its delightful banks, and now and then sketching a scene of quiet beauty or rugged grandeur; and though no mortal was with me, I never felt less alone, for I fancied that legions of spirits of Indian maids and lovers were hovering around the enchanting place!" 
               "Did you fancy them armed with tomahawks and scalping knives?" laughed Isaline. "But pardon me! I am wrong to jest on so grave a subject!" she soberly added, with a mischievous look. "Unquestionably you had a very delightful time; and I shall only be too happy to learn you escaped as sound in heart as body, and that the love-shafts of the spirit Indian maids passed as clear of their mark as the more tangible bullets of their mortal brothers!" 
               "I believe I left the romantic region entirely heart-whole," rejoined Henry, looking straight into the bright, merry eyes of his fair companion; "but whether I shall return to it in the same condition is something more questionable." 
               A very slight flush suddenly tinged the cheek of the young lady, and she instantly became deeply interested in looking at something on the other side of her horse. 
               "By-the-by," she said, "I dreamt of Hampton, last night." 
               It was Henry's turn to color, now; but he rejoined, in a light, easy tone, though it possibly cost him an effort: 
               "Nothing seems more natural, Miss Holcombe, than that we should dream of those who are deep in our regard." 
               "True!" returned Isaline, thoughtfully, as if the idea his words conveyed was in her case an accepted fact. "I wonder what can have become of him?" 
               "Perhaps he is somewhere in the forest, practicing with the rifle!" answered Henry, with a slight curl of the lip and sharp compression of the teeth. "If he had been a little better marksman, he might have been here now instead of me!" 
               "And that Creature that followed him," said Isaline line, as if pursuing her first train of thought, "what could it have been?" 
               Henry looked at her, but did not reply to the question. 
               "Was your dream a pleasant one?" he asked. 
               "More ridiculous and horrible than pleasant," she answered. "I thought we were all flying through the air together-the Phantom, with face and body like a woman, and wings like a bat, spiriting us away to some dark, unknown region, which at last we reached, and where the only sounds were groans, shrieks, and hideous laughter!" 
               "Whom do you mean by we?" inquired Henry. 
               "Why, you and I, Hampton, a band of murderous savages, and the Witch Phantom!" 
               "A select company!" laughed Henry. 
               "So I thought!" returned Isaline, with an arch smile; "but what is more natural than that we should dream of those who are deep in our regard!" 
               "Go on with the dream!" said Henry, with a slight flush. 
               "That was all. I woke up, with old Priscilla shaking me for breakfast, and heard some of the men laughing, and others shouting and swearing at the horses. But what is that yonder?" queried Isaline, pointing to a large green mound, that could be seen through the trees a short distance away to the right. 
               "The sepulchre of some portion of a race that has gone from this world forever!" replied Henry. "In this broad region, called the Great West, there are numbers of these landmarks of a people of which none now living have any record. They came and they passed away; and these mounds of earth, filled with human bones and a few rude implements of stone and clay, are all that is left to tell that they once lived, moved, thought, reasoned, felt, suffered, and died!" 
               "And has the present race of Indians no knowledge of them? no traditions concerning them?" inquired Isaline, with awakened curiosity. 
               "None, I believe-at least so I have understood." 
               "I should like to visit this mound." 
               "Nothing is easier. You have only to ride down through the open wood here, and I shall be happy to accompany you." 
               Turning to her servants, who were only a few paces behind, Isaline bade them keep along with the train; and merely adding that she would rejoin them shortly, she gave her high-spirited palfrey a light touch with her riding whip, and set off at a brisk canter through the wood-Henry instantly following and speedily overtaking her. 
               "Whar's she agwine to?" asked old Priscilla, who was mounted behind her companion Rhoda, on a strong, good-natured, sluggish horse, that could scarcely be whipped out of a walk. 
               "How d'ye 'spect I knows?" answered Rhoda, with the petulance of a spoiled child. "Ise doesn't know ebery ting about missuses doings!" 
                
               "Dat dar's cl'ar enough-Ise knows you doesn't-but you allers talk as ef you did!" grumbled the old nurse. "Ise does wonder whar she's agwine! Ise hopes dat young buck won't run off wid her; but she leans up to him purty sharp, I reckons. Dar was one time Ise thunk Marsa Hampton had 'em all fixed; but sence he's done gone to de Debil of de Forest, Marsa Colbrum 'pears to hev it all cl'ar wedder. A-a-ah! Ise hopes de Forest Debil won't git 'em bofh! but Ise got out my skeers on't, I has!" 
               "You has your skeers out on eberyting!" pouted Rhoda, with a fierce jerk of the bridle rein. 
               "And doesn't 'em come true, chile?" exclaimed Priscilla, rolling her eyes with an air of triumph; "answer me dat, chile! Didn't Ise hev out my skeers on Marsa Reginald? and didn't him git done gone shot in de battle of Branderwine? And didn't Ise hev out my skeers on Miss Libzabeth? and didn't shes go dead in no time? Go 'way, chile! you's young and simple, and doesn't know no'ting!" 
               "Well," returned Rhoda, angrily, "Ise says dis much-dat ef you gits out your skeers on Miss Isa, and she goes dead, or any of dem tings, I'll wrung your neck like you does chickens!" 
               "Ise doesn't keer for dat!" persisted the old nurse, with a solemn shake of her head. "Ise got out my skeers on dem two young peoples, and you'll see someting orful-dar now!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               TURNING ASIDE. 
               AT the moment when Henry and Isaline turned aside to visit the Indian mound, the train, of which they formed a part, was slowly, carelessly, and irregularly pursuing its way over the then beaten route between Limestone and Lexington. It was passing through an open, nearly level wood, within sight of the romantic hills of the Licking, and was stretched out, in a straggling manner from front to rear, to a length of nearly half a mile. Though in the latter part of the month of September, the day was extremely warm and sultry, and every one, beast as well as rider, seemed disposed to take matters as easy as possible. The horses which carried burdens moved slowly, with heads down, whisking their tails, and occasionally stopping and turning to snap at flies; their drivers sauntered along in a lazy, indifferent manner, now and then with a chirrup, an oath, or a crack of the whip, seemingly more from habit and to keep awake than for any other reason; the scouts plodded forward, with their rifles swung over their shoulders and their eyes on the ground, evidently thinking of anything rather than wild game or savage foes; and the mounted females and children dren jogged on, singly or in pairs, each looking heated and wearied, and as if it would be too great a task to hold a conversation with anybody. When our young lady and gentleman so suddenly turned aside and dashed away in company, it did excite some little surprise in those nearest to them, and some two or three of the more energetic ventured to ask what it meant; but as no one assumed the responsibility of giving an answer, and as they were too far from Isaline's servants to understand the sage remarks of the latter, the matter appeared to be dropped as one which would require too much trouble to investigate. 
               Meantime Henry and Isaline, with more life and spirit than all the rest put together, were speeding away toward one of the curiosities of the wilderness, and it was evident that from some cause they felt little of heat or fatigue. 
               A quarter of a mile brought them to a pretty little brook, which ran along the base of a bank of earth, some five or six feet high, that had apparently been thrown up with a shovel, and formed one side of a parallelogram of two hundred yards by one hundred and fifty, with an opening of six feet wide at each of the four corners or angles, the whole resembling an earthwork or fortification of modern times. Within this inclosure, at short, equal distances from each embankment, rose an oblong mound, to the height of fifty feet, with a regular rounding off of the sides and apex, as though it had been constructed in the best style of a genuine art. Upon the summit of this mound were some half a dozen large trees, which had grown there since its erection, and the whole was covered with a thick, rich greensward, interspersed with wild flowers of various bright hues, presenting an appearance of striking novelty and beauty. Riding into the inclosure through one of the openings, our friends galloped entirely around the interior, but found the main acclivity too steep on all sides for an ascent on horseback. 
               "It is a beautiful curiosity, to be here in the wilderness," said Isaline, "and I should so like to go to the top of it!" 
               "We can easily do so by dismounting, I think!" returned Henry. 
               "But our horses?" 
               "Tie the bridle-reins around their necks and let them graze here-my word for it they will not attempt to run away." 
               "If you are certain of that," rejoined Isaline, "we will do so-or," she added, "we can hitch them outside." 
               "They will remain quietly enough here; have no fear!" said Henry, dismounting as he spoke and assisting his companion to do the same. 
               The horses seemed eager for the rank grass, and, leaving them to feed, their riders began to climb the steep little hill before them. It was not easy to ascend, even on foot-for the sides had an angle of inclination like an old-fashioned house-roof-but by taking hold of the grass, to keep from slipping backward, Henry and Isaline soon managed to reach the top, from which they had a fine view of the country round about. 
               The scene was a pleasant one, but requires no more than a general description. In the direction from which they had approached the place, or looking eastward, was a level, nearly open wood, among the grand old trees of which they could catch glimpses of the train they had left; further on to the right, or southward, was a small ridge, beyond which the ground descended to a swampy level, covered with a thick canebrake; beyond that was another ridge; and then the eyes rested upon the hills of the Licking, some five or six miles away, but coming up with a broad bend to within half that distance westward, and then falling back till lost in the dim blue of the northwestern horizon. Directly northward the ground was rough, rocky, and bushy; and between the artificial mound and the nearest hill of the Licking range, was a thick wood, a dense thicket, a rocky ridge, a canebrake, and a grassy opening-so diversified was the face of the country. The sun was some two hours past meridian, but his rays were beating down with great heat; and looming up above the western horizon were some half-a-dozen ominous-looking cloud-heads, as if they might be angry heralds of an approaching storm. 
               "And where do we cross the Licking?" inquired Isaline, after having looked around her with a flush of delight. 
               "Yonder," replied Henry, pointing in a southwesterly direction, "where you see that opening between the hills. The great buffalo trace we have been following leads thither, and there, near the Blue Licks, is the ford." 
               "Oh, yes, the Blue Licks-I have heard my father speak of that place. If I remember rightly, a great battle was fought there between the Kentuckians. and Indians!" 
               "Yes," replied Henry, "a terribly disastrous battle for the borderers-one that nearly cost them the possession of the country! Through their own want of caution and the cunning of the savages, they were drawn into a horrible ambuscade, and the deeds of that day shrouded the whole fair land in mourning!" 
               "I should so like to see the battle-ground!" said Isaline. 
               "Should everything be favorable when we reach there, I will show it to you." 
               "You do not apprehend any danger?" returned Isaline, looking at her companion searchingly. 
               "At least I hope for no trouble, either there or elsewhere," he answered; "but it is a place I never approach without a feeling of dread-for there, at different times, the Indians have ambushed the whites and committed some fearful deeds." 
               "Then why pass there now?" 
                
               "It is the only travelled road through this section of the country, and has a good ford, except when the river is raised by the spring and fall floods." 
               "Why do you call our route the buffalo trace?" 
               "Because in times past the buffalo and other animals, which roamed the wilderness here and northward, came down yonder to lick the saline earth and rocks, and on going and returning they passed over and formed the beaten track we have been pursuing. The springs, at what are called the Licks, are strongly impregnated with salt; and this even now draws from different quarters the beasts of the wilderness; so that these Licks are still fine places for the hunter, who, by concealing himself in some neighboring thicket, can always supply himself with game." 
               "And so the builders of this mound are not known even in tradition?" said Isaline, abruptly changing the subject and whisking the ground with her riding switch. 
               "So far as I can understand, not even our present race of Indians knows anything of them," replied Henry. 
               "I wonder if they were as savage as their immediate successors! Did I understand you to call this mound a sepulchre?" 
               "Yes, for the ground contains a great many human bones; and also implements of stone, such as hatchets, knives, spear-heads, mortars, kettles, and so forth. I have never dug here, but I have in other mounds like it, and which appear to be scattered all over this western country, and I doubt not the same articles would be found here. I have sometimes thought these hills might have been thrown up for the burial of the chiefs and their families, and that these household things, along with the weapons of war and the chase, might have been put in their graves, under the superstitious belief that they would be needed in the other world-for it is a singular fact, that all nations, peoples and tongues, no matter how rude and low in the human scale, have some kind of faith in the immortality of the soul, or future existence of man." 
               "I have often thought of that," returned Isaline, "as one of the strongest evidences we have of the reality of a life beyond the grave-for to the barbarous heathen the belief must come rather through instinct than reason-and we know that in the life around us instinct seldom if ever errs. I should like exceedingly to get hold of some one of these relics, as a memento of this visit!" 
               "If I had a spade with me, it might be the work of only a few minutes," answered Henry; "and even as it is, I think with the use of my knife I can soon get hold of something." 
               "Perhaps it would delay us too long, and our friends get too far ahead of us!" 
               "Oh, we could easily overtake them, were they even to have a two hours' start!" said Henry, glancing ing at the wood through which the train appeared to be moving at a snail-like pace. 
               "But they may think strange of our absence, and some of the scouts come off to seek us!" suggested Isaline. 
               "They would hardly do that unless we were to be absent till after dark," returned Henry, "and we will overtake them long before then, to say the worst. But come and sit down, Miss Isaline, on the grass here, in the shade of this tree, while I make a little exploration of the mound!" he added, pointing her to a very comfortable seat. 
               "I will take the shade of the tree, but prefer standing to sitting," answered the young lady, as she moved forward to the place indicated. 
               "Sometimes," pursued Henry, "there are marks about these mounds which show us how to arrive soonest at the treasures we seek, and I will endeavor to find one of these." 
               He forthwith began his search. Going down the northern side, looking carefully at every step, he at length exclaimed: 
               "I think I have found one of the places-a small, flat stone, buried under the grass, and nearly concealed by the earth itself. Remain up there in the shade, Miss Isaline, have patience for a few minutes, and I will tell you more." 
               He took out his knife, got down on his knees, and began to clear the dirt off from the stone. This done, he tried to raise it, but found he could not stir it. It was a reddish sandstone, about two feet square, and was covered with hieroglyphics. He again spoke to Isaline, told her of his discovery, and she went down to look at it. 
               "If we could get it up," he said, "I doubt not we should find something beneath that would prove interesting. If I had a spade, I would soon have it out, but a hunting-knife is a slow tool to dig with." 
               "Nay, then, let it go," returned Isaline; "at best it would only be gratifying a whimsical fancy, and I do not want you to lose any more time here." 
               "Pardon me, Miss Isaline!" he said, looking up into her bright, sweet face, with a pleasant smile; "I can never think any time lost that I may employ in serving you!" 
               "You are very kind," she replied, with a rosy flush that increased her beauty; "but I fear we are remaining here too long! We must not forget that we are in a lonely wilderness, filled with prowling wild beasts and savage men, and I see you have not even brought your rifle with you!" 
               "True," he said, "when I mounted my horse, I gave it to one of the blacks to carry for me; but then I really do not believe there is any danger here!" 
               "Perhaps not; but we are certainly in an exposed situation, and I confess I am beginning to feel a little uneasy. Although we can hear our friends, they are already out of sight; and if anything were to happen, we might not be able to rejoin them, or get them to our assistance in time to serve us, if at all!" 
                
               "Do not be alarmed, Miss Isaline, for there is really nothing to fear!" said Henry. "All around us the country has been well scoured by the scouts, and not a single Indian sign has been discovered since we landed in Kentucky, and there are no wild beasts in this region that would venture to attack us by daylight. True, I have had some little dread of the ford near the Licks; but we shall not approach that alone, and my companions will look well to the country in that vicinity, you may depend!" 
               "Well, suppose we rejoin them at once!" 
               "Give me a few minutes more, Miss Isaline, and I think I can get this stone out. I will work fast, and I confess I am myself not a little curious to see what is underneath it." 
               As Isaline made no further objections, though she glanced around her with a greater feeling of uneasiness than she would have cared to express, Henry began to dig away the earth from around the stone with his knife and hands. He worked hard and fast, but his progress did not keep pace with his expectation and desire. Five, ten, fifteen minutes slipped away; and though he had by that time cleared the dirt away from the sides of the stone to the depth of several inches, yet he had not come to the bottom of it and could not move it. He was still at work, and his fair companion was glancing around her with an increased feeling of uneasiness that amounted to something like fear, when suddenly both were startled by the sullen boom of distant thunder. 
                
               "Ah!" exclaimed Isaline, turning deadly pale and trembling in every limb. 
               "Good Heaven! what is the matter?" cried Henry, catching the painful expression of her features and noting her nervous agitation. 
               "It often affects me thus when it takes me so much by surprise," she answered, in a low, faint tone, as she seated herself on the ground, apparently too weak to stand. "Oh that we had not come here at all!" 
               "We can easily rejoin our friends before the shower can catch us, if that will make matters any better!" he replied. "I did not think of this! One moment, till I get a look at it!" 
               As he spoke there came another boom, and on the heels of it a third, with a longer and heavier rumble. Isaline covered her face with her hands, and uttered a low, startled moan, which Henry did not hear, for he was in the act of darting around the hill to get a view of the approaching storm, his late position having been about half-way between the bottom and top of the mound and too much on the eastern side to permit of his seeing the western horizon. 
               A great change had taken place since he had last looked in this direction. Half way up to the zenith, a black, rolling, angry cloud was now stretched, from which darted vivid chains of lightning; and the low, sullen rumble of the distant thunder rapidly increased in volume, and soon became an almost continuous tinuous roar, with now and then a jarring boom. The whirling of the clouds indicated a good deal of wind, and the advance of the storm was so swift, that even while he was calculating the time it would take for it to reach the place where he stood, he beheld the dark vapors shoot athwart the bright face of the sun, casting a gloomy shadow over the whole scene. 
               For himself Henry feared nothing; to him this war of the elements was a sublime beauty and fascination; and had he been alone, he would have remained and gazed at the storm with a kind of poetical rapture; but he remembered his fair companion, now made timid even to terror through some unexplainable action of the electrical forces upon her nervous organization, and he hastened back to her side. He found her sitting as we have described, with her face buried in her hands, rocking herself to and fro and moaning. 
               "The storm is nearer than I thought, Miss Isaline," he said, with hurried anxiety, "and unless we set out immediately, I fear it will reach us before we can possibly rejoin our companions." 
               "Quick, then! let us go at once!" cried Isaline, starting to her feet and finding herself so weak as to require his support to keep her from staggering, if not falling. "You think me a foolish coward, I know," she added, as she hurried down toward the horses, "but I cannot help my feelings. A thunderstorm has always had this effect upon me since I can remember; and though I have often tried to reason myself out of my terrors, I have never succeeded in doing so." 
               "Fear not that I shall think the less of you for what you cannot avoid!" returned Henry. "We have no more command over our feelings than our faith." 
               "Ha! what a sharp flash!" cried Isaline, covering her eyes, as a bright bolt shot from heaven to earth, and was shortly followed by a bursting roar. 
               As our two friends neared the horses, which had all this time been as quietly feeding as if nature were at holy peace around them, there suddenly rung out upon the murky air another sound more appalling than the loudest crash of thunder! It was the wild, fierce scream of the panther, or cougar! and the terrible animal was seen leaping from a tree to the ground, just outside of the inclosure. This even made Henry start, as well as his companion, with a thrill akin to fear, and instinctively his hand clutched the haft of his knife, the only weapon he now had with him. The horses too at the same instant threw up their heads and glared around them, with snorts of terror; and then, before Henry, who abruptly left his companion and darted forward for the purpose, could reach and grasp their bridles, they threw out their heels wildly and dashed away like the wind. 
               "God help us!" murmured Isaline, clasping her hands, with a feeling and look of absolute despair. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE TEMPEST. 
               FOR a few moments Henry stood as one petrified. Accustomed as he was to act instantaneously in critical cases, he now halted in a state of uncertainty, if not bewilderment. His first impulse was to spring after the horses, in the hope that they might not run far; but in the same moment he bethought him that he would thus be leaving Isaline all alone, and the idea was abandoned at once. Hastening back to her side, he threw his arm around her slender, trembling form, and, in a low, tender tone, for the first time since their acquaintance dropping all formality, he said: 
               "Isaline, do not be alarmed! the danger is not so great as it seems." 
               She leaned heavily against him, as if mutely asking protection; and there, alone in the wilderness, almost defenceless, he experienced a thrill of happiness he had never felt before. 
               "Do not be alarmed, Isaline!" he repeated, in a tender, soothing tone; "the storm is all that we have to dread, and that is in the hands of God, and will not destroy us!" 
               With the last words came a blinding flash of lightning, quickly followed by a crash of thunder and a few heavy, pattering drops of rain. 
               "Oh, Henry!" responded the trembling girl, in a tone of helpless terror, and leaning more heavily against him, as though too weak and faint to support her own fragile form. 
               The storm had been unusually rapid in its advance. From the moment when our friends had been warned by the first low, distant boom of thunder to the present time, only a few minutes had elapsed; and since then the bright sun had been darkened, the blue heavens above them had been covered by a black pall, the forked lightnings had played about them, crashing thunders had almost stunned them, big drops of rain had begun to descend, and now was heard that sullen, ominous, awful roar, which proclaims the near approach of a terrific tempest or tornado. 
               "If we could only find some place of shelter!" said Henry, with a quick, anxious glance around him. 
               "There is no time!" gasped Isaline; "the tempest is upon us. Heaven of mercy! look yonder!" 
               There was no time indeed, and the last exclamation was drawn from her by the awful appearance of the atmosphere above her. It was dark with millions of leaves, which were whirling over and around and rushing forward with a terrific, roaring velocity. These were controlled by a current of wind near the black clouds, which were also rolling, twisting and writhing in a most frightful manner. As yet the air near the earth was still and calm; but it was of that stillness and that calmness which made it dreadful to expectation. In the worst we know the worst, and battle with it with every faculty of mind and body, buoying our spirits up with action, fearing nothing more and hoping something better; but in the waiting for uncertain evil, the imagination is filled with horrors that unnerve and paralyze us, because we cannot grapple with them. The expectation in this case was soon a terrible reality. The current of air that swept and roared through the heavens, was quickly followed by one that tore along the earth, destroying nearly everything in its path. It seized the trees of the forest, great and small, bent them like reeds, snapped them asunder, tore them up by their roots, whirled them round like straws, and strewed and piled them together in a long, wild, tangled mass of ruin. It struck the top of the mound and hurled everything downward except the earth itself, and even that trembled. Fortunately our friends were at its eastern base, where the wind could not reach them in its wildest fury, or they might never have outlived it; and even as it was it almost lifted them from their feet and drove them against the embankment, where they turned their faces to the earth, breathed with difficulty, silently prayed, and every moment looked for death. Meantime the shrieking, howling, and roaring of the tempest were awful beyond description; the air was black with flying leaves, branches, and timbers; there was a ghastly, lurid glow throughout the gloom; dazzling chains of forked lightning struck downward and outward in every direction; the crashing of the thunder seemed like the dashing together of the worlds of the universe, and the driving rain fell in such torrents as if the windows of heaven had indeed been opened. Its wildest fury lasted for half an hour, and then its work of destruction was done in that locality, and it went howling, roaring and rumbling away to the eastward. 
               When at last Henry and Isaline found themselves in a condition to look about them, they were indeed in a pitiable plight. There was not a dry thread upon them. The rain too was still descending in torrents-for though the tornado was past, black, humid clouds remained, that literally poured their watery contents upon the earth, as if to complete the work of destruction with a deluge. Nor was this all. The little stream, mentioned as flowing along the base of the eastern embankment, had already swollen to the size of a small river, had overleaped its own natural banks, and was splashing its waters into the inclosure, through the opening of the nearest angle, to a depth of several inches, with the flood still rising, and other smaller streams rushing, leaping, and roaring down the centre mound to swell it still higher. 
               "Thank God," said Henry, "our lives have been preserved through this awful tempest, the like of which I never saw before! But see, Isaline-dear Isaline, may I not call you? for, after sharing this dreadful peril with you, you have become dearer to me than any other being in the wide wide world,-see! the flood is rising around us, and we must change our place for safety. Have you strength enough left to attempt the ascent of the mound again?" 
               "Yes, Henry," replied Isaline, looking up with a face into which the color was beginning to return, "I am stronger than I was-much stronger. It was the lightning which affected me so-it always did-but wherefore I cannot say. Other dangers may alarm me as much, but nothing else so utterly weakens and prostrates me. Oh, Heaven, what a tempest! what a tempest! It seems almost a miracle that we have both lived through it! But the danger is not yet past! How shall we ever get back to our companions?" 
               "Do not fear, dear Isaline! there will be a way, I trust!" said Henry, soothingly. "Come, let me assist you up the hill again, where I fancy we shall be safer for the present, and where at least we can get a clearer view of the scene of desolation." 
               She gave him her hand, and they walked through the water that already covered the space between the embankment and mound; but when they began the ascent of the steep and slippery acclivity, she required the support of his arm, and it was only after much labor, difficulty and delay that they were able to reach the summit at all. 
               Truly a wild scene of destruction here met their view. The sweep of the tornado, from north to south, had been something like half a mile wide, reaching out about equally on either side of the mound, so that the spot where our friends now stood had been, so to speak, the very centre of its fury. It had moved from west to east in an almost direct line, and had either uprooted or blown down the trees of the forest, strewing and leaving them on its terrible path in every conceivable position, so that in general appearance its destructive work was not unlike a mower's careless swath through a field of grain. Scarcely a tree had been left standing; and that anything having life, and most of all human life, should have been preserved in the midst of its fury, was certainly little short of a miracle. Had Henry succeeded in catching the horses and mounting himself and companion, it is more than probable their lives would have been destroyed, as they would have taken just the course to have been caught by the tornado in the forest, and this they now comprehended with such feelings of gratitude for their preservation as belonged to their noble natures. 
               "It is often thus," said Henry, solemnly, "that Providence saves us in spite of ourselves; and in the mysterious workings of Heaven we sometimes find good springing out of what we had thought to be evil. We grieved at what we supposed to be a calamity when our horses ran away from us, and now we find that very event to have been our salvation." 
               "It is truly so," replied Isaline, "and I am very very thankful to God for our wonderful preservation! But what of our companions, Henry? Do you think they have been fortunate enough to have escaped also?" 
               "I hope so, Isaline, and I may say I believe so, for they were moving in a southerly direction, and must, I think, have got beyond the fierce track of the tempest." 
               "And will there be any way for us to rejoin them?" inquired Isaline, with an expression of painful anxiety. 
               "Undoubtedly!" answered the young artist, more hopeful in the word than the thought; for the rain was still coming down in torrents, every little brook was already swelled to a river, and in every direction, as far as the eye could reach, the level ground appeared to be nearly buried under water, which was pouring down from every hill in rushing streams. 
               "O-oh!" shuddered Isaline; "I am growing cold." 
               "Ah, that is what we have to fear!" said Henry, in some alarm. "I am afraid you are taking cold, for you are soaked through and through, and the temperature has fallen several degrees. Oh that we had some place of shelter where I could strike a fire! Here, perhaps this may be of some little service to you!" and he took off his hunting-frock and wrapped it around her shoulders. 
               "No, no," said Isaline, endeavoring to throw it off, "I will not be so selfish as to rob you!" 
               "Oh, I do not mind it in the least," he said; "I am used to all kinds of exposure, but you are not. Nay, dear Isaline, I insist that you wear it!" he added, using a little playful force to keep it round her shoulders. "Ah, do wear it, now, to please me! will you not?" 
               "But you will suffer from the exposure!" 
               "No, I promise you I will be very good and do nothing of the kind!" returned Henry, demurely. 
               The oddity of the reply and the look that accompanied it, drew a smile from Isaline, and she made no further resistance or objection. 
               "What a dreary prospect!" she said, surveying the dismal scene before her; "how shall we ever get away from here?" 
               "It will not rain always," returned Henry; "even in Noah's time it stopped after forty days and nights; and I feel almost certain this deluge will not last half as long as that one did!" 
               "It is a great blessing to be light-hearted!" smiled Isaline. "Ah, our poor horses! what has become of them? I fear we shall never see them again!" 
               "Unless destroyed by the tornado, I think they will be found, but not soon enough perhaps to serve our present need," returned Henry. "I am sorry to say, Isaline, I see no way of rejoining our companions except on foot, and I am much afraid you will not be equal to the task!" 
               "Oh, yes, it will not hurt me to walk, I am sure; and even if our horses were here, we could not ride through this mass of fallen timbers. Come, let us set off at once! I am anxious to show you what I can do-what a little heroine I can be!" 
               "We shall have to wade through the water in many places." 
               "Which will hardly wet us now," smiled Isaline. "I am ready for the trial; and since we have escaped such terrible perils, I shall look upon the obstacles in our way as comparative trifles." 
               Henry took one more survey of the dreary scene, and suddenly exclaimed, pointing to the northward: 
               "Ha! look yonder, Isaline! by that large rock near the base of that rocky ridge!" 
               "Oh, yes, I see! I see!" cried Isaline, clapping her hands with delight; "our horses! our horses! Heaven be praised, they have not been killed!" 
               "They must have run fast, and just barely escaped the track of the tornado!" said Henry. 
               "Can we not get to them?" 
               "I think so, Isaline-though there appears to be a swampy level on the direct line, covered with water; but, as far as I can judge, looking at it from here, we can go around it to the westward, and strike the ridge about a quarter of a mile beyond them." 
                
               "But then, after reaching them, how shall we get them across this wide mass of fallen timbers?" 
               "Ah, that is where the trouble will be!" 
               "At all events, Henry, let us make the trial!" 
               "Will you go, or remain here, Isaline?" 
               "Oh, I must go with you, certainly-for I confess I am not courageous enough to remain here by myself! Besides, I am very cold, and need all the exercise I can get." 
               "I hardly know," returned Henry, hesitating, "that it will be prudent for us to go after the horses! The same labor it would cost us to get to them, would take us beyond the fallen timbers in the other direction, and perhaps enable us to rejoin our companions in case they have halted on account of the storm." 
               "But suppose they have not?" 
               "Then we should have a long walk to overtake them-for unless they have already halted, they probably will not short of the ford-a distance of five or six miles at least." 
               "Let us go for the horses, then!" said Isaline. 
               "Well, if you think best!" answered Henry. 
               They immediately began to descend the mound, and, reaching the bottom in safety, went out of the inclosure through the northwestern opening. They then began to pick their way over the trunks and through the tangled branches of the fallen trees; and though they made what haste they could, they were nearly an hour in getting to the point they aimed at beyond the track of the tornado. Here their progress in that direction was stopped by a reedy marsh, now covered with some two or three feet of water, which, as the rain still continued to pour, was every moment gradually rising. As Henry had foreseen, they could not cross this, but would have to go around it; and as the fallen forest came up close to its margin, there was no other way than to continue to push over and through the matted trees as they had been doing. In one respect they had made a great miscalculation, and that was concerning the time it would take them to accomplish their purpose. Before setting out, they had supposed that an hour, and even a much less period, would be quite sufficient for them to reach the horses; but an hour had been consumed in getting to the marsh, and it took them more than another hour to work their way around to the ridge where they could move forward with far less difficulty. When at last they reached the rock where they had seen the animals quietly standing together, neither beast was there, nor even in sight. 
               Isaline uttered a cry of vexatious disappointment. 
               "All this valuable time lost and nothing accomplished!" she said. 
               "They cannot be far off, I think!" returned Henry, with an uneasy look. "By following this ridge around a little further, I doubt not we shall find them quietly feeding in some sequestered nook. See! here are their tracks in the wet earth, and it is no difficult matter to pursue so clear a trail." 
                
               They went forward again, hoping every minute to find the beasts they sought, but every minute getting further from their friends and having so much less of daylight left to them. It was certainly not a prudent undertaking, this going in quest of the horses, and they now admitted it to each other. The trail led them into a thicket, and the search consumed another hour without any favorable result. 
               "This is too bad!" at last exclaimed Henry, coming to a stop; "you are being all tired out, dear Isaline, and no good accomplished! Three hours of such labor in the other direction would have carried us to our companions, even supposing them to have made no halt short of the ford, and now we have all that ground to go over, with only a little more than an hour of daylight left to us!" 
               "Then we must give up this search for the horses and go back at once!" said Isaline. 
               "Yes, yes-we have no time to waste!" returned Henry, anxiously. "I blame myself severely that I did not come to this decision sooner; but I was lured on by the hope that we should presently have our horses in our possession again, and would not have to make the backward journey on foot. What has caused these beasts to lead us such a chase I am at a loss to imagine!" 
               "Perhaps they have been led or ridden themselves!" suggested Isaline. 
                
               Henry started, and turned toward her a look expressive of suspicion and alarm. 
               "God forbid," he said, "that there should be enemies abroad in the wilderness here, and we in such a defenceless condition! Let us hasten back, dear Isaline, but not the way we came. Here! we will strike out another course toward the ridge you see yonder, and follow it round on the other side. We will return to the rock where the horses were-for since you have made the alarming suggestion, I am anxious to see if we really have any such cause for fear." 
               They started instantly, in great haste-for though there might be no other danger, they feared the night would set in before they could get across the fallen timbers in the direction of their companions-and to be caught out alone in the darkness, in such a dreary waste, would be in itself a calamity. By the new route they took, and the speed they made, they returned to the rock where they had seen the horses in something like half an hour. 
               "Gracious God, preserve us!" ejaculated the young man, turning pale and pointing to the broad trail, first made by the animals and then by themselves in going in pursuit of them. 
               "What is it, Henry?" gasped his frightened companion, nervously clutching his arm. 
               "Whether the horses were led off, or ridden off, I cannot say-but here are prints of moccasined feet, which were not here when we set off in search of them! May God in His mercy help us and save us! for our own trail has surely been followed by savages!" 
               Isaline uttered no cry and made no reply, but looked wildly and helplessly into his pale face, on which were already standing great beads of perspiration, wrung from him by the agony of thinking of their exposed and defenceless situation. 
               "Come!" he exclaimed, throwing his arm around her almost fainting form, to give her his manly support, and half lifting her from her feet, at the same time glancing fearfully about him, as if he expected to behold a hideous savage start from every bush; "we must fly, dear Isaline-fast and far-fast and far-and may God in His mercy give us strength to run and deliverance from these awful perils!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               FLIGHT AND PURSUIT. 
               HENRY, supporting his fair companion in the manner stated, took the backward course along the base of the ridge so oftened mentioned, in order to go around the marsh and gain the fallen timbers, in which he hoped to find a place to secrete Isaline and himself from savage eyes, till the coming darkness-now no longer dreaded, but looked forward to with hope-should shut in the scene of danger and desolation. 
               The two fled rapidly together, both nerved by one dreadful fear, their very hearts seeming to leap into their mouths at the snapping of every stick or any other sound. 
               Their course had been chosen by impulse and not calculation, or they would have taken the opposite one-for a moment of calm consideration would have shown Henry how much the danger would be increased in this direction-since, if the savages were on their trail, they would unerringly be led to this side of the ridge, at a point not far beyond that at which they were now aiming, and with the chances of discovering them before they could possibly reach it. 
                
               The rain was still falling, but not very heavily, for the great weight of the storm had gone eastward, and in the west the clouds were already breaking, with a prospect that the declining sun would set in shining splendor. 
               Pressing forward with all the speed that fear could lend to their strength and will, they soon reached the fallen timbers on the other side of the marsh, and at once plunged into the cover of the tangled mass, with no intention of crossing it in the exposed manner they had so recently done, but solely with the view of concealing themselves for the time and getting themselves recruited for another flight. 
               Fortunately dense coverts were now not difficult to find-for though the wood had been a comparatively open one-that is, in a great measure, clear of under-brush-the falling of the trees, one over the other, with their thick branches matted in together, in a perfect network of limbs and leaves and vines, afforded such places at every few steps; and rather seeking huge trunks to crawl under than places to stand upright, Henry and Isaline crept back for a hundred yards or so from the edge of this wild scene of destruction, and at last came to a full stop among the tangled boughs of a gigantic oak. 
               "Ah!" exclaimed the young artist, drawing a long breath of relief; "thank God we have reached here without discovery!" 
                
               Isaline clasped her hands, turned her white face upward, and breathed a silent prayer of thanksgiving. 
               For a minute not another word was spoken, each seeming too deep in reflection to give voice to thought. 
               "But are we safe here now?" at length spoke the trembling girl. "I have heard it said that Indians can follow a blind trail, and surely ours can be easily seen!" 
               "If the savages are really on our trail, we are not safe here, dear Isaline, I am sorry to say!" replied Henry; "but I thought we might venture to rest here a few minutes and then resume our flight." 
               "And which way shall we go?" 
               "In the direction of our companions." 
               "Oh, let us not waste any precious time here-for I am so unnerved! so fearful that something terrible is going to happen! Gracious Heaven! only think of our being captured by these fiends of the wilderness!" 
               "The very thought of your being in their hands, dear Isaline, makes me shudder!" rejoined Henry. 
               "But have you no thought for yourself?" 
               "Yes, but my fears for you are far greater than for myself." 
               "You are very kind to think of me," returned Isaline, "and I trust you will always find me grateful; but I beg you will not forget that your own life is quite as valuable as mine!" 
               Henry was about to make a reply, when both were suddenly and terribly startled by several short, sharp Indian yells. 
               "Gracious Heaven! are we discovered?" gasped Isaline. 
               "Not yet," replied Henry; "but undoubtedly our last trail is, and we must make a rapid flight to escape these human bloodhounds! Keep up your courage, dear Isaline, and follow me! We must pass under the trees and through as much water as possible, that our trail may not be easily perceived and rapidly followed!" 
               He instantly set forward, pressing through the branches of the oak, and then picking his way under the trunks of the trees where the gloom of the scene was deepest. If the Indians pursued immediately, they must have done so leisurely, or found the trail troublesome, for our flying fugitives heard no more of them for nearly an hour. 
               Unconsciously they had taken a westerly, instead of a southerly, course; and they had just worked their way through the belt of fallen timbers to the swampy thicket which joined it in this direction, when a few wild screeches were given in the wood behind them. At first Henry thought they were discovered, and that all hope was over; but on looking around and seeing no living thing, he took heart, suspecting the yells might have been for intimidation, or some other than the cause he feared; and throwing an arm around Isaline to support her, he plunged at once into the bushy thicket and pressed forward with all the speed he could. 
               This thicket, consisting for the most part of small trees and bushes, as if it had not very remotely been cleared of a heavy wood and was now growing up again, had felt the force of the tornado, though its effects were not so destructively marked as in the forest, because the smaller bushes had bent in together without breaking, and only here and there a sapling had been blown down or uprooted: still enough had been done to make it very difficult for our friends to force their way into and through it, and, in spite of their utmost exertions, their progress was so slow that every moment they expected the savage yells of discovery to ring in their ears. Yet they went on and on, trembling between hope and fear, and every minute feeling that so much was gained, because the sun was going down and their safety would be much increased by darkness. 
               At length they descended into a little hollow, through which now poured a roaring stream, mostly the collected waters of the late storm, and, just as they reached the bank of this, the sun burst out in splendor near the horizon, sent his bright rays through the still falling drops of rain, and set the glorious bow of promise in the east. 
               "See!" said Henry, pointing to it; "may we not draw an augury of hope?" 
               He had scarcely spoken, when, back some distance behind them, was heard a loud rustling of the bushes, as if some heavy body was swiftly pressing through the thicket; and with a low, startled cry, Isaline impulsively clung to him as if for protection. 
               The sound, whatever it was, drew nearer and nearer, and even Henry turned pale as he glanced up the little ridge in fearful expectation. 
               They were not long kept in suspense-for, in less than half a-minute, a fine buck bounded into view, aiming directly for the spot where they stood; but, on seeing them, it shot off swiftly in another direction, and was heard plunging through the water some distance below. 
               "Quick, dear Isaline!" said Henry; "I fear the Indians are not far behind! and we must break our trail here, or never hope to escape!" 
               Supporting her as before, he hurried with her into the stream, far enough to conceal their footprints, and then both went up against the current as fast as could be done without the noise of splashing the water. 
               Every moment now was full of the most intense anxiety, for Henry felt that their safety hung on the next few minutes. If time could only be given them to get out of sight of the spot where their trail came down to the water, the savages would be uncertain in what direction to look for it, and might suppose they had gone directly across the stream, and a half hour's delay in searching for it now would put the sun behind the western hills and favor them with the first shadows of night. Two hundred yards up the stream was a sharp bend, where the roaring waters came dashing around the point of a huge rock, and Henry fixed his hope on that and strained every nerve to reach it. 
               "See! dear Isaline-see!" he said encouragingly to his half-fainting companion; "if we can only turn yonder rock before the savages discover us, I think we shall be safe for the night. Press forward for your sweet life, Isaline, and all may yet be well!" 
               The distance was short; but it seemed to stretch into miles, and the moments into ages, so little was their progress in keeping with their desires. 
               A moment-a single moment-a brief second-how much of all that concerned this world and the next for them might rest upon that little scarcely-noted point of time! Should the savages reach the water one moment before the bend of the rock were turned, then captivity and suffering, the loss of all that would make life desirable, and perhaps the most agonizing tortures and the most fearful death; while that one moment gained to them might give them salvation-life, liberty, hope and joy-a return to their friends, and a future of happiness! And all this, it might be, hanging on one single moment! a duration to be measured by two beats of the heart! Never did time seem so important to them as now; and never was it so divided and subdivided into infinitesimal points, and each as it were noted by them with such fearful, trembling anxiety! 
                
               "For your sweet life, dear Isaline, press forward!" urged Henry: "only one minute more and we shall be saved!" 
               And then to himself he added: 
               "Gracious Heaven! shall we never, never reach that rock! which seems to recede as we advance!" 
               They draw near to it-nearer and nearer-panting with hope. Ten seconds more-only ten-five-three-two-one! Ah, thank God! they have turned it, and the stream below them is shut from their view! Ah, thank God indeed! They are ready to drop on their knees in the water to give humble thanks! 
               But hark to those wild Indian yells! The savages have reached the bank of the stream below just one moment too late; and they yell, partly because they are not certain where to look for the trail that is lost in the water, and partly to intimidate the poor fugitives that they believe are within hearing of their infernal voices. 
               Oh, Henry," gasped Isaline, "do you think they have seen us?" 
               "God forbid!" he answered with a shudder. "I think we escaped discovery by one bare moment! But we must not remain here, for they may run up and down the stream to find our trail! Let us try to cross here. Behind that rock is a thicket, in which we may perhaps conceal ourselves till after sunset, when the deep shadows of night will give us more freedom." 
                
               They struggled across the roaring waters, which were nearly waist deep, and ran so swiftly that it was with great difficulty they could keep from being swept downward. They reached the bank, at length, and found a bushy thicket on one side of the huge rock, into which they crawled on their hands and knees, and then stopped, panting and exhausted, and waited, watched, and listened, with such feelings as those only may know who have stood in dread suspense with the most awful of calamities impending. 
               Slowly-oh, how slowly-the bright sun went down behind the hills, as if loth to quit so eventful a scene! and then with what wildly beating hearts did our poor, trembling fugitives watch the deepening of shadow upon shadow, as the only hope that remained to them! for more than once did they hear a sound, sometimes near and sometimes distant, which convinced them the Indians were actively on the search for them. 
               Night came at last, and found them crouching beside the rock in the thicket, a little relieved from their most intense fears, but chilled and miserable in their wet garments, which were clinging to them and stiffening and cramping their limbs. 
               "Oh, Isaline," whispered Henry, for he dared not speak aloud with such keen ears listening, "would to God it were in my power to make you more comfortable, even by so little a matter as food and fire! but here I am as helpless as yourself." 
               "And quite as much in need of what you name as I," returned Isaline, in a manner that showed she was not selfish in her thoughts. 
               "Oh, no," he answered, "for I am a strong man, used to this wild, rough life; and that, so to speak, which might scarcely bend me, would destroy you!" 
               "Nay, my kind friend, I can endure more than you suppose!" she rejoined. 
               "Heaven knows it will be enough!" he sighed; "and Heaven only knows what the trial will be! I pray God it may be no greater than you can bear, and that deliverance may be near at hand!" 
               "With all my heart I say Amen to that for both! But what is to be done now, Henry? Should we not be using all these hours of darkness in endeavoring to find our way across the dreary wilderness to our companions?" 
               "I am almost afraid to ask if you think you can endure the fatigue of such a journey?" 
               "Oh, yes, I shall be quite strong the moment I can think these scenes of horror are being left behind us. It was the almost paralyzing fear of falling into the hands of these monsters of the wilderness, that made me so nearly helpless during our flight hither; and but for your kind support, I should have sunk by the way, and at this moment perhaps have been beyond the reach of hope. Most generously, nobly, did you peril your life for mine-for without me you could easily have escaped-and all I have to offer in return are my feeble thanks, my sincere gratitude, and my earnest prayers that God will bless and reward you!" 
               "Oh, Isaline," said Henry, with emotions that rendered his words almost inarticulate, "if you had a world to offer in exchange for what you have named, I would not accept it!" 
               There was more that his heart prompted him to say-more that would have brought the warm blood to her cheeks and temples-but he would not permit his lips to speak it then and there; he felt it was not a proper time and place; it seemed to his generous nature as if it would be taking unfair advantage of circumstances that would not allow her perfect freedom of reply; and he remained silent. 
               The silence was long and deep, for both now became absorbed in thoughts that neither cared to utter. In the mind of Henry there was a sweet, bright image, that was more to him than all the rest he had ever seen and known; and the soul of Isaline was filled with emotions she would not have cared to reveal. The forest was still, the wind had died away, the stars came out bright in the vault above, and nothing could be heard but the steady roar of the waters, as they swiftly rolled through their channel around the point of the projecting rock. 
               Suddenly both were startled by a strange sound, like the hooting of an owl. It might be only the cry of that night-bird, but it recalled both from their dream-like reveries, to a sense of their lonely, perilous and defenceless situation. 
               "If you are able to continue the journey, dear Isaline, it is time we were leaving this place," whispered Henry. 
               "Yes! yes!" she returned, cautiously rising to her feet; "let us leave here, Henry-let us leave here at once!" 
               "Follow me, then," he rejoined, also rising and beginning to part the bushes, "and be very careful not to make the slightest sound, for undoubtedly our savage enemies are near us." 
               He had scarcely advanced a dozen paces, when both were thrilled with horror at a wild, prolonged, quavering shriek, that echoed and re-echoed far away among the gloomy hills! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               NIGHT WANDERING. 
               "OH, Heaven! what is that?" whispered the terrified Isaline, convulsively clutching the arm of Henry. 
               "It is the same sound I have heard before," he answered, with an involuntary shudder-"the Phantom-the Demon-the dread Unknown of the forest-God only knows what!" 
               "Oh, what will become of us?" 
               "Courage, dear Isaline-courage!" rejoined Henry. "If it is from the other world, as the superstitious scouts believe, it will not harm us; and if it belongs to this world, we have less to fear from it than from the savage men we have eluded. Wherever we are, dear lady, we are in the hands of an ever-watching and all-seeing God; and let us put our faith and trust in Him who has so far mercifully preserved us through the most fearful perils!" 
               "Yes," said Isaline, resignedly, "we will put our trust in Him who alone is able to deliver us! I thank you for the consoling words! It is strange," she continued, after a momentary reflection, "that the prophecy of Rough Tom should have had such a singular fulfilment! You remember how he declared, in the most positive manner, that disaster would befall every one so unfortunate as to even hear this mysterious Unknown; and how true the prediction has been in our case, our situation here tells." 
               "To my mind," returned Henry, "there is no connection between the prediction and the facts. It is an easy matter to declare that misfortune will come upon all who venture upon a long journey through a perilous wilderness, for the chances are that the prophecy will in some degree be verified; but beyond that I have no faith in idle signs and omens. What has happened to us, would have happened had there been no mysterious Unknown abroad, and we shall neither be the better nor the worse for what we have heard to-night. What I do fear, are the living, savage men who have so closely followed us, and I pray God we may be able to put leagues between us and them before the light of another day. Come! let us move on, again, cautiously but bravely, and leave the rest in the hands of Him who notes the fall of a sparrow." 
               Slowly, cautiously, and almost noiselessly, Henry again parted the bushes and moved through them, holding one little trembling hand of Isaline in his-leading her forward through the darkness, with the fond hope that he might ever so continue to lead her through the journey of life. 
               Having at last cleared the thicket, without anything further to alarm them, they ascended, with great caution, a steep, rocky ridge, with a few bushes growing here and there, and occasionally a small tree, which evidently had not felt the force of the tornado, and which led Henry to believe they had now got clear of the track of devastation. 
               On reaching the top of this ridge, they paused, under the deep shadow of an oak, to look about them and arrange the course to be taken as most likely to carry them back to their companions. 
               They were wet, chilled, hungry, and not a little fatigued; but they regarded these things as mere trifles in comparison with their almost wonderful deliverance from the dangers which had so closely beset them, and their hearts were too full of gratitude for the mercies received to have a repining thought for the misfortunes which had pressed upon them. The storm had all passed and gone, the heavens were now clear and serene, and myriads of stars were shining out brightly from their far-off regions in space. They looked around them, in the dim light, but there was little they could see, and nothing that was cheering. The scene was still and gloomy, and the shadows of night lay too deep on the earth to permit them to trace more than a faint outline of the nearest woods and hills. To the northward the hill they were on rose still higher and obstructed a view of the country in that direction; but as the distance was short to the summit of this elevation, Henry proposed they should go to the top and take a full survey of the landscape, saying it was possible they might discover the camp-fire of their enemies, which, under the circumstances, was a matter of great importance, as it would enable them to shape their course so as to avoid an accidental contact. They went up the acclivity accordingly, and almost the first thing they saw was the light of a fire in the valley to the eastward. 
               "There they are," he whispered; "and if only you were in a place of safety, and my friend Tom and a few of his brave companions were with me, nothing would suit me better than to go down and take them by surprise." 
               "Let us go!" returned Isaline, nervously; "let us get as far from them as possible while we are favored by the darkness!" 
               "Yes," rejoined Henry, "let us go at once. I think I know my course now, and, with God's help, we will leave a vicinity where our perils have been so great." 
               "And do you think it possible for us to find our way back to our companions to-night?" anxiously inquired Isaline. "How can you tell in the darkness what course to take?" 
               "I have thought of that," said Henry; "and as we cannot now be far from the Licking River, it will perhaps be best to go on till we come to that, and then it will be an easy matter to keep along its right bank to the Blue Lick ford, where our companions, if they have met with no disaster, are probably now encamped." 
                
               "Oh, what if they have been assailed by the savages?" shuddered Isaline. 
               "I have little fear of that," replied Henry; "for, unless abroad in greater force than I think, they would hardly venture against so many deadly rifles. They are probably a small party, who have crossed the Ohio with a view of attacking and plundering such isolated settlers as they may chance upon; and it may be they are the same who attempted to decoy us ashore, and who have since crossed and leisurely followed the train, in the hope of cutting off a few stragglers. We will leave them now, however, I trust forever." 
               Henry and Isaline now set forward together, to make their way, as best they could in the darkness to the Licking River. It was a dreary journey they had before them-for the night, which concealed their trail from their enemies, also hid from their view their own best course, so that they depended as much upon chance or Providence in going right as upon reason and calculation. It was literally a plunge in the dark-up hill and down-through woods of trees, and thickets of bushes and cane-now around a marsh and now across a stream-till poor Isaline was almost ready to faint from exhaustion and fatigue. 
               At last they came to a steeper and higher hill than any they had before ascended, and Henry said: 
               "From the best calculation I have been able to make, dear Isaline, we are now but a little way from the Licking River-for I feel almost certain it flows through the valley on the other side of this acclivity." 
               "And how far do you suppose we are from the ford?" she inquired, in a feeble and dejected tone. 
               "I hardly dare guess," he replied, in a manner that expressed much uneasiness and anxiety; "but I fear it is much too far for you to walk there tonight; for we have been much longer in getting here than I expected, and I know you must be nearly worn out. Oh, it is terrible to think how you are suffering! and that I have no shelter, food and fire to offer you! no place where you can rest and be refreshed!" 
               "I must confess I do feel the worse for my journey," returned Isaline, "perhaps because I have never been accustomed to such physical exertions; but I will try to go on, hoping and praying the Lord will give me strength enough to accomplish my deliverance!" 
               "It is absolutely necessary for you to have rest," said Henry, "or you will be overdone; but the night air is cool, and to sit down in your wet garments I am afraid will do you great injury. If you were to fall sick here-But God forbid! I dare not think of it! Let me see! Something must be done! Fortunately I have my flint, steel, and tinder-box with me, and can soon start a fire. If I only had my rifle also, I should be comparatively happy, for then I should feel almost certain of taking you through in safety-if not to our companions, at least to the nearest station. But do not despair, dear Isaline-do not despair! Once on the other side of the Licking, we shall not have to go far, I think, to discover some settler; and if we find the way to the ford too long, we will cross the stream and take our chances over there." 
               "Is that side of the Licking more settled than this?" 
               "Yes, a great deal more, for as yet but few have ventured to build their cabins on this side of the stream." 
               "But how shall we cross the river, Henry?" 
               "If you are not afraid, I will swim over with you-or we will find some old logs and lash them together." 
               "And should we be safe on the other side?" 
               "I think so." 
               "Oh that we were there now, then!" 
               "Will you venture to let me swim across with you?" 
               "If you think the risk of life is not too great!" 
               "If you will follow my directions in every particular, and not become alarmed, dear Isaline, I am certain I can carry you safely over." 
               "Would you cross to-night?" 
               "I would rather have daylight for it." 
               "But we have not yet come to the river." 
               "True! and before we swim it, it may be as well to find it," said Henry, with a light laugh-not because cause he felt in a light or merry mood, but that he might seem so to his companion, in order to raise her spirits. 
               They toiled up the hill slowly, and, on reaching the summit, looked down upon what might have been a bottomless pit-for so thick were the trees and bushes, and so deep the valley, that it was covered with a pall of darkness impenetrable to the eye. 
               "Oh, I can never venture down there!" shuddered Isaline. 
               "It is the valley of the Licking, I am almost certain!" said Henry. 
               "Say rather the Valley of the Shadow of Death!" 
               "No, dear Isaline, we have just passed through that to get here. Come! do not be discouraged or alarmed! for so far all has gone better than we could have hoped." 
               "Yes, and God knows how thankful I am to Him for all his mercies, in so wonderfully preserving us through that awful tempest, and delivering us from almost certain captivity, if not death!" 
               "If I am not mistaken in the character of the country," said Henry, "we shall, by keeping along on this ridge of hills, soon come to a ledge of rocks, where we can find some secure retreat-some little cave, perhaps, in which we can kindle a fire and get some rest. If we do find such a place, dear Isaline, would it not be well for you to take a short sleep, and let me stand guard? and even were you to sleep all night, and renew the journey at daylight, would it not be better than to go on as we have done in this dark uncertainty?" 
               "I will be advised by you, Henry," she answered. "I confess I do feel the need of rest, and will take it if you think it can be done with safety." 
               "Undoubtedly it can, Isaline-for we are at least some miles from our savage enemies by this time, and they cannot possibly find our trail till daylight, if at all; and the chances are, that, having failed to overtake us before dark, they will not attempt to renew the pursuit." 
               "But you need sleep as well as myself, Henry!" 
               "And I can get what I need, and guard our camp also," he replied, "for I have been so long used to this wild, watchful life, that I can sleep sitting, or even standing, and the least sound will wake me." 
               "Oh, what will our friends think of our long absence?" said Isaline: "my poor servants will nearly go demented!" 
               "There will be the greater joy, then, when we return." 
               "If we ever do!" sighed Isaline. 
               "Nay, you must not think that, but look hopefully to that future which I trust has many bright days in store for both of us." 
               "Who could have predicted this morning that we should be wandering here in this wild, gloomy place to night, in this sad condition! Truly we know not what a day or an hour may bring forth!" 
                
               "Truly we do not, indeed!" responded Henry. "And it is even so in the moral journey of life. If we turn aside never so little from the straight path of rectitude, we cannot foretell the amount of pain and suffering that will ensue." 
               Thus they continued to converse as they slowly picked their way forward along the summit of the hills, around the imbedded rocks, through the bushes, and under the trees that had stretched up their tall trunks and cast their deep shadows over the ground for centuries. 
               Suddenly the deep stillness was broken by a long, plaintive howl from the dark valley below, which was answered by another far in the distance. Isaline trembled with fear, and almost convulsively clutched her companion. 
               "Be not alarmed, dear one!" said Henry; "it is only a wolf or two, and they will not venture to attack so formidable a creature as man at this season of the year." 
               "I know I am a little coward," returned Isaline, "and I fear you will lose whatever good opinion you may have formed of me." 
               "Nay, dear lady, if you will believe me, I think you a remarkable heroine-for the very fewest number of your sex, with as little experience of this wild life of danger as you have had, would have borne up as bravely; and as to my losing my good opinion of you-ah, Isaline, if I dared to express my feelings, you would have little cause to repeat the observation!" 
               To this Isaline did not reply, and the two moved on for some distance in silence. 
               Suddenly again they were both startled by a savage growl, coming up from the thick darkness, a few feet below them to the right. 
               "Oh, Father in Heaven!" gasped Isaline, again clutching her companion. 
               "This is more serious!" he said, throwing his left arm around her and drawing his knife with his right hand. "It is a bear-perhaps with cubs-and we must give the beast a wide berth. Here! this way, as quick as you can, and with as little noise as possible!" 
               Both hurried off to the left, and the animal did not follow them. These sudden alarms, in connection with what had gone before, made Isaline so weak that she would have been unable to proceed but for the support of her companion. 
               Soon after this they reached a point where the trees were more dwarfed, the bushes somewhat thinner, and the soil more rocky; and a few hundred yards further on they came to a ledge, similar to what Henry had pictured in his mind. 
               "Here," he said, "I feel almost certain we shall find a place where we can pass the night in safety." 
               The rocks were of all sizes and shapes, and our two friends began to move in among them with greater caution; Henry making the best exploration he could in the darkness for some cave-like opening, or cave itself, where his fair companion could be both sheltered and concealed. While they were thus occupied and conversing with each other, both were once more fearfully startled, this time by a human voice, which came up in a deep, guttural tone from the black pit below, gruffly articulating the words: 
               "Who you?" 
               "Oh, merciful Heaven! we are captured at last!" groaned Isaline, ready to sink with dismay-for both she and Henry believed it was the voice of a savage that had addressed them. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE WHITE INDIAN. 
               WITH his knife still in his hand, and one arm supporting Isaline, for a few moments Henry stood irresolute, undecided whether to yield himself a peaceable prisoner, or defend himself till overpowered or cut down, or attempt another escape in the darkness. Though he could see nothing of the owner of the voice, he doubted not that both himself and companion had been seen by the speaker, and it might be that a deadly rifle was at that very instant bearing upon them. This vague conjecture was the next moment rendered almost a certainty to his mind by the guttural words of the unknown: 
               "Speak who? me shoot!" 
               "We are two quiet persons who have lost our way in the forest," answered Henry, now fully decided to surrender without resistance. 
               "Throw gun, tomahawk, knife-me come!" returned the voice from below, the speaker still remaining invisible. 
               "Unfortunately I have neither gun nor tomahawk, and my knife is at your service, if you insist upon having it." 
               "No un'stand much speak!" rejoined the invisible unknown. 
                
               Henry reasserted, in the most simple language he could frame, that his only weapon was a knife, which he would yield up to his, the stranger's, demand. 
               "T'other one?" 
               "She is a squaw, and has nothing to fight with." 
               "Stand, me come-run, me shoot!" said the unknown. 
               "We will wait for you," returned Henry; and added, in a lower tone: "Because there seems to be no alternative." 
               There was a noise as of some one cautiously moving up from the black pit, but it was more than a minute before even so much as the shadow of a figure became visible to the strained eyes of Henry and Isaline. First a head dimly appeared, slowly emerging out of the black gloom, and then a body gradually followed; but whether or not the dread form advancing upon them was that of a fierce savage in his war paint, they could not tell. This shadowy figure continued to approach, slowly and cautiously; and when quite near, Henry perceived that a rifle was held before it in such a position that it could be discharged at any object in an instant. 
               "Don't shoot!" said Henry; "we yield ourselves prisoners at once." 
               "Throw fight down!" said the same gruff voice. 
               Henry understood this to mean that he must throw down his weapons; and casting his knife on the ground, under the belief that it could avail him nothing against the rifle of the unknown, he held up both hands, with the open palms outward. A word to Isaline caused her to do the same. 
               The strange unknown now came close up to both and peered into their faces. It was light enough to disclose the general outline of the lineaments at a distance of six or eight inches, and Henry was surprised to see, instead of a savage, the face of a white man. The head was covered with a sort of cap, made from the skin of some wild beast; and the garment which inclosed the body, without sleeves, leaving the arms bare, was likewise of the same material. 
               "You are not an Indian?" said Henry, inquiringly. 
               "Oogh! me no Injun-me white!" was the reply. 
               "Thank God for that! I was afraid we had fallen into the hands of a savage!" cried Henry, with an internal relief that his words only faintly expressed. 
               "Me white!" repeated the other, in a tone of satisfaction; "me Injun long time!" 
               "Ah, I understand! You were born white, but have spent most of your life with the Indians, which accounts for your speech being so much like theirs?" 
               "Oogh! me white-long time Injun-no un'stand much speak Englee!" returned the other, picking up and examining the knife which Henry had thrown down. 
               "Do you live with the Indians now?" inquired Henry. 
                
               "Me live alone." 
               "Where?" 
               The stranger pointed down the hill. 
               "Have you a cabin there?" 
               "Oogh! wigwam!" 
               "You will not hurt us?" 
               "Methoto
                     Shawanese for Buffalo.
                   no hurt." 
               "Is your Indian name Methoto?" 
               "Oogh! Methoto me!" he replied, tapping his breast. "Buffalo you call um." 
               "You will give us something to eat, Methoto?" 
               "Who you?" 
               "We were travelling through the country, when the storm overtook us, our horses ran off, and we have lost our way." 
               "Oogh! big storm!" 
               "Yes, terrible!" 
               "Want eat?" asked the white Indian, pointing to his mouth and addressing Isaline. 
               "Oh, yes, if you will be so kind!" she answered. 
               "Come!" he said, and at once began to move down the hill. 
               Both Henry and Isaline followed, winding down among the rocks and through the bushes for several minutes, till at last the stranger opened the door into some kind of a hovel, and in his gruff way bade them enter. There was a sort of rude chimney and fireplace on one side of the habitation, with a few smouldering embers on the hearth, and by the dim light of these our unfortunate friends could see that the dwelling was small, probably only contained one room, and furnished with only a kettle or two, a slab bench, and a pallet of skins. 
               A large piece of fresh venison was depending from the antlers of a stag in one corner; and this Methoto immediately took down and laid on the bench before his guests, at the same time returning Henry his knife and making signs that he was to cut off what he needed for himself and companion. He then set about kindling a fire; and Henry, with a feeling of cheerfulness he had not experienced for many a long hour, said to Isaline: 
               "Our seemingly worst disasters are, by the goodness of Providence, turned into blessings!" 
               "For which I am more thankful than I can express!" she replied, with tearful eyes. 
               The fire was soon started, and by its cheerful blaze the weary guests for the first time had a fair view of the appearance of their strange host. As before remarked, he was dressed altogether in skins, with the hairy side out, and looked almost as much like a beast as a human being. A skin, rudely sewed together at the back, with two arm-holes through it, covered his body, and was belted around his waist, and reached down nearly to his knees, where it was met by leggins of the same kind; but his arms were bare, and, from long exposure to the weather, had become of a dirty tan-color. He had put aside his rifle and powder horn; but in his belt, ready to his hand, were a tomahawk and hunting knife. About the face he was not particularly ill-looking, though evidently with a nature somewhat brutalized by the life he had lived. His eyes were of a cold, grayish hue, and set wide apart, with heavy, shaggy brows meeting over a short, flat nose. His mouth-a feature in which so much of character is usually denoted-was large and sensual-though the peculiar stare of the eyes, and general immobility of the whole countenance, indicated a dull, sluggish, phlegmatic temperament. Without being instinctively wicked or cruel, you could see he was a man to be feared whenever his worst passions should be aroused. In stature he was short, but his frame was heavily built, and he evidently possessed great strength. He appeared to be of German extraction and quite young, or at least under five-and-twenty years of age. 
               It was not easy to converse with this strange being, owing to his limited use and understanding of the English tongue; but Henry managed, by a series of simple questions, to ascertain that he did not know his own name, parentage, or place of nativity-that he had been captured by the Indians when a mere child, if not an infant, and been adopted and brought up by his captor, who was the only father of whom he had any knowledge. 
               A year or two before the date of our story, he and his Indian father, and two Indian brothers, had crossed the Ohio and entered Kentucky, with the view of getting a few white scalps, stealing some horses, and carrying off what plunder they could. One night they had come upon a solitary cabin, occupied by three women, (apparently mother and daughters,) and a blind negro boy. Admittance having been refused them, they had cut away the door and murdered three of the parties-one of the girls making her escape by leaping through a back window and running into the forest. He made Henry understand that the girl they had killed was in his eyes very handsome, and that he had felt so badly about what had been done, that he had at once resolved to leave the Indians and return to his own race. He had soon found an opportunity. After they had plundered the house of such things as they could carry with them, and had fired it, they had started on to hunt up new victims; but when they had got well into the forest, again, he had given the others the slip, and had made his way to a neighboring station, where, in the best manner he could, he had disclosed the startling facts. A number of the garrison had at once set off in pursuit of the savages, taking him along as guide. He had gone unwillingly, for the idea of seeing his friends destroyed, (and, whatever their deeds, they had ever been friends to him,) had been a terrible one; but he had been told that a refusal to comply with their commands would subject him to instant death. The result of the whole affair was, that the Indians had been followed, found, and slain; and that, after their death, he had himself narrowly escaped being hung by the infuriated whites. Not wishing to return to the Indians, and finding nothing congenial among those of his own race, he had wandered about in the depths of the forest for a time, and had finally fixed his abode in the solitary place where he now was, and where his hovel had been built by himself without assistance from any one. In fact he was almost certain it had never been seen before by other eyes, for our friends were the first guests that had ever entered it. 
               He now lived a wild, solitary life, his time being chiefly employed in hunting, fishing, and raising a small patch of corn on an opening about a mile from his dwelling. His shanty was cleverly concealed among rocks and bushes on the bank of the Licking. He owned a canoe, which he had fashioned himself, after the manner of the Indians, from the bark of a tree and the skin of a deer, and this was so light that he could put it on his shoulder and carry it a mile without stopping to rest. He held no communication with his fellow-beings except when compelled by necessity to visit some station for the purpose of exchanging his skins for powder, lead, fish-hooks, and such things as he could not do without, and then he only stayed barely long enough to transact his business, and was always glad to get safely back to his hermit-like home. 
               Such, in brief, was the story and life of this strange being, which Henry drew from him, little by little, while occupied in preparing something for his fair companion and himself to eat. 
               The fire itself was a very cheerful thing to see and feel after such a gloomy drenching; and as Isaline sat on the bench drawn up before it, and warmed herself and dried her wet garments, she thought she could not be too thankful to that kind Providence which had not only preserved her through the most fearful perils, but had led her steps to a place of such comparative comfort. 
               Henry toasted several slices of the venison, and the host brought forward a horn-cup filled with salt, and a hard cake, made of pounded corn mixed with water and baked in the ashes. The world has unquestionably produced many a better meal than our friends feasted on that night, but it would have been a difficult matter to have made them believe so then, and it is probable that they never in their lives ate anything with a sharper appetite and a keener relish. 
               "There," said Isaline, when she had finished her supper and washed down the last morsel with a cup of cold spring-water, which the strange host brought expressly for his guests, "I feel like a new being, and more thankful for all God's mercies and goodness than I can find words to express. But while I thank Him, let me not forget our kind entertainer, who, whatever his past deeds and sins, is at least deserving serving of my poor gratitude for what he has done for us to-night!" 
               The latter had thrown himself down, in Turkish fashion, near one corner of the fireplace, and, with his back partly turned toward his guests, appeared for the time to be wholly absorbed in looking at the bright coals. Isaline went up and touched him on the shoulder. Perhaps his revery, whatever it was, had carried him into some dreadful peril-for no sooner did her hand rest upon him, than, with a bound, that drew from her a startled cry, he came full upon his feet, and faced round, like a tiger at bay, with his tomahawk gleaming above his head, ready to fall with a fatal stroke. Quick as lightning Henry sprung forward to snatch Isaline from the impending blow, and at the same instant the white Indian discovered his mistake and cast his weapon from him, with an exclamation that showed he condemned his own foolish act. 
               "Me 'fraid white man catch Methoto for hang!" he said, by way of explanation. "Oogh! me fool! No hurt squaw!" 
               Reassured by his words and manner, Isaline, though still somewhat nervous from her sudden fright, again approached him, but more timidly, and, holding out her hand, said: 
               "I want to thank you, Methoto, for all your kindness to us!" 
               The white savage took the proffered hand in one of his, and then she regretted she had so particularly called his attention to herself, for he fixed his cold, gray eyes upon her, with a look that expressed more admiration than she wished to excite. 
               "Squaw much handsome-big heap!" he said. 
               He stared at her, with a look that made her afraid; and when she would have withdrawn her hand and shrunk away, he would not let her go. 
               "Squaw like Methoto?" he asked. 
               "You have been very kind to us, and I wanted to thank you, that is all!" she answered, changing color. 
               "Oogh! good wigwam!" he said, moving his other arm majestically, and casting his eyes around him, as if to show that in that single word he comprehended his entire possessions. "Me like squaw keep wigwam, big heap!" 
               This was certainly a rather sudden and novel mode of courtship, and, under different circumstances, might have amused both Isaline and Henry; but now it only excited a feeling of annoyance, allied to fear-for there was no telling to what extremes such a strange being might be carried by his whims and passions. Isaline, frightened and embarrassed, glanced appealingly at Henry, who said, very quietly, but firmly: 
               "Squaw girl is too young to be Methoto's wife now." 
               Instantly the cold, gray eyes of the host were turned and fastened searchingly upon him. 
                
               "Oogh! guess white brave want squaw girl wife himself!" he said. 
               "She is going home to her father," returned Henry, in the same quiet tone, "and will not be anybody's wife at present." 
               Methoto looked at him steadily for some moments, then turned and stared at Isaline till her eyes fell, and then let go of her hand and drew a deep sigh. 
               Now really afraid of him, Isaline drew as far back as she could and out of the light of the fire. Methoto followed her with his eyes, as one might mechanically do while thinking of something else, and then turned and fixed his gaze upon the bright coals as before. 
               "After all, I would rather be in the forest than here!" Isaline now whispered to Henry. 
               "I do not think you have anything more to fear," he answered. "It was probably a whim that came upon him at the moment and is already forgotten. Act as though nothing had happened and leave me to manage him. I want you to remain here and get what sleep you can, so that you can start refreshed at the first streak of day. I will keep watch over you, dear lady; and believe me, with so precious a charge in my care, I will not neglect my duty!" 
               "No, my dear friend, I know you would not," replied Isaline; "I had no fear of that; but if this whim, as you call it, should return to him again, there is no knowing but that he might murder you to get entire possession of me!" 
                
               "Do not be alarmed, dear Isaline!" smiled Henry. "I am not one to be easily put out of the way. If the worst should come to the worst, we are simply man to man, and the scouts would tell you I am not an adversary to be despised." 
               "But he is so much stronger than you!" 
               "The battle is not always to the strong, nor the race to the swift, dear lady!" 
               "But he is well armed!" 
               "I at least have my knife, with the chances of getting hold of his rifle if I should need it. No, no, dear Isaline, give over your fears, I beg of you, and sleep as safely here as if under the roof of your honored father." 
               "Oh, my dear father! would to Heaven I were under his roof this night indeed!" she sighed. "But I will do as you think best, Henry-I will put my whole trust in you." 
               "Thank you, dear Isaline! and may Heaven so guide me aright that you may always feel you can safely put your trust in me! Now then say nothing, but let me arrange everything with our strange host." 
               He turned to the figure before the fire, which now had the motionless attitude of a statue, and in a low tone spoke the name of Methoto. He had to repeat it twice, and the last time quite loudly, ere the strange being seemed to hear him. Then he looked around, but in a rather stolid manner. 
               "The squaw girl is very tired and would like a place to sleep for the night," said Henry, pointing to Isaline, and accompanying his words with such signs as made their meaning perfectly clear. 
               "Oogh!" grunted the white Indian. 
               He then went to the corner where his own couch of skins was spread, and, selecting three of the best, one of bear and two of deer, returned and laid them carefully down before the fire, with the remark: 
               "Much wet-fire heap good!" 
               He then went out and brought in some more wood, with which he started the blaze afresh; after which he barred his door, (there appeared to be no windows,) handed Henry a couple of skins for his own use, and, with merely a grunt for a good night, threw himself down on his own rude bed, and seemed immediately to fall asleep. 
               "There," said Henry to Isaline, in a low tone, "you see our host sets us an example of confidence, by putting himself completely in our power; and now that you have nothing to fear, I trust you will be able to get a refreshing sleep." 
               "But have we nothing to fear, Henry?" whispered Isaline, with a suspicious glance toward their apparently slumbering host. "Is this strange being really putting good faith in us and actually slumbering? or is this all feigned for some purpose?" 
               "Whether real or false," answered Henry, who had his own suspicions, "it will make no difference in my vigilance, dear Isaline; and as you have promised to put faith in and be guided by me, I must now insist upon your lying down and getting what rest you can!" 
               Isaline, without further demur, complied with his request; and with the bear-skin spread on the ground, and the two deer-skins for a pillow, she laid herself down before the fire, which, except for her still wet clothes, would have rendered the place uncomfortably warm for her without other covering, but which, under the circumstances, produced a very pleasurable sensation. 
               Not to seem to be on the watch, Henry also cast himself down between the host and herself, with his face turned toward the former, so that every movement could be seen, firmly resolved not to close his eyes for a single moment throughout the night. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               NEW TROUBLES. 
               WHOEVER has passed the night in a sick chamber, where constant vigilance has been required, is aware how difficult it is at times, in the solemn stillness, to keep the senses on the alert. However wakeful the watcher may be at first, and however firmly resolved that the drowsy god shall not approach and take him from his guard, he almost invariably finds himself arousing with a start from a nodding dream; and then, while in the very act of fortifying himself against a repetition of the same, he again yields to the somniferous influence. 
               Such was the case with Henry Colburn. For the first hour or so he easily kept awake, thinking over the strange and wonderful events of the day, and watching the uncouth and fantastic shadows that the flickering fire-light caused to dance on the ceiling and walls of that old hovel, and which gradually changed to darker and more grotesque shapes, along with a deeper surrounding gloom, as the blaze became gradually weaker and weaker, till they finally disappeared as the last flame expired over the glowing embers. There was more wood on the hearth; but the night was far from being cold, and the room was already uncomfortably warm, and so Henry resolved to only now and then put on a small stick, not for heat, but merely for the purpose of keeping the place from settling into a deep and fearful darkness. But while thinking about doing this-yet delaying it from minute to minute, for fear of awaking Isaline, whom he now believed to be asleep-he lost himself. 
               He awoke with a start, as if from the sensation left by some horrible dream which he could not remember. It seemed to him that his eyes had been closed only for a moment; and yet, by the dull embers and almost total darkness of the place, he knew it had been a long, long time for a sentinel to have been neglecting his duty-perhaps an hour-perhaps more. He turned his eyes toward the corner where his strange host had retired to rest, and, with a feeling of horror that made his hair stand, he dimly saw the shadowy figure of Methoto standing upright and having something in his hands which looked like a rifle. 
               Was his host's sleeping, then, a mere pretence? and his whole object murder? Perhaps he wished to return to the Indians again, and desired to take them a white scalp as a peace-offering! Or, again, as Isaline had suggested, perhaps his design was to kill her protector to get possession of herself! 
               But what was to be done, to save himself and her? To start up suddenly, and attempt to defend himself, would only be to hasten his doom; while by keeping perfectly quiet, he would first know if his suspicions were well founded, and, if so, might find some opportunity tunity to take his adversary at an advantage. If the white Indian really did intend to kill him, it was hardly reasonable to suppose he would shoot him while believing him to be asleep; but would probably make the attempt first with his knife or tomahawk, having his rifle ready in case of need; and as he himself had his own knife in his belt, perhaps he might, by waiting for his opportunity, take the other by surprise and use it with fatal effect: so he remained still, but keenly on the watch. 
               Presently the grim, shadowy figure came slowly and stealthily toward him; and with a motion imperceptible in the deep gloom, Henry drew his knife from its sheath and quietly prepared himself for a tiger-like spring. Nearer and still nearer came the dread host, and with a step so light that it could not be heard. When within a few feet of him, Henry could see that it was indeed his rifle which he had in his hand; and the fear that he really intended to use it, made him secretly tremble, brave though he was; but now, to his great relief, the host stopped and rested the weapon against the wall, and then went quietly to a corner of the hearth and sat down, doubling his legs under him, in Turkish fashion, as he had done once or twice before that evening, and seemed to become absorbed in looking at the dying embers. 
               "Can it be that I have mistaken him?" thought our hero; "and that, after all, what I supposed to be a murderous design, was only a civil intention not to disturb me? But then why did he have his rifle in his hand? and why did he bring it forward and place it so near him? Perhaps he had a wicked design, and has changed it! or it may be he still retains it, but is resolved upon a little delay in its execution!" 
               Like a beast upon its prey, ready for the fatal spring, Henry kept his eyes riveted upon Methoto. The latter sat there for nearly an hour, silent and motionless, and then got up quietly, and stealthily went back to his pallet of skins, leaving his rifle standing against the wall. 
               "He is a strange, eccentric being, and perhaps I have suspected him without just cause!" thought Henry. 
               By this time only a few sparks of fire were remaining, and the hut was almost in total darkness. Henry would have got up and kindled more, but Isaline appeared to be sleeping very sweetly, and he was afraid of waking her. Fortunately she had known nothing of his suspicions and fears. 
               "And after all," he thought, "we may be as safe without a light as with one, for I will keep on my guard the rest of the night, and should this strange being attempt to murder me, the darkness will as effectually conceal my movements as his." 
               He did not sleep again that night, though at times the desire was so strong that he found it very difficult to keep from yielding to it. To him the night proved very long and tedious, but to Isaline very refreshing. After the host had retired the second time, he appeared to sleep very soundly-at least he did not get up again, nor give his wakeful guest any further cause for suspicion or alarm. 
               When the first streak of day began to show through here and there a crevice of the hut, Henry arose, Isaline awoke, and Methoto started up at the same time. At that moment Henry could easily have seized the rifle of his host; and reflecting how comparatively helpless was the condition of himself and companion, he was tempted to do so, and make both secure; but there was something in the act that did not accord with his open, generous nature; and, after the kind hospitality he had received, he did not feel justified in thus showing his suspicion. 
               Giving himself a shake, like a wild beast rising from his lair, Methoto came forward, took up his rifle, opened the pan, to see that the priming was all right, and then went back and set it up in a corner; and Henry, who watched him closely all the time, was glad he had not touched the weapon. 
               By this time Isaline had risen to her feet, with the remark: 
               "I do believe I have been asleep." 
               "I rather think so," smiled Henry, "for many a long hour has passed since you lay down." 
               "Hours, do you say, Henry?" 
               "Yes, for it is now morning." 
               "Is it possible? And we have all been safely preserved through the night! Thank God for that!" 
                
               "Yes, day is once more breaking upon the world, and God send it may be a day of deliverance for us! How do you feel, dear Isaline?" 
               "Oh, refreshed and strong, as if I could do wonders in travelling." 
               "I am glad to hear it, for we have another long, hard journey before us!" said Henry. 
               Then turning to their host, he inquired the distance to the ford near the Blue Licks. 
               Methoto shook his head. 
               "Do you know where the place is?" 
               "Oogh! me know." 
               "How far could the sun go," pursued Henry, pointing to the east, and making a motion over his head with his hand, to indicate the movement of that luminary from its rising to its setting, "while you were walking there?" 
               He had to repeat the question some two or three times before the other could understand him. 
               "Oogh! so much!" replied Methoto at length, indicating by a similar motion of his hand about one-fourth of the distance. 
               "That is about three hours," said Henry to Isaline, "and so I judge the distance to be some ten or twelve miles, which shows that we have been getting further off instead of nearer." 
               "Should we not start at once, then?" anxiously inquired Isaline. "I am afraid the Indians will set out on our trail as soon as it is light." 
               "They would have to find it first," replied Henry, "and I hardly think they will make the attempt, considering how many hours we have had the start of them. Still it may be prudent for us to set out as soon as we have broken our fast." 
               "If we could cross the Licking at once, I should feel much safer, Henry!" 
               "True; and doubtless we can do so, for Methoto has a canoe, and will probably set us across." 
               He explained to the white Indian, by words and signs, what he wanted, and the other nodded assent. Then taking up some two or three short, rough slabs at one end of the shanty, the host pointed down to the little vessel, which was resting on the slope of the hill, among some bushes, a few feet above the high water of the muddy stream that was sullenly flowing past. 
               "Oogh! me paddle over water!" said Methoto. 
               "Thank you!" returned Henry. "And now if you will give us something more to eat, and then put us over, we will always think well of Methoto." 
               The other at once set about kindling the fire; and having done this, he produced his venison and corn cakes; and Henry, acting as cook, soon prepared a meal for Isaline and himself, exactly like the one of the night before. Of this they both partook quite heartily, and by the time it was finished the bright sun of a cloudless day was beginning to shine upon the rocky summit of the hill above them. 
               Feeling now quite secure of escaping from the savages who had pursued them, even should they find their last trail, Henry proposed to Isaline that they should step out and look around them before crossing the river. 
               "Let the delay be very brief then," said Isaline, "for I confess I do not feel at all safe on this side of the Licking." 
               On going outside, the first thing that struck them was the curious manner in which the hut of Methoto was concealed in the midst of a clump of high bushes, which, on three sides, only left a small portion of it visible, that next to the river being the most perceptible, but only from the narrow bank between it and the water, or from the stream itself, or from the shore directly opposite. The hill above was steep and rocky, with here and there a stunted tree, or a few bushes, shooting up from between the stones; and even Henry, experienced as he was in wood-craft, admitted that he might have passed along within a few yards of the hut without seeing it at all. The scenery around was wild, and in some places grand and solemn, though the sun was rising brightly and a few birds were singing merrily. The Licking, raised some feet by the rain of the previous day, was rolling along its muddy waters at a greater speed than usual and with a sullen murmur, bearing downward sticks and bushes and now and then the old decaying trunk of some tree that it had floated off from the shore. From the other side rose a steep, heavily-wooded hill, whose foliage of green leaves looked sombre and mysterious, and excited in Isaline a feeling of awe and dread at the thought of entering and picking her way through it with so slight a protection as her companion might afford her from the dangers therein concealed. 
               "May Heaven be propitious, and enable us to rejoin our companions before another awful night sets in!" she said; "for we might not even find another place of rest as comfortable as the one we are about to leave." 
               They now went back into the hut, and Henry told his host that if he would set them across the river they would resume their journey and part from him with many thanks for his kindness, and would besides so represent him to their friends that he should some day receive a proper reward for his hospitality. As soon as he could be made to understand this, he seemed much pleased, and returned several nods and grunts of apparent satisfaction. 
               "Oogh! white man no hang Methoto?" he said. 
               "Never, where I have the power to prevent it!" rejoined Henry. "Poor fellow!" he said, speaking his thoughts aloud rather than addressing the other; "yours is a hard case indeed-leading this lonely, solitary life, without a single friend or companion, a fugitive from the Indians, and rejected by your own race! This must not be; something must be done for you; for even though your crime was great, it must be considered that you acted according to your savage education and immediately repented and atoned for the deed as far as lay in your power. There are few of us, God knows, but what have done some wrong which has merited far greater punishment than we have received; and until a man gets his just deserts for his own sins, he should not bear too hard upon the sins of his neighbor!" 
               Methoto listened to Henry and looked pleased; for though he could only guess at his meaning, he knew from his tone and manner that it was kindly meant. 
               As our friends were now anxious to be on the move, Methoto led the way to the canoe, which was pushed up into some bushes under the lower side of the hut, the latter resting upon the ground on the upper side, and a couple of rocks on that next to the river, with a space between them, underneath the foundation logs or sills, large enough to contain a fair-sized boat. The canoe, as before remarked, was small and light, being intended only for carrying one person on the water, or being by that person in turn carried on the land; and when Isaline came to examine it, and looked at the dark, turbid stream flowing past, she felt like shrinking away from the danger she could so clearly foresee. It was about seven feet in length, not very deep, widest in the middle, round on the bottom, and pointed at the ends, the body of it composed of bark, with skins drawn around the outside and secured so as to hold it together and keep it from leaking. To one of steady nerve, good balance, and great skill in the navigation of such a craft, it might do for a conveyance over the water; but Isaline felt that she would upset it before getting a dozen feet from the shore, even could she get into it at all, of which she had some serious doubts. 
               "I would not dare to trust myself in that!" she said to Henry. 
               "I am afraid it will not answer," he replied, with something like a sigh, "and thus is lost the hope of crossing the river here, for in the condition the stream is now I would not undertake to swim it with you as I proposed last night." 
               "And is there no other way of getting across?" asked Isaline, with an anxious look. 
               "I suppose we might construct a raft if we had time; but it would take hours, to say the least, to collect the materials and put them into a safe condition for the venture, and thus the day would be lost." 
               "And our foes be upon us!" added Isaline, shuddering at the thought. "Oh, what is to be done?" 
               "I fear there is nothing better for us than to continue our journey on this side of the stream." 
               "But is it not necessary for us to cross the river?" 
               "Somewhere it is." 
               "And will not the ford be too deep for us, in case our companions shall have gone over?" 
               "It may be," replied Henry, with a troubled look. "But surely there must be some way for us to cross this stream!" he pursued, musing seriously. "Let me think! Ha! I have it! You must go over in the canoe, Isaline, and I will swim along-side and keep it from upsetting." 
               "It is a fearful risk, but there seems to be no alternative," she rejoined. 
               "Yes, it must be so!" 
               While this conversation was taking place, Methoto, without heeding it, and probably without understanding even the drift of it, kept himself busy in hauling out the canoe, carefully examining it, and putting it into the water, where, by the time his guests had arrived at their decision, he was holding it with one hand and waiting for them to enter. Henry now explained to him his design of swimming and thus keeping it upright. Methoto shook his head, in a way to show that he very much disapproved of the plan. 
               "Squaw still sit-no turn!" he said. 
               "I dare not risk it!" replied Isaline. 
               Methoto stared at her for a few moments, with a mingled look of pity and admiration-pity for her fears-admiration of her beauty. Isaline grew quite uneasy, and turned her eyes away, as if to observe some distant object. There was something about the look of that strange being, when his whole attention was concentrated on her, that made her fear him even more than the river. 
               "Squaw heap 'fraid?" he asked. 
               "Yes," nodded Isaline, without glancing at him again, and rapidly turning her eyes from one object to another, as if fearful there might be other dangers gathering around her. 
               "Much handsome!" pursued Methoto, who, in common with most of the Indians of the Ohio tribes, or Six Nations, had picked up quite a number of English words from the British agents and traders of the Canadas, with whom they were on friendly terms. "Best come stay Methoto wigwam!" 
               "Come, come, we are wasting precious time here!" now interposed Henry, rather sternly. 
               Methoto turned and gave him a look that was hard to interpret, because it seemed to mean so much and yet expressed so little-a stern, hard, cold stare, that might either indicate a want of comprehension, or secret, sullen anger at his interference. 
               "If you will put us across the river at once, we will give you many thanks," pursued Henry, returning his look with an unquailing eye. 
               "You swim?" asked Methoto. 
               It was a natural question, because perfectly in accordance with his own proposition; but Henry, who was gazing straight into his eyes, and endeavoring to understand the soul that was looking out through those dull windows, saw, or fancied he saw, a slight, momentary gleam of satisfaction or triumph; and reflecting that for himself to be in the water swimming, with Isaline in the boat with Methoto, was to put a new temptation to crime before that strange, dark being, that he might not care to resist, he answered, in a decided tone: 
                
               "No, I have changed my mind-I shall not swim!" 
               "You 'fraid some?" said the other, with an expression of disappointment slightly blended with contempt. 
               "For the present, Isaline, I regret to say we must take our chances on this side of the river," said Henry, turning to his fair companion. 
               She looked at him and caught his meaning at a glance. 
               "Yes, Henry, the river is too dangerous!" she rejoined, with an expression that showed she comprehended everything. 
               "What do?" inquired Methoto, looking curiously from one to the other. 
               "We must keep on this side of the river to the ford-too much danger on the water." 
               "No go canoe?" 
               Henry shook his head. 
               With a look of sullen disappointment, Methoto jerked the boat ashore, picked it up as if it had been a light stick of wood, and, taking two or three steps up the hill, hurled it under his hut, among the bushes, where it rested as at first. 
               "He is angry with us now, and I am so afraid of him!" said Isaline, with a shudder. 
               "Would to God I had my rifle and ammunition with me!" returned Henry, with a look of deep anxiety. "But I must get possession of his-our safety, I fear, depends on it! Be calm, dear Isaline, I pray you, and seem as careless and indifferent as possible! We must both play a part here-Heaven help us!" 
               Methoto did not return to his guests, but immediately plunged into the bushes and disappeared on the other side of his rude dwelling. 
               "Oh, Heaven! perhaps he has gone to get his rifle to shoot you, Henry!" cried Isaline, clasping her hands. 
               Henry remembered what he had seen in the night, and had his own suspicions and fears, but he merely said: 
               "We must go up and meet him with smiles-it may be our only hope!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               CONTINUED FLIGHT. 
               BOTH Henry and Isaline immediately started up the hill to meet the white Indian, according to the suggestion of the former; but the latter trembled in every limb, and felt her brain reel. 
               "Courage, dear one!" whispered Henry. "You must master your fears and put on a smile, for everything may depend on you!" 
               Thus roused to attempt what then seemed to her an impossible task, Isaline threw the whole strength of her soul into the despairing effort to put her nerves under the control of her will, and met with a success that astonished herself. She prayed God for aid, and it came in a feeling of calm reliance and strength of purpose that to her seemed very wonderful and mysterious. 
               We know not our own strength till we try ourselves against some great calamity or adversity and conquer. 
               When our friends reached the door of the hut, they met Methoto in the act of coming out. He had his rifle in his hand, there was a frown on his brow, and his eyes had a sullen gleam. The whole expression was cold and wicked. 
                
               Isaline greeted him with a smile. He looked surprised and somewhat embarrassed. 
               "I think we shall have to stay with you a little longer, Methoto," she said, in her most fascinating manner, "or else get you to go with us." 
               There came a slight glow upon his weather-beaten features, as if the blood had taken a sudden start upward. He seemed a little confused, and glanced at Henry. 
               "The river runs too fast," said the latter. 
               "Heap 'fraid canoe-no swim!" he rejoined. 
               Henry nodded, and Isaline smiled. 
               "Come stay Methoto wigwam?" he said to Isaline. 
               "For a while, perhaps." 
               "I am afraid we shall eat everything up!" said Henry, accompanying his words with intelligible signs. 
               "More corn-more deer!" replied Methoto. "Gun good-shoot heap!" 
               "Can you shoot a bird?" asked Isaline, with appropriate gestures. 
               "Oogh! me show!" answered the unsuspecting white savage, evidently proud of his skill, and at once beginning to look about him for a living mark. 
               He stepped outside of the bushes that concealed his dwelling, and our friends kept close to him. Presently he espied a thrush, seated on the lower limb of a tree, about thirty yards distant; and silently directing Isaline's attention to it, he raised his piece, took a quick aim, and fired. The bird fell dead. He turned proudly to Isaline. 
               "Good!" she said, clapping her hands; "you are a good marksman, and have a good rifle!" 
               "Oogh! Methoto fill wigwam full bear, deer, for white squaw-big heap!" 
               Isaline smiled encouragingly, and Methoto hurried off to get his prize. 
               "Oh, Heaven! how will this end?" said Isaline to Henry, in a low, anxious tone, the moment they were again by themselves. 
               "You must get leave for me to try my skill," returned Henry, "and by that means I may get possession of the rifle. It would be a cruel meanness, I admit, to deprive this poor fellow of his main weapon, if there were any other way to protect ourselves; but I see none. He was evidently coming to seek us, with a murderous design, and I fear it is only our stratagem that has so far saved us both! With his rifle and ammunition in my possession, he will be in my power, and no longer to be feared; and if Heaven will favor our return to our friends, I secretly promise to restore his property, if I even have to come back with it myself! You have done bravely, dear Isaline-bravely! bravely! and if you can only continue to play your part, all may yet be well. There, be ready now, for here he comes!" 
               Methoto returned, with a look of triumph, and handed the dead bird to Isaline, who received it with a smile, and appeared to be much delighted, though she secretly shuddered. 
               "I would like to see my friend shoot!" she smiled, pointing to Henry and tapping Methoto's rifle. 
               "Perhaps I could not do as well!" said Henry, with a careless yawn, reaching out his hand for the piece. 
               There was a sudden gleam of suspicion from the cold gray eye of the white savage, which Henry did not appear to observe. At first he drew his weapon a little back, as if he did not intend to part with it; but seeing Isaline look a little hurt and pained-an expression which, with a great effort, she threw into her lovely face, for her very soul was secretly trembling within her-he quietly handed his piece to the other, watching him closely as he did so. Henry took it indifferently, examined it with some care, sighted along the barrel, and asked if it was loaded. 
               "No powder-no ball!" answered Methoto; "me load um!" 
               "No," returned Henry, "let me load and fire it myself!" 
               He reached out his hand for the powder-horn and bullet-pouch, which the other finally handed to him, though with seeming reluctance. 
               Henry loaded the weapon with great deliberation, and carefully primed it. A covert glance at Isaline showed her very pale and slightly trembling. The success of her ruse had almost unnerved her, and a fearful reaction was beginning to take place. Everything thing that he had sought was now in his possession, and Henry nerved himself for the crisis. 
               "Step this way, Isaline, and show me the bird you wish me to shoot!" he said, carelessly turning aside, as if to seek his feathered mark. 
               Isaline understood him, and started forward with tremulous haste, her very heart beating wildly. 
               She had passed him a few steps, and was apparently looking eagerly about her for the object of her quest, and Methoto had just started to follow, when Henry wheeled suddenly around, and, pointing the rifle at the breast of the white Indian, thundered forth: 
               "Back, on your life, or you are a dead man!" 
               The expression of Methoto's features at that moment would have been a study for a painter. The blood instantly forsook his swarthy face, so as to leave it quite pale; while astonishment, fear and rage became about equally blended in his ugly countenance. For a moment he seemed petrified; and then his teeth began to gnash, his eyes gleamed like a demon's, and his hands convulsively clutched the knife and tomahawk still in his belt. Henry cocked the rifle and stood firm, with an unmistakable resolution depicted in his deep blue eye. 
               "One step forward and I fire!" he said, raising the rifle to an aim. 
               The danger was too terrible to face; death was in that hollow tube so unshakingly held before him; the eye of the white Indian began to quail, his face began to take on a ghastly expression, his stout form began to shrink, tremble and cower, his brute courage could no longer sustain him, and, with the awful howl of a frightened wild beast, he suddenly turned and bounded away, now dodging to the right and now to the left, as if to avoid the aim of his foe, till the thick bushes around his own dwelling completely hid him from the view. 
               Instantly Henry uncocked his rifle and hurried to the side of Isaline, whom he found as white as a sheet and trembling like an aspen. 
               "Courage, dear one-courage!" he said, throwing his protecting arm around her slender form; "the worst is over, we are so far saved, and now let us fly while we can!" 
               She seized and clung to him almost convulsively, and the two set forward in breathless haste, plunging along through bushes, stumbling over sticks and stones, Henry every moment or two looking back and sweeping the whole dreary scene with his keen, experienced eye. 
               They did not ascend the hill again, but kept down along the bank of the river, following the windings of the stream, with no word from the ashy lips of Isaline, and only now and then an expression of hope and encouragement from Henry. 
               They ran through the open wood, forced their way through thickets, and either leaped over or dashed recklessly into the little fordable brooks and creeks that crossed their path, regardless of everything thing but the one purpose of escape from the possible dangers behind them. 
               The sun came over the hill and streamed brightly down into the romantic valley of the Licking, lighting up scenes of picturesque beauty, that, under pleasant circumstances, would have filled their genial souls with poetical delight, but on which they now bestowed only hurried glances of fear. 
               At last, after two hours of such anxious flight, they came upon a sylvan retreat more enchantingly beautiful than any they had yet beheld. It was a spot where the hill, or right bank of the river, had taken the form of a rocky bluff, and, falling back from the stream, had swept around in a semi-circle, inclosing a gentle slope, which was covered with green grass and bright flowers, and shaded by grand old trees, which were standing wide apart, interlocking their branches overhead, and were here and there draped with a long, silvery moss, and with many a vine twining round them and hanging downward heavy with clusters of rich, purple fruit. At the bottom of the first green and flowery slope was a broad, gravelly level, and then the ground rose again, with a gentle swell, and terminated in a low bluff, overlooking the main channel of the river, which had quietly reached out an arm between the two and made the second rise an island. This island was not large, and was thickly covered with bushes and trees-one of the latter, almost white from age, stretching upward its hoary trunk and leafless, jagged branches or arms, like some ancient patriarch bestowing his blessings upon the rising generations gathered around him. Between the main land and the island, the water, to the depth of only a few inches, flowed along with a pleasing murmur; but through the main channel, which was narrow and rocky, with a high bluff on its southern shore, it rushed swiftly and angrily, with a hoarse, bubbling roar. From the centre of this retreat, the view was not an extensive one, for the river could not be seen above the point where the bluff bent outward and formed a high wall of rocks; but it was novel, picturesque, and beautiful beyond description. 
               It was not to be supposed that one so keenly alive to the poetry of nature as our young artist, could pass through so enchanting a scene as this and not feel his very soul stirred within him. From the moment he entered the retreat, his quick, keen eye noted everything; but he made no remark till he reached about the centre of the place, when, as if he could no longer control his feelings, he stopped and exclaimed: 
               "A perfect Paradise! Was there ever anything more beautiful?" 
               He looked at his companion for an enthusiastic response, and saw that her features were deadly pale, and that her lovely countenance had a weary, troubled, haggard expression. She rallied a little at his words, and, with a hurried glance around her, replied, but quite faintly: 
                
               "Yes, it is very beautiful! very charming!" 
               "Dear Isaline, you are not well!" said Henry, quickly, with a look of anxious solicitude. 
               "I feel somewhat fatigued," she replied; "as if, under the excitement, I had over-exerted myself." 
               "Dolt that I am," said Henry, "not to have considered that a pace which would be ease for me might be death to you!" 
               "Oh, blame not yourself, my dear friend!" returned Isaline; "we have been flying to save our lives, and have only done what necessity required." 
               "I do blame myself, notwithstanding, that I did not sooner perceive the injury this rapid flight was doing you!" rejoined the other, in a tone of deep self-reproach, as he gazed into her sweet face with a look of anxious kindness. 
               Her dark eyes beamed full upon him, with an expression that made his heart take a great leap-an expression of earnest sweetness, gentleness, sympathy, hope, faith, reliance-love!
                
               Henry next spoke with agitation-for that one, simple, truthful, unstudied look, excited emotions that made his frame quiver-his voice tremble. 
               "You must have rest now, dear Isaline-your condition absolutely requires it!" 
               "But have we time, Henry? is not the danger still too pressing?" 
               "There will be more danger for you to continue without rest!" 
               "I am so fearful of being pursued!" said Isaline, glancing timidly around her; "if not by the savages of yesterday, at least by Methoto, who I am certain will not hesitate to kill you now if he can find an opportunity!" 
               "But I have his rifle, dear Isaline, and he fears for his own life." 
               "Yes, but may he not get another somewhere, and secretly pursue and murder you?" 
               "Borrow it of his nearest neighbor perhaps," returned Henry, with a reassuring smile; "but while he is gone to that neighbor for it, I think you may safely venture to rest an hour, more especially as the journey there and back would cost him at least a day." 
               "But the Indians we escaped from yesterday may be even now pursuing our trail! and if they should come upon Methoto now in his anger, he would most likely join with them and follow us for revenge!" 
               "There may possibly be something to be feared in that respect," said Henry; "but, should we now continue our flight, and you faint by the way, what would be gained to us? Ha! a happy thought strikes me, dear Isaline! We can break our trail here, and gain all the rest we need, with additional security, even should we be followed as you fear. Look at that beautiful island, and the shallow water flowing between it and us! Now we will go up through this grove to those rocks you see above, which will take no impression of our feet-and which, to any one following, will convey the idea that we have hurried on up the stream-and then we will turn back into the water, and return to the lower end of the island, and there secrete ourselves among the bushes, till such time as we may see proper to resume our journey." 
               "Perhaps this may be done with safety!" said Isaline. 
               "It will add to our safety, believe me!" rejoined Henry; "more especially if we can manage to set off in another direction without leaving an easily discernible trail." 
               "Well, do then as you think best!" assented Isaline. 
               It was the work of only a few minutes to carry out the plan suggested; and on reaching the lower point of the little island, along the bed of the shallow branch or overflow, it was found that their steps could be continued in the edge of the water of the main channel for nearly half the distance back again, so that they really first set foot upon the island from its western, or rather southern, side, and immediately found themselves in a thick covert of bushes. Carefully pushing their way through these towards the centre of their new retreat, they soon came to a large, flat rock, directly under the bare, jagged arms of the hoary old tree we have mentioned. 
               "Oh, what a delightful spot!" exclaimed Henry, with enthusiasm, as, with his sweet companion, he mounted the rock, upon which the bright morning sun was shining warmly and gratefully, and gazed around upon the flowery grove, the bold bluffs, and the rushing, roaring river. "Here, dear lady, we can rest in peace for the present, even though our enemies be in hot pursuit, which I do not believe, for certainly they would never seek to follow us directly into the arms of our companions." 
               "Ah! our companions-would to Heaven we were with them again!" sighed Isaline. 
               "Courage, dear one-courage-and we may be with them sooner than you believe!" 
               "If they in turn have met with no disaster and have not passed the ford!" said Isaline. 
               "And even if they have, there will be a way to follow them," said Henry, cheerily. "The river has only been temporarily raised by the storm of yesterday, and I can see that the waters are now rapidly subsiding to their regular depth. By the time we reach the ford, we shall undoubtedly find the stream in a condition to cross." 
               "And how far do you suppose we are from the ford now, Henry?" 
               "I do not know-but not far-not more than three or four miles at most, judging from what that white savage told us." 
               "Oh, if kind Heaven will only permit us to rejoin our companions!" said Isaline, with tremulous anxiety. 
               After soothing and reassuring her, with many kind words tenderly spoken, Henry, whose passion for drawing the grand, sublime, or beautiful in nature ture, would not let him rest idly in so enchanting a place, at length said: 
               "Will you pardon me, dear Isaline, if, while you are resting, I attempt to sketch the beauties of this most charming of nature's retreats?" 
               "Oh, yes, by all means," returned the other, "so that we do not make too long a delay here!" 
               The next minute the young artist was engaged in his favorite pastime, and soon became so deeply absorbed that all else was forgotten-danger, Isaline, everything. Minutes flew by unheeded, an hour or two passed away, and his mind was still as intent as ever upon the work before him-he standing on the rock, and Isaline seated at his feet. 
               Suddenly he was startled by a hand clutching him convulsively. 
               "I hear voices!" said Isaline, in a low, frightened tone. 
               Henry looked up and around. 
               "And I see Indians!" he rejoined, leaping down from the rock and fairly dragging Isaline into the bushes. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE LAST FLIGHT AND CAPTURE. 
               "HIST!" whispered Henry, to his trembling companion, as he reached out and drew his rifle from the old tree against which it was leaning; "not a sound above your breath! Yet do not be too much alarmed, for I am almost certain I was not discovered; and, if so, we are as safe here as if a mile away. Remain perfectly quiet here, dear Isaline, and let me creep forward and reconnoitre." 
               "Oh, Henry, you will not leave me! I must go with you!" 
               "Follow me, then, but so cautiously as not to snap the smallest twig, for these savages have very sharp ears, and I tremble to think what would be your doom should anything occur to betray our presence here." 
               We have said the island was thickly covered with trees and bushes; but the whole space was small; and from the spot where Henry first discovered the Indians, to the point where he could look out through a close covert upon the open grove of the main land, was only a few yards-though so great was his caution that he was comparatively a long time in reaching it. 
                
               When at length he did get there, he saw that which not only made him shudder, but awakened the most strange and conflicting emotions-for there, on the very spot where he had stopped with his fair companion to gaze around upon the beauties of the place, stood six hideously painted savages and three white men-one of the latter being no other than his long lost foe, Charles Hampton, the second Methoto, and the third the villain who had attempted to decoy himself and companions ashore on the Ohio. 
               A thousand thoughts rushed whirling through his brain in a moment. Hampton then was not dead, but had managed to join the Indians, and perhaps had incited them to follow the train in the hope of finding some opportunity of attacking it at advantage, and of carrying out his own wicked purpose of obtaining revenge and getting possession of Isaline. It was natural to conjecture that they had observed where two horses had turned off from the main body the day before, and that a part of them at least had followed that trail, and it might be that the storm had saved himself and companion from immediate capture. It was unnecessary to imagine what movements had been made subsequently, since it was clear enough that this party had got upon their trail after the loss of the horses, and that nothing but the darkness had again saved them from the hands of their enemies. At daylight of the present morning it was probable these savages had again discovered their trail and rapidly pursued it to Methoto's cabin, where the white Indian, conversing with them in their own language, had undoubtedly given them all the information in his possession, and had then willingly joined them in the pursuit. 
               So much for the past, but what of the future? It was terrible to contemplate! Henry saw that he and Isaline were already cut off from their companions, whom they had so fondly hoped to join soon, and what chance of escape had they now? The thought of their present condition made him shudder; and yet he felt grateful to that kind Providence which had so wonderfully preserved them thus far, and even here had caused them to turn aside and perhaps be saved from the capture that would have ensued had they continued their flight. 
               All these thoughts went through the brain of Henry almost at a flash as his eyes rested upon the terrible group before him. For some cause the whole party had halted upon the very spot where he and Isaline had stopped scarcely two hours before, but evidently not, like him, to admire the surrounding beauties. The Indians were speaking together in the thick, guttural tones of their native tongue, and gesticulating rapidly, almost fiercely; and the white men were standing a little apart and looking at them-two of them evidently listening understandingly, and Hampton noting the debate or dispute with the interest of one concerned in the issue. Of what they said, Henry of course knew nothing; but from their gestures, he judged that the majority were for continuing the pursuit, and one or two were for turning back. If so, the counsels of the former evidently prevailed-for suddenly the whole group of Indians sprung forward along the trail, and the white men as quickly followed. 
               Henry now turned back to Isaline, who had stopped a couple of paces behind him; and his face was so white, and his look so full of distress and dismay, that she involuntarily clasped her hands and gasped: 
               "What is it?" 
               "Did you see, dear Isaline?" 
               "No, nothing-I dared not creep up near enough-but I heard strange voices." 
               "Charles Hampton, Methoto, and the white decoy, are united with six Indians in pursuit of us!" 
               "Merciful God!" 
               "They have gone forward on our trail, but they will soon find where it ceases, and then I fear they will suspect the truth and begin a search of this island." 
               "Oh, Father in Heaven!" gasped Isaline, pressing her hands upon her heart, with a look of terrible despair. 
               For a few moments Henry seemed lost in distracting thought. 
               "It must be done!" he at length said, in a startling whisper; "there is no other hope!" 
               Isaline looked the question her lips did not pronounce. 
                
               "Should the Indians come back here to make a search, as I believe they will, there is no place on this island where we could long escape their keen eyes!" pursued Henry; "and if we were to fly now, and get off without being discovered, they would soon be upon our fresh trail and overtake us!" 
               "Then we are lost!" gasped Isaline. 
               "One only hope remains; but it is a desperate risk, and will require all your courage-all your nerve!" 
               "Speak! what is it?" 
               "You must place your life in my hands, and with me leap into the rushing waters, and let them bear us downward wherever God wills! Are you prepared for the terrible venture?" 
               "Yes, my dear friend!" hurriedly answered Isaline; "I will do whatever you advise! I will commend my soul to God, and trust all to Him and you!" 
               "If you will only remain passively in the water, and not clutch me convulsively and encumber my limbs, I think I can guide you safely to the shore: if not, dear Isaline, at least I will perish with you." 
               "Oh, no, no, Henry, my dear friend!" returned Isaline, with the self-sacrifice of a noble soul; "do not give up your own life; but if you find you cannot save both, at least save yourself!" 
               "Isaline," rejoined Henry, fairly trembling with the excess of various contending emotions, "I receive your counsel in the spirit it is meant, and therefore forgive you; but oh! you do not know me, do not comprehend my feelings, or such words would never have been spoken! To give you up now, is more than to give up life itself; to see you perish now, would be to see the beauties, the joys, the glories of the world swept away forever!-to see the brightness of existence become a rayless gloom! But, come! come! we are wasting precious time! wasting moments on which our very salvation may depend! Ah, Heaven have mercy! hark to that yell! Our foes have discovered that our trail no longer leads that way, and they will soon be back here in search of us! Quick, quick, dear Isaline! gather all your nerve for the great trial, and follow me, for life or for death!" 
               He hurriedly crept back through the bushes, (fearing to stand upright lest he should be discovered,) to the edge of the rushing, roaring stream, and Isaline closely followed him. Then came the thought of Methoto's rifle-how was he to dispose of that! To attempt carrying it in his hand, would be to endanger the life of his sweet companion; to leave it, or sink it in the stream, would almost be to give up the hope of procuring food to live on in the event of escape, to say nothing of losing the means of defence. A moment of rapid thought, and he determined on lashing it to his back. He regretted it was loaded, for the charge in it would become wet and difficult to remove, and to fire it off now would be almost certain to bring the Indians directly upon the spot. There was no time for delay-whatever he would do he must do quickly-and having decided upon his plan, he forthwith carried it into execution. Fortunately he had a small cord in the pocket of his hunting frock; and with this and his belt, his own nimble hands, and the trembling fingers of Isaline working under his direction, he soon had his rifle secured in the manner he intended. 
               All was now prepared for the perilous undertaking before him-the committing of himself and sweet charge to the mercy of God, in the dark, turbid waters of the river rushing along at their feet; and taking a hand of the pallid, shuddering girl in his, he solemnly asked: 
               "Are you ready, dear one, for the fearful trial, for life or for death?" 
               "As ready now, dear friend, as I ever may be!" came from her ashy lips. "To your care, dear Henry, under God, I commit myself, for time or for eternity!" 
               "And may the good God continue His mercies to us!" he prayed. "Leap!" 
               They both sprung forward together; and down they went, with a sullen plunge, into the rapid stream, the dark waters for a moment closing over them with a triumphant gurgle. 
               Henry was a good swimmer, and his presence of mind did not desert him; but Isaline gasped, and struggled, and clutched wildly hold of him, in a manner that required all his strength and skill to save them both from a watery grave. He was equal to the emergency, however, and soon had her in a position where she could do him no harm; and then, as they went floating down on the bosom of the current, he gave his whole attention to keeping her head above water, and avoiding a collision with the rocks, trees, and obstructions along the shore. Once he made a desperate effort to swim over to the opposite bank; but finding the attempt too perilous, he quickly abandoned it, and confined himself only to what was prudent and safe. With one hand firmly holding Isaline, he found he could use his other limbs to advantage in swimming forward somewhat faster than the current carried them; and seeing a large drift-log a few yards ahead of him, he made strenuous exertions to reach it, and finally succeeded. From that moment he felt that the danger of the water was past; and when the first bend of the river was turned, so that the savages above could not possibly see them, he began to breathe freer, and once more to have hope. He soon managed to get Isaline fairly upon the log and himself by her side, and then he had only to preserve a proper balance and let the current carry them forward. 
               In this way they floated on downward for something like a mile, when they came to a wild, romantic spot, where the river narrowed and the banks were steep and high, with trees and bushes growing down to the water and reaching far out over it. 
                
               "Perhaps, dear Isaline," he said, "we shall find no better place for landing than this. Here is a noble thicket, in which to conceal ourselves and rest; and by climbing into the thick branches of some of these trees, I do not think that the sharp eyes of our enemies would be able to discover us, even should they come searching down the bank of the river." 
               "Do as you think best, my dear friend," she replied, in a low, sweet tone, expressive of the most unbounded confidence in him, her guide and protector. "I am only too thankful to you, under God, for our present escape, and shall trust everything to your discretion and judgment." 
               "God bless you, dear lady!" he rejoined, with passionate warmth; "and if I may only be permitted to save you from these awful perils of the wilderness, and restore you to the arms of your honored father, I shall then see the happiest moments of my eventful existence!" 
               "Oh, my dear, dear father!" exclaimed Isaline, bursting into tears; "shall I ever behold him again?" 
               "I have great hope now," replied Henry; "for if we can only succeed in eluding these savages a while longer, they will certainly give up the search. Doubtless they would have done so long ere this, but for the promptings of that fiend incarnate, who is seeking you for a wicked purpose." 
               "You allude to Charles Hampton?" said Isaline, with a shudder. 
               "Yes! I think him, in this case, the master spirit of evil! How he chanced to fall in with that other treacherous villain, I cannot imagine, unless he purposely sought refuge among the Indians after his wild flight that night in the forest; but unquestionably the two have found themselves congenial souls in deeds of darkness." 
               "But is it not strange the Indians have not made him a close prisoner?" 
               "Not if he voluntarily fled to them for protection, claiming to be an Englishman and hating their foes-which, through the decoy acting as interpreter, he could readily make them understand. The red man has his policy as well as the white, and seldom fails to encourage, by kind treatment and even promotion, desertions to himself from his enemies-for these, to a certain extent, weaken the latter, and materially aid him in getting his revenge." 
               "And after all, it seems his shrieking pursuer-the dread Demon or Phantom-did not destroy him, as the scouts were fain to believe!" 
               "No, would to Heaven it had! or that I had kept my first purpose and sent a ball through him!" 
               "Better for your future peace of mind, Henry, that you did not!" rejoined Isaline. "I hold that we have no right to take human life except in self-defence; and though he treacherously fired at you, yet after the ball had missed its mark you were no longer in deadly peril from him." 
               "Not then, perhaps, but I may be now, or hereafter; and what is more, dear Isaline, you may be also!" said Henry, in a tone that showed he was far from being satisfied with matters as they were. 
               While thus conversing, the young artist had not been unmindful of his design of landing in that wild retreat; and having now floated under a tree that he fancied would best serve his purpose, he reached up, took hold of a limb, and drew the log in to the shore. 
               "Up in these branches, dear Isaline," he said, "I think we can rest in safety; and, if possible, I wish you to climb into them without touching a foot on land, that there may be no mark left below to betray us in case the Indians should come down through here searching for us." 
               With some assistance from him, Isaline succeeded in gaining the body of the tree, and the next minute Henry was himself by her side. It did seem to them then, as they looked upon the matted leaves below them, with scarcely a spot where their sight could penetrate through the foliage and rank vegetation to the earth beneath, that they had at last reached a place of absolute safety for whatever time they might choose to remain there. Of course their clothes were wet through and clinging to them in a manner not the most pleasant; but fortunately the air was warm and would not chill them, and they were too grateful for their deliverance, and had too much matter for serious consideration, to bestow even a thought upon such trifles. 
               Henry now examined his powder-horn, and found to his satisfaction that the contents were perfectly dry. He next unfastened his rifle and examined that. It had been submerged so long that the powder in the pan, and probably that in the barrel also, was soaked through, and all about it was still dripping wet. 
               "I shall have trouble in getting out this charge," he said. 
               He proceeded to wipe the lock, and clean out the wet powder from the pan and fill it with dry. 
               "Perhaps by flashing this off, a few times," he again remarked, as if rather thinking aloud than addressing his companion, "the powder inside will become dry enough to take fire and drive out the ball." 
               "Will it be prudent to try the experiment now?" anxiously inquired Isaline. "If it should go off, will it not make a report loud enough to be heard by our enemies in case they are in the vicinity?" 
               "It certainly would not be prudent to fire off the piece now," replied Henry; "but there can be no harm in flashing the powder in the pan a few times, which will tend to dry the other and be so much time saved." 
               He snapped the piece as he spoke, and there followed a bright flash and a light smoke. He immediately repeated the experiment, with the same result. He tried it the third time, and, to his great surprise and even consternation, the charge within, after hanging fire a short time, went off with a loud report. 
               "God have mercy on us!" gasped Isaline. 
               "Fool! dolt! blockhead!" were the terms of angry reproach that Henry applied to himself: "how long must I live in the wilderness, surrounded by the most deadly perils, to learn ordinary prudence! The powder could not have been as wet as I supposed. I do not think the report was heard by our enemies," he added, after listening for a few minutes and glancing sharply around him; "but no thanks to me, who deserve punishment for my folly! If kind Heaven favors our escape this time, it will be a lesson to me for the future!" 
               He braced himself among the limbs, and immediately began to wipe out and reload his weapon; but Isaline remained motionless and silent, with one hand pressed upon her heart, and her sweet features pale and anxious. 
               For the next few minutes not another word was spoken even in a whisper. Henry finished reloading his rifle, and then kept his eyes anxiously moving from point to point among the thick leaves of the covert. It was little he could see, where branches, vines and bushes were so woven in together that the noon-day sun rarely penetrated to the teeming earth. 
               At length, in looking around, he casually glanced at the face of Isaline, and fairly started at beholding the expression of horror which the features displayed played. The eyes, bent downward, were strained open and glaring, the lips were apart, the nostrils compressed, and every lineament was rigidly fixed and ghastly. She seemed to be gazing at some frightful object, and to be fairly petrified with fear; and instantly looking for the cause of her terror, Henry felt his own blood run cold and his hair rise as he caught a glimpse of a half-naked savage stealing along through the thick bushes on the very edge of the stream, with a motion so guarded as not to make a noise equal to the rustling of a leaf. 
               The Indian came up directly under the tree in which our friends were concealed, and then stopped, apparently attracted by the appearance of the log on which the fugitives had come ashore. Then his sharp, black eyes were thrown around in quick, searching glances, and were suddenly lifted to the limb which Henry had first taken hold of to pull the log in, and from which a twig or two and some leaves had been broken and dropped on the bushes below and into the edge of the water. The next moment his basilisk eyes were searching the body of the tree; and Henry mentally groaned at the thought that now all hope was over, and possibly because of his own imprudence-for had his rifle not been discharged, the keen eyes of this savage might not have been so specially directed to his present place of concealment, and his foes might have gone on and missed him. 
               So quick and searching were the glances of the Indian below, that not more than twenty or thirty seconds elapsed, from the moment when he stopped under the tree, before he gave the triumphant yell, or halloo, of discovery. 
               Loud and shrill the startling sound rung out upon the still air, and went echoing through the wood, only to be instantly taken up and repeated several times from two or three different quarters; and, mingling with these horrible screeches, came also the distinctive shouts of the white renegades. 
               Henry felt that now indeed his last faint hope had expired, and instantly turned his despairing gaze upon his sweet and silent companion. It was just in time, for poor Isaline had already fainted and was in the act of falling, and it required a quick and vigorous exertion on his part to keep her senseless form from dropping down to the feet of the exultant savage below. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE RENEGADE AND HIS FRIENDS. 
               IN the course of two or three minutes the whole number of the savages and their white companions had gathered around the foot of the tree in whose branches Henry yet remained supporting the still unconscious Isaline. 
               "Poor girl!" he sighed, thinking solely of her and not of himself; "would to Heaven I could deliver you by the sacrifice of my own poor life! Alas! alas! alas!" 
               "So, then, my chivalrous gentleman, we have got you at last, have we?" said the voice of Hampton, in a tone of undisguised triumph. "I took a solemn oath, that sooner or later I would have possession of you both, and I have not sworn in vain. A pretty business you have made of it, sneaking round through the woods with a lady who had a good reputation before you knew her; but fortunately, as I view it, unfortunately, as you may, you have had your sport out, have run the length of your tether, and will now have to take the consequences! Come, down with you, and show yourself, and not keep gentlemen waiting!" 
               "Yes," joined in the decoy, with a malignant laugh, "I once had the pleasure of waiting your slow motions on the Ohio, but don't much like the idea of doing so here." 
               "Him steal Methoto gun!" said the white savage, gnashing his teeth with rage. 
               The Indians gave a few short yells of triumph. 
               "Come, down with you!" repeated Hampton. 
               Thus far Henry had not spoken a word, but, with tender solicitude, had remained in the tree, supporting the inanimate form of his unconscious companion, and wishing from the very depths of his heart she might never unclose her eyes to the dreadful misery that had come upon her. What his feelings were in those awful moments-the intensity of his anguish-may never be revealed; but there was little of self in his consideration: his whole soul was centered upon poor Isaline-the innocent lamb among a pack of ravenous wolves. 
               "Charles Hampton," he said at length, in a calm, firm, dispassionate tone, "I ask nothing for myself, but everything for one for whom you have professed regard. Do with me what you will; but, in the name of that God before whose awful Bar you must sooner or later appear, I charge you to do no wrong to this sweet lady, who has never wronged you by so much as a word! You at least were born in a Christian land, have mingled with the intelligent and refined, and have laid claim to the title of a gentleman; and though you have, for a purpose of your own, stooped from your high estate to consort with the barbarians of the wilderness, I cannot think you so lost to all feelings of honor and humanity as to have yet become a devil incarnate, and nothing less would harm this innocent young lady, who now rests in my arms with the unconsciousness of one no longer having existence." 
               "You need not waste your valuable time in delivering a very stupid homily!" sneered Hampton. "I think I still have wit enough left to manage my own affairs, and whenever I shall really stand in need of your advice I shall be sure to let you know. As to the young lady and myself, we will settle our own affairs in our own way, and hereafter I shall take care that you do not interfere with my plans. If I have stooped from my high estate, as you are pleased to observe, to consort with the savage friends and allies of my country, I beg you will consider who drove me to the desperate act by the most villainous treatment that an honorable gentleman ever received. But come! the Indians here are getting impatient at your delay in joining them; and if you remain up there much longer, you will probably be invited down by a tomahawk or rifle-bullet. How is it, Miss Isaline, that I have no pleasant word from you? Do you disdain a kindly greeting to an old friend?" 
               "Have I not told you that she is unconscious?" said Henry. 
               "Oh, I did not comprehend you!" returned Hampton. "She has fainted then?" 
                
               "Yes." 
               "Then why keep her up there, instead of handing her down to her friends and having something done for her?" 
               "Would to Heaven she might never be restored to consciousness again!" said Henry. 
               "Speak to your Indians, Blodget," said Hampton, addressing the decoy, "and explain how matters stand." 
               The other said a few words to the savages in their native tongue; and they, jerking out their guttural replies, immediately gathered around in a close group, directly under Henry and Isaline. Hampton and the man called Blodget also pressed up into the ring, and the former said: 
               "Now let her down to us, and we will take care that she does not fall." 
               Painful as it was for Henry thus to deliver into the possession of his rival, the fair, sweet being he loved above all others, there was no alternative; and with many anxious words of caution, he lowered her unconscious form as gently as he could, and, with feelings no language may portray, beheld her first seized by the rude hands of savages and then clasped in the arms of his deadly foe. It must be confessed that Hampton handled her with tender care; and, gently placing her upon the bank of the river, soon began to sprinkle water in her face, in order to revive her. 
               Meantime Henry leaped down among the savages, and was immediately laid hold of, with whoops of triumph. As soon as Methoto could reach him, he seized and jerked his rifle from his hands, and, springing back some three or four paces, attempted to shoot him. In fact he would have done so, but for Blodget, who knocked the piece up just as he had it levelled and was in the act of pulling the trigger. It went off, and the ball passed just over the head of his intended victim. 
               "Don't be a fool!" exclaimed the decoy, turning fiercely upon the white savage. "Do you want to take his life here now, and spoil all our after sport?" 
               Then bethinking him that Methoto would better understand the Indian tongue, he addressed him in the language of the Shawanoese. 
               "Oogh!" grunted Methoto, seeming to be well pleased with the idea; and then he said a few words to his brother savages, at which they all laughed. 
               While Hampton kept himself busy in trying to restore Isaline-and there appeared to have been some arrangement by which she was to be left solely in his charge-the Indians began to strip and plunder Henry, one taking his knife and belt, another his hunting-frock, a third his hat, and so on, till in the course of five minutes he had nothing left to him but his breeches and a part of a torn shirt. Methoto of course claimed his own powder-horn and bullet-pouch; and though he would gladly have had a share of the rest of the things, his dusky brothers appeared to think he had got enough, and divided all the plunder among themselves, each putting on some part of the young man's dress and strutting around, amid general laughter at each other. 
               The savages were naked except the breech-cloth, leggings and moccasins, though each carried a blanket thrown carelessly over his shoulders. They were all armed with rifle, tomahawk and scalping-knife, and were painted for the war-path-or rather were hideously daubed with immense blotches of vermilion, and streaked with white, black, and blue, put on in a way to make them look most ugly and frightful. Each had his scalp-lock ornamented with beads and feathers and standing up stiff above his otherwise bald head, ready for the grasp of whatever foeman could get near enough to seize it-a sort of perpetual challenge and silent braggardism. 
               Blodget, though evidently long among the Indians as an associate, agent and trader, was not in any way disfigured, probably because it might have injured him as a decoy or spy among the whites, and his dress too was so much like the borderers in general as to need no special description. He was of medium size, with sandy hair, lead-colored eyes, a pug nose, a sensual, vicious mouth, and freckled skin. He was a mean, sneaking, contemptible wretch, naturally a great coward, and, as a matter of course, an overbearing, cruel bully. His age was apparently not far from thirty. 
               By the time the savages had finished plundering Henry, poor Isaline had so far revived as to raise her head, with a wild stare at Hampton, and ask where she was. 
               "With the best friend you have in the world, my dear Isaline!" replied Hampton, in a low, clear, almost musical tone. 
               Isaline gazed into his face with that peculiar, blinking look of wonder which a person sometimes exhibits when suddenly roused out of a heavy sleep, and her pallid features expressed some degree of mental anguish, mingled with a blank look of incomprehension. 
               "You are not Henry Colburn?" she said, in a rather doubting way. 
               "No," returned the other, with a sneering smile, "I rather flatter myself I am not. I am a gentleman, Miss Holcombe, and your particular friend-Charles Hampton, at your service." 
               "Hampton!" she exclaimed, as if suddenly comprehending the fearful truth, and glancing around upon the hideous group of savages. "Oh, my God! my God! then my horrible dream is true! and I am in the power of these monsters at last! Oh, where is my friend and protector, Henry Colburn?" 
               "Here!" cried the young artist, at once springing forward. 
               But he was not permitted to reach her side; for some three or four savage hands at once seized and hurled him backward with such force that he fell to the ground. 
                
               Isaline uttered a wild scream. 
               "Take him away!" cried Hampton, in an angry tone. 
               Blodget said a few words to the Indians, only one or two of whom could even imperfectly understand English, and they at once gathered around Henry and dragged him back through the bushes up to the top of the hill. 
               "Oh, let me go with him!" cried Isaline, staggering to her feet and attempting to follow. 
               "Nay, my dear girl, rather remain here with me!" said Hampton, twining his arm around her slender waist and detaining her by gentle force. 
               "Villain!" cried Isaline; "unhand me and let me go!" 
               The thin lips of Hampton compressed, his brow gathered into a frown, and his black, snaky eyes shot angry gleams, as he said, in a tone that was stern and cold: 
               "Villain is a term that very few have ever applied to me personally, and I believe they have all suffered for it, or will before I shall have done with them." 
               "Well, you are a villain!" iterated Isaline, her brave soul rising up strong under the pressure of her wrongs; "or else you would never have deserted your own race, like a coward, and linked yourself with blood-thirsty savages, to pursue and hunt down a defenceless girl who never did you a wrong." 
               "It is seldom I condescend to an explanation of my acts," rejoined Hampton; "but in your case, Miss Holcombe, I will do so, because I see you are excited and laboring under a serious mistake, and I really have a desire to stand well in your regard. I did not quit my own race intentionally, to throw myself among the savages and hunt you down, as you have so cruelly asserted; but accident threw me among a party of Indians who were already on their way to attack and destroy our whole train; and thinking solely of you, and that in no other way could I possibly save you, I dissembled to them, and pretended that, because of wanting revenge, I was delighted with their plan, and would go with them and give them all the aid in my power, stipulating only that I was to have one prisoner spared to me, which I scarcely need tell you was your own sweet self, for what would the world be to me without the presence of one I so madly love?" 
               "Stop!" said Isaline, with any angry flush; "such language is not suited to the time, place and circumstances." Then looking at him for a few moments, with a steady, unquailing eye, she added: "Was it really for the purpose of saving my life and restoring me to my friends that you joined the Indians?" 
               "I assure you it was, on my honor as a gentleman!" 
               "And were the Indians in sufficient force to attack the whole train?" 
                
               "Yes, they numbered not less than fifty able warriors." 
               "Is that number here present?" 
               "No, there are only six here, and two white men besides myself." 
               "How comes it then that you and these have separated from the others?" 
               "Especially to follow you." 
               "In order to save me?" 
               "Yes, to save you from being lost in the wilderness, or falling into worse hands." 
               "And how did you discover that I had separated from the train?" 
               "By accident," replied Hampton, seeming eager to enter into a satisfactory explanation. "We were all pursuing the train, and had almost come up with it, when we were overtaken by the tempest and laid by in the wood, fortunately just the other side of the track of the tornado. While at that place, waiting for the storm to pass over, a couple of Indians, who had been out hunting and scouting, came in, and one of them showed me a small piece of calico, which he had found hanging to a bramble, and which I at once recognized as a part of your dress. That you may be certain I am telling you the truth," said Hampton, "I will show it to you, for I have treasured it as something sacred;" and he at once produced and held up the article before the astonished eyes of Isaline. 
               It was indeed a piece of her dress, about half as large as the palm of her hand, which had been torn from near the bottom of her skirt. 
               "As soon as I saw this," pursued the artful villain, "I arranged with a friend of mine and six of the Indians to follow you, for you were all that concerned me in this unpleasant affair, most of the others having treated me in a manner to excite a spirit of enmity, so that I did not care what became of them. We hurried to the spot where the piece of dress had been found, and there discovered, what the Indian scouts had before mentioned, that the trail of yourself and companion was connected with the trail of two horses; but why you were afoot and the horses preceding you, in such an out-of-the-way place, I could not understand till I came to the point where you had stopped and turned off to go back; and then I conjectured that you had first ridden away from the train, that the horses had subsequently got away from you, and that you had followed them as far as you had thought prudent and were then endeavoring to make your way back to your companions on foot. Was I right?" 
               "Yes," replied Isaline. 
               "Well," pursued Hampton, "we hurried along on your backward trail, a very clear one in the wet earth, I being anxious to overtake you before any harm could come to you, and at length found where you had retraced your own steps and turned off into a mass of fallen timbers; and then the Indians stopped and hallooed, judging from the signs that we were close upon you. Was such the fact? did you hear us?" 
               "Yes," answered Isaline. 
               "Well, as you know, we did not overtake you yesterday, greatly to my disappointment, for I was much afraid you would suffer last night. We found where you had broken your trail in the water, which showed the sagacious experience of your guide; but night fell upon us before we could discover the new one, and we were obliged to encamp and give up the pursuit for the time. At the first streak of day I roused up all the Indians, and we made an eager search, and fortunately discovered your new trail by the time it was fairly light. We followed it rapidly, but found it zig-zag, winding, twisting, and turning, as if you had been in great uncertainty about your proper course. It finally led, as you of course know, to a miserable hut on the bank of the Licking, where we found a white man, who had been brought up among the Indians, and who was in a terrible rage, because, as he said, he had discovered and brought you into his dwelling, and given you hospitable entertainment, and you had this morning repaid him, or rather your companion had, by getting possession of his rifle, on pretence of wanting to shoot a bird, and then had run off, threatening to shoot him if he followed." 
               "That was done in self-defence," explained Isaline, "for he was preparing to kill my companion, in order to get possession of myself." 
                
               "The villain!" exclaimed Hampton, with righteous indignation; "only let him dare to put a hand on you now! Do not fear any more, sweet lady! henceforth you are under my protection!" 
               Isaline shuddered, for she felt it was the lamb under the protection of the wolf. 
               "Well, as I have said," Hampton went on, "this fellow was in a terrible rage, and hurriedly told the Indians his whole story and then declared his intention, not only of joining in the pursuit, but of joining them altogether and returning with them to his old home. We followed you to the spot where you had again broken your trail, and which I must admit was so artfully done that we were on the point of giving up the search, when one of the Indians discovered that you had been on the little island, and must of course have left it by jumping into the river, as your still dripping garments certainly prove you did. Then I confess I was more alarmed than ever, fearing you were drowned. We immediately began a search along down the bank of the stream, which I am happy to say has resulted in complete success. I am sorry to find you have been unnecessarily alarmed, though of course you could not know that instead of an enemy you were being followed by your best friend. Even here we might have failed of our object but for the Providential discharge of your companion's rifle, which led us directly to the spot." 
                
               Isaline groaned in spirit at the recollection of that most imprudent, not to say fatal, act. 
               "And now?" said Isaline, looking straight into Hampton's eye, with a kind of trembling eagerness: "what do you intend to do with me now that you have me in your power?" 
               "Protect and treasure you as a gem of which the world does not produce a counterpart!" returned the other, with an enthusiastic glow. "Come, now that you know all, sweet lady, will you not recall that odious word villain, which you applied to me in the heat of passionate excitement?" 
               Isaline was on the point of giving an indignant and scornful rejoinder, but suddenly bethought her it could do no good and might do much harm, she being so completely in his power. Would it not be policy for her to dissemble a little-to play a part-and thus as it were use the only weapon she had for self-defence? Perhaps, by affecting to believe the villian, and appearing to become in a degree reconciled to her situation, she might obtain over him an influence that she could use to her own advantage, and possibly to the advantage of Henry Colburn, who might otherwise have no friendly aid. She pondered for a few moments, rapidly taking all these matters into consideration, but apparently weighing only what the other had said, and then replied, as if with an altered view, though still with a lingering doubt: 
               "If all you tell me is true, Mr. Hampton, I will not maintain that I was justified in using the language I did." 
               "All is true that I have told you, dear lady, on my honor as a gentleman!" he eagerly returned, with a glow of satisfaction. "Had I really been the villain you supposed, should I not have used my present power to resent the insult, instead of taking so much pains to convince you of your mistake?" 
               "Perhaps you would," she replied, in a manner to convey the idea of regret for her hasty expression. 
               "You see, Miss Isaline," he rejoined, with what he intended to be a winning smile, "it is my proudest ambition to stand high in your regard, and this very fact unfortunately has been the leading cause of all my troubles. You must have seen, you must have known, dear lady, that I have long loved you, even to idolatrous worship; and when I fancied there was another, a mere adventurer as I may say; coming between you and me, I became as one insane, and not only said, but did, some rash and perhaps unjustifiable things." 
               "Among which," returned Isaline, effectually concealing, by her determined will, a shudder of disgust, "was the running away from me and leaving me to suppose you dead." 
               "I was forced into that act, my dear Isaline, by the rough enemies who surrounded me and a combination of other circumstances. As probably you know, I was actually compelled to go out into the dark wood, on that dark night, ostensibly to fight a duel with Colburn, but in reality to be murdered; and but for the fact that we were interrupted in a most mysterious and fearful manner, I am certain I should not be living now." 
               "I have heard something of it," said Isaline, "and was led to fear you had been destroyed. What was it that followed you? and how did you escape? and why did you not return to the boat?" 
               "What it was that followed me," answered Hampton, glancing quickly around him, as if he feared it still, "I do not know; but it was something frightful, and I confess. I was scared, as were all the others who heard it. I escaped, I suppose, by running away from it-for after a time I found myself alone in the depths of the forest. After what had happened, I did not care to return to the boat, to meet with new insults, not to say downright brutality; but I could not if I had wished, for I had got lost in the wood, and was compelled to wander around alone, living as best I could, till I finally fell in with the Indians, who have proved better friends to me than their white foes." 
               In part the whole statement of Hampton was true and in part false; for, in fact, toward evening of the next day after the intended duel, he had reached the Kentucky side of the Ohio river ahead of the boats, which had happened at the moment to be coming around the bend above; and he had seated himself on a log there to wait for them, intending to hail them, when, to his surprise, he had heard them hailed from the other shore, and had really been a witness of the exciting scene described in a former chapter. This event had then changed his whole purpose, and had led to his wicked design of joining the Indians and inciting them to make an incursion into Kentucky, that he might revenge himself on the scouts and obtain possession of Isaline, for a reason yet to be shown. Knowing enough of the Indian character to believe they would receive a deserter in a friendly manner, he had gone up to a point opposite to the place where the decoy had appeared, and there, by shouting and showing himself, had attracted the attention of the savages; and then, in sight of them, had actually plunged into the water and attempted to swim across the river. As they were provided with a few canoes, which they had not attempted to use against the voyagers, they sent one to meet him. Once among them, with Blodget acting as interpreter, he had managed to accomplish his vile purpose of inciting them to follow the voyagers, by assuring them the latter were mostly women and children, and that an easy victory, a terrible revenge, and much valuable booty would be their reward. At first the Indians had thought their party too few for the venture; but having been subsequently joined by some thirty fresh warriors, eager to distinguish themselves, they had crossed the Ohio in the night, in canoes, a few at a time, and had since been aiming to keep back out of sight and come up with their intended victims in the vicinity of the Blue Licks. 
               These facts, it will be seen, agree with the language used by Hampton while Henry was supporting the unconscious Isaline; but as she had heard nothing of that, he felt he could say what he pleased to her without fear of any contradictory statement being pointed out. 
               "Did I understand you to say the Indians were some fifty in number and intended attacking the train?" inquired Isaline, with an anxious look. 
               "Yes," he replied; "and doubtless ere this the whole number of whites are either killed or prisoners; so that you may be thankful, as I am, that you are not among them." 
               At this moment there rung out a fierce cry from some one of the party who had carried off Henry, followed by loud, savage laughter; and fearing, she knew not what, Isaline involuntarily clasped her hands, turned more deadly pale, shuddered, and grew sick at heart. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               CAPTORS AND CAPTIVES. 
               "I THINK our friends are having a little sport up yonder," said Hampton, glancing up the hill: "suppose we go up and join them and see what it is!" 
               "Oh, yes," returned Isaline, starting forward with an eagerness that too clearly betrayed her feelings. 
               Hampton was instantly by her side, but an angry frown was on his brow. 
               "One might almost fancy you were anxious to get away from me!" he said. 
               Isaline saw at once the mistake she had made, and the tell tale blood sprung into her cheeks, as she rejoined: 
               "I am anxious to see what is taking place." 
               "I suppose there is one there who interests you more than myself!" said the other, watching her closely. 
               "I will not deny, Mr. Hampton," returned Isaline, frankly, "that I take a great interest in Henry Colburn; and I could not do otherwise without being ungrateful; for he has not only been very kind to me, but has perilled his life to save mine." 
               "Yes, first got you into difficulty and then tried to get you out-wonderful magnanimity!" sneered the other. 
               "It was my fault that I turned off from the train," said Isaline quietly. 
               "Of course-I understand-he is always right in your eyes-a paragon of excellence!" 
               To this Isaline made no reply, feeling that nothing she could say would tend to make matters any better. 
               "I must get rid of that fellow!" was the dark thought now uppermost in the mind of Hampton. 
               Nothing more was said till they reached the top of the hill, where Isaline was pained beyond measure at seeing Henry, with a face red and swollen, as if from blows, bound to a sapling, with his arms tightly corded behind his back, and the Indians and the white men standing together in a group, a short distance from him, evidently holding a serious consultation. 
               "What is it, Blodget?" asked Hampton, as he drew near. 
               The latter turned around, and showed a bloody, swollen nose, and an eye nearly closed. 
               "See where the - scoundrel struck me!" he said, gnashing his teeth. 
               "Oogh! him down go!" grinned Methoto. 
               "Did he really knock you down?" inquired Hampton, in a condoling tone, but scarcely able to repress a smile at the doleful appearance of the decoy. 
                
               "He struck me, my foot slipped, and I fell!" replied Blodget, not caring to admit what might have seemed to compliment too highly the strength and skill of his adversary. 
               "And that is what the Indians were laughing at!" 
               "Yes!" snapped Blodget. 
               "But what caused him to strike you?" 
               "Oh, just a little playful joke of mine! I was just feeling his arms, and telling him how nice they'd crackle when he'd come to be burnt at the stake-that's all!" 
               "It is strange he should have got angry at a little innocent fun like that," smiled Hampton, "and I am surprised you didn't punish him on the spot!" 
               "I'd have killed him," returned Blodget, fiercely, "only the Indians wouldn't let me; but I pummeled his face to my satisfaction!" 
               Isaline, who heard all this, groaned in spirit; but she made no remark, feeling how useless were mere words with such villains. 
               The savages, who were evidently holding an important consultation when thus interrupted, waited patiently till Blodget had finished his conversation with Hampton, and then said something to him in their own language, to which he replied, and immediately gave his whole attention to them. After this, not many words were exchanged, for they all appeared to be of one mind; and the matter, which evidently related to their next movements, was soon settled. They then released Henry from the tree, but kept his arms corded, and, forming themselves in single file, placed him in the centre, with Blodget close behind him and Methoto next, leaving Hampton to bring up the rear with his prisoner, or follow in what manner he might choose. 
               "Look'e here," said Blodget to Colburn, with the spiteful malice of a brutal wretch, "I don't owe you any good will, as you know, and some day I'll make you feel it! What I want of you now is, to mind and keep the file, or I'll just rap you over the head; and if you attempt to run, or dodge one side, I'll send a bullet through your back! Do you understand?" 
               "I understand!" replied Henry, quietly. 
               "And this to show you I'm in earnest!" added the cowardly villain, giving the other a rousing box on the ear. 
               Henry started, with a fierce strain on the cords that confined his wrists together behind him; but finding himself powerless to act, he immediately became very quiet; and the hot blood, which had sprung to his face, suddenly retreated and left it very pale. 
               "Oh, sir, can you permit such cruelty to a bound and unarmed prisoner?" said Isaline, almost convulsively clutching the arm of Hampton, and turning her white face pleadingly to his. 
               "I have no power over him; he is not my prisoner; my stipulation only extended to your own sweet self!" coolly replied Hampton. 
               "But you certainly have some influence with that man, and the Indians also, and you should use it for humanity's sake!" 
               "You mistake the extent of my influence, my dear girl, which, as I have already told you, only reaches to yourself," he quietly answered. "If I were to attempt to interfere with them, in their affairs, I should open the door for them to do the same in mine, and that might some time be the worse for you." 
               "And what are you going to do with me?" inquired the poor girl, making a great struggle with herself to appear calm and composed: "where are you taking me to now?" 
               "I do not exactly know what the Indians have decided on; but I judge they intend striking off across the country, with the view of joining the main body." 
               "And are you going to keep with them?" 
               "Why, where else should I go?" 
               "I thought you were at liberty to separate from them!" 
               "Hardly that, I think!" answered Hampton; "and if I were, where should I go?" 
               Isaline shuddered and turned deadly pale. The horrible truth was dawning upon her. Hitherto, seeing Hampton and herself with so much freedom, she had not exactly felt herself a prisoner, except to him, and had contemplated for herself nothing more annoying and fearful than a solitary journey with him, instead of Henry, through the wilderness, to her father's home; but now she became truly alarmed, for his language led to the conviction that he intended going with the savages back into their own country. 
               "Surely, Mr. Hampton," she said, with trembling eagerness, "you will take me to some place-some station-where I can be sent forward to my father?" 
               "Why, as to that," he coolly replied, "I think not, under the circumstances. In fact it would hardly be prudent for me at present to put myself in the power of your rough Kentuckians, who have a very unpleasant fashion of shooting or hanging any man they don't happen to fancy. Besides, I have risked everything to get possession of you-whom, I am sure, your father don't love with half the devotion I do-and to part with you now, and lose you forever, would render me perfectly miserable." 
               "Oh, my God!" groaned Isaline, clasping her hands; "am I really to be carried off among the Indians?" 
               "Why, that is nothing, my dear girl; they will not harm you; you see how friendly they are to us now, leaving us to do as we please; and besides, you must not forget that, wherever you go, I shall be with you-the true friend you have so long known-the man who, though I say it myself, loves you above all others!" 
                
               It was too much for poor Isaline; in spite of herself, nature would have its way; and suddenly covering her face with her hands, she burst into tears. 
               Charles Hampton did not chide her rudely; he continued the outward seeming of a gentleman; and he offered her a mock consolation, which was more difficult for her to bear up under than the sharpest words of displeasure would have been. For several minutes she cried and sobbed as if her heart would break; but at length her tears ceased to flow, and she gradually became calm again, at least in external appearance. After this a deadly pallor settled upon her beautiful features, which became rigid and marble-like, and she moved on steadily and uncomplainingly, asking no questions, making no remarks, seemingly undisturbed by any occurrence, and only speaking when so pointedly addressed that she could not well evade a brief answer. 
               The day was clear and warm, but not uncomfortable for travelling, and the Indians pushed forward at a brisk walk, in single file, evidently aiming to strike the great buffalo trace by a line nearly due east. In a little over an hour they reached it, and then all examined it eagerly for such signs as would give them information concerning their friends and decide their own course. They appeared to be rather disappointed-for, instead of yells of triumph, they soon collected together for consultation, and spoke eagerly and gesticulated rapidly, often pointing in the direction of the ford. 
               "Well, Blodget, what is it? what do they make out?" asked Hampton, as soon as he could get an opportunity to call the decoy aside. 
               "Why, it seems the whites and Indians both have passed here, going toward the Blue Licks," was the reply; "but there are no signs that the latter have returned, and it's feared the warriors didn't get up in season to attack them before they crossed the river." 
               "I am sorry for that," said Hampton. "Surely they had time enough after we left them, for the train was only a short distance ahead." 
               "I'm afraid they waited too long for the storm to pass over, while the others maybe pushed on, and perhaps crossed the river before the water got too high." 
               "A curse on the storm!" snarled Hampton; "and, saving your presence, a curse on their laziness! If they had attended to their business, as we did to ours, they would have had them all before this! You are sure they have passed this way?" 
               "Look for yourself! Don't you see the moccasin tracks?" 
               "But the whites wore moccasins too!" 
               "You don't know much about wilderness life," returned Blodget, with a rather contemptuous smile, "if you can't tell these tracks were left by Indian feet, and after the storm had nigh gone over too! Look at the horse tracks-they're nearly all washed out, while the moccasin prints are a good deal plainer." 
               "I can see the difference now," rejoined Hampton; "but, according to your showing, both must have gone over this ground while it was still raining, though the last some time later than the first." 
               "Yes, now you've got it," said Blodget. 
               "But you are sure they have not returned?" 
               "Not by here, anyhow. There, see! the Indians are separating now, to strike off on either side and hunt for other signs!" 
               As he spoke, the savages indeed flew off in different directions from the beaten route, and were soon lost among the trees and bushes, Methoto also joining them, leaving only Blodget and Hampton with the two prisoners. Had Henry's arms then been free, he would have bounded away, at the risk of being shot down; but as it was, he leaned his back against a tree, and remained as passive as the most ordinary spectator, saying nothing, and apparently taking little or no interest in what was going on. Blodget kept his eye on him in a suspicious manner, and his rifle in his hands, ready for an instant shot, in case he should make the slightest attempt at escape. That there might be no mistake about it, he growled out: 
               "If you want to run, you young whelp, you can try it; but I tell you now I'm dead sure for a hundred dred yards, and I only want a good excuse for sending a bullet through your cursed head!" 
               Henry apparently took no notice of this threat, and kept perfectly silent. He did not even look at poor Isaline-who, for some time, stood like a marble statue, only a few paces from him-and she in turn scarcely glanced at him. The last two hours seemed to have worked a wonderful change in both. 
               At length, as if she felt the fatigue of standing, Isaline stepped back to a stone, seated herself upon it, buried her face in her hands, and remained perfectly quiet. 
               "She gets along very well, all things considered!" said Hampton, nodding toward his victim. 
               "A right sensible girl!" responded Blodget. "I wouldn't mind if I had her myself; for I want a good wife; and somehow, you see, I suppose it's nature, I prefer a white one to a squaw." 
               "And have you no wife?" asked Hampton. 
               "Oh, yes, a couple of squaws; but they're too coarse and vulgar for me, and I've determined on picking up a white one somewhere." 
               "How long have you been with the Indians?" 
               "Well, I've been among them, off and on-trader, agent, and so on-about ten or twelve years; but for the last five I've lived with them straight along." 
               "Of course you have a good deal of influence with them?" 
               "Some, I flatter myself." 
               "Well, I hope you will see that they make sure work of that fellow yonder!" said Hampton, with a meaning smile. "That girl loves him, I am certain, and of course he stands in my way; but if I were to do anything to him, and she were to find it out, it might set her too much against me. Not but that I could bend her to my will," added Hampton, as if he thought the matter needed some explanation; "but brute force, in these love affairs, you know, is not exactly the thing one likes most to try." 
               "Oh, I understand!" smiled the other villain; "it's all right. Well, don't you have any fear, Hampton! I'll see him settled, if only to pay off my own score. I'd like to take his heart's blood now!" he pursued, with a wicked gleam of his leaden eyes; "but I know, if we keep him, he'll be put to the tortures, and so I'll try to keep myself down till then." 
               These two villains stood conversing together till the Indians returned, dropping in one after another; and then another consultation was held, which resulted in a positive decision. 
               "What is it?" again asked Hampton of Blodget. 
               "They're satisfied their friends haven't returned this way," replied the latter, "and they're for going on to overtake them." 
               "What! further into the heart of the country?" exclaimed Hampton. "I do not like that-I am afraid we shall get into trouble! If we cross the Licking, and the country over there gets roused, it will not be the easiest thing for us to escape!" 
                
               "Oh, we've nothing to fear, with nearly fifty Indians ahead of us!" laughed Blodget. 
               "I don't know that; these border fellows are perfect devils when their blood is up!" 
               "Well, the Indians are going forward, so there's no use in talking!" said Blodget. "See! they're already forming their file; so fall in! fall in!" 
               Henry quietly took his place in the file as before; but Isaline seemed not aware of what was going on till Hampton touched her on the shoulder. Then she slowly lifted her white, marble-like face, and arose without a word. 
               "You have become wonderfully quiet all at once!" said Hampton, as he walked along by her side. 
               Isaline made no answer. 
               "Why don't you speak?" he said, rather sharply. 
               "You did not ask me a question!" 
               "Oh, then you are only to speak when I ask you a question, eh?" 
               "I would rather not speak at all," returned Isaline, with a sort of icy calmness; "but I do not like to refuse to answer you a direct question." 
               "I suppose if you had that fellow Colburn here in my place, it would make a wonderful difference!" sneered the other. As Isaline made no answer to this, he shortly added, in a cold, offended tone: "I beg you will not trouble yourself to address me any oftener than may suit your ladyship's pleasure and convenience!" 
               The Indians went forward at a brisk pace; and in little more than an hour the whole party reached the Blue Lick ford-a wild, gloomy place-which they approached along the bare, rocky ridge, where the famous battle was fought which resulted so disastrously to the Kentuckians. Here the Indians halted, and again looked for signs. They found what satisfied them that both their friends and enemies had passed over the river, and they immediately plunged into the ford and waded across, the water being now only breast high. Henry, with his wrists still bound together behind his back, only kept his feet with great difficulty; and Isaline would have been carried down the stream but for the support of Hampton. This was the second time that day that she had found herself struggling in the waters of the Licking; and she almost regretted she had not perished at first-for death with Henry, she felt, would be far preferable to a life with him who was now by her side. 
               On reaching the other bank of the Licking, the Indians struck off so rapidly through the country, that Isaline found a good deal of difficulty in keeping up with them. In something like three miles from the ford they came to a small clearing and the smoking ruins of a cabin, which showed that the foremost party had already begun their work of destruction. On seeing this, the savages present gave a few yells of triumph, for to them it was a proof that their friends were successful, and led them to believe they had nothing to fear. They made no halt, being eager to overtake the advance and share in the victory which they supposed awaited them. 
               Hampton did not feel so sanguine. It was evident to his mind that the whites had made a rapid march, probably because of some of the scouts having discovered the foes behind them; and he reasoned that, in the event of their reaching a station before being assailed by the savages, matters might soon take a very different turn from what the latter expected or wished. He had now with him all he had sought; and therefore, with everything to lose and nothing to gain by a further advance into the country, he was in a mood to be highly displeased with the present pursuit, and now and then vented an idle curse on the folly of the savages. This, however, altered nothing and amounted to nothing-for the Indians kept steadily on, as unmindful of him and his secret opinions as if he had not been in existence. At length, from some cause, perhaps from a premonition of approaching peril, he suddenly left Isaline and darted to the side of Blodget. 
               "Speak to the Indians," he said, "and tell them this foolish pursuit is leading them into danger!" 
               Blodget looked at him with an air of surprise. 
               "What danger? where?" he asked, glancing quickly around him. 
               "I only know this - country from hearsay," returned Hampton, with an oath; "but I have been told there is a fort or station within half-a-day's journey of the Blue Licks, and you may be sure the parties we are pursuing have got possession of it before this time!" 
               "The more lucky for them, if they have!" replied the other; "though it don't follow they won't come out of it, for all that!" 
               "But don't you see that if we attempt to lay siege to it, we shall give the borderers time to collect together and turn on us?" 
               "No, I don't exactly see it before it's tried," said Blodget; "and even if they should, they might get the worst of it. Stations have been taken before now, with less numbers than we've got in the country, and I'm not a bit afraid!" 
               "If we should happen to be overpowered," rejoined Hampton, "it would be all up with us; for we are already so far into the country that there would be no hope of our ever getting out of it!" 
               "Of course, when we set out for revenge, plunder and glory, we've got to risk something! You yourself were fierce enough about coming, and through me urged this very undertaking upon the Indians, promising them an easy victory and a great amount of booty!" 
               "Yes, provided they could overtake the whites and attack them in the wilderness; and which they might have done, if they had only pushed on and struck the blow at the right time!" said Hampton; "but since they have missed their chance, I think they had better change their plan." 
                
               "Well, what do you want them to do now?" 
               "Turn back and secure a safe retreat." 
               "Then you'd better hurry up and tell them so!" rejoined Blodget, with a quizzical look. 
               "I am not responsible for the main body, since I am not with them," pursued Hampton; "but I think you ought to warn the present party of the probable danger ahead." 
               "Not before I see it myself!" dryly responded the decoy. 
               "Then, if anything should happen, I hope you will remember that I gave you fair warning!" said Hampton, in a cold, offended tone; and he immediately fell back to the side of Isaline. 
               "He's got what he wanted, and now he'd like to put back!" muttered Blodget; "but he might as well learn, first as last, that we didn't make this long journey just to please him!" 
               The Indians of course understood nothing of this conversation, and kept steadily hastening forward, in good spirits, expecting soon to come up with their friends in advance. 
               They soon reached a point where it was evident the train had turned off to the right of the main route to Lexington, and had been followed by their pursuers; and, with a few exultant yells, our little band of savages pushed on without stopping. 
               During the next three hours they passed the black and still smoking ruins of three isolated cabins, and soon after the reports of musketry began to be distinctly heard. 
               A quarter of an hour later they ascended, with great caution, a sharp little knoll, on the edge of a broad clearing, and beheld a strong block-house on the opposite side, with a large cornfield stretching between it and them, and Indians here and there skulking about, some firing and some yelling. This was a sight to delight the hearts of the newly-arrived savages; and they immediately gave two prolonged scalp halloos, followed by several quick, short yells of triumph, and heard more than forty voices in jubilant response, some near and some far, showing that the stronghold of the whites was completely surrounded. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE REGULAR TRAIN. 
               IT will be remembered that when Henry and Isaline turned aside from the main route to visit the Indian mound, the train was moving through an open wood, at a snail-like pace. It kept the same slow movement, till Rough Tom, glancing westward, perceived the indications of a gathering tempest, even though no thunder had yet been heard; and then, with the rough energy characteristic of the man, he soon effected a wonderful change in the motions of both horse and foot. 
               "Hurry up and hurry on!" he shouted, so as to be heard the whole length of the line; "for thar's a storm a coming that'll raise the ford so's we can't cross for two days, and maybe not for a week! Whip up the hosses, boys, and put out like a streak of greased lightning!" 
               The other scouts, drivers and riders, took the alarm, and in less than a minute the whole train was dashing away at as great a speed as the safety of the goods and loaded animals would permit. 
               "Whar's your misses?" at length exclaimed Tom, as he happened to find himself running along side the horse on which the frightened Priscilla and Rhoda were uncomfortably seated, and which, by dint of a good deal of whipping and cursing by one of the drivers, had been started into a hog canter. 
               "I-I-Ise doesn't know perzactly," answered the old nurse, with her teeth fairly chattering, as she clung to Rhoda, who in turn clung to the pummel of the saddle and the horse's mane; "bu-bu-but she's done gone rid off wi-wi-with Marsa Co-Co-Colbrum, and Ise got out my ske-ske-skeers on her, I has!" 
               Tom turned to the next, and put the question concerning Miss Holcombe, and received an answer that gave him some definite information. Then he ripped out about half-a-dozen oaths in succession, and said, "Whar's the use?" at least three times. 
               "Jest like him-al'ays arter some-finiky!" he continued to mutter. "Now I'll bet my head agin a skunk-cabbage, that he's eyther making love to that ar gal, or drawing some fool of a pictur', and won't know thar's a storm a brewing till he gits knocked over with a chunk of chain lightning! Woofh! whar's the use? He-yar we is now, making tracks for the ford, and leaving him and the colonel's darter behind in a way that arn't safe. It won't do-I've got to go back arter 'em! Ha! thar goes the thunder; but I spect he won't hear nothing till the sky falls in and the 'arth shakes him off his feet! Lord save us!" he added, once more glancing at the ominous sky; "thar's agwine to be a screecher that'll make things howl!" 
               Hurriedly telling one of his companions to push on with all speed, and cross the ford at once if possible, Tom turned and started back on a run, intending to find Henry and Isaline, inform them of what had been done, and if, as he feared, they should be too late for getting over the river that day, to remain with them till they should be able to join their companions. At this time the train had passed over a low ridge and was rapidly making its way through a small thicket of cane; and by the time that Tom, in going back, had again reached the top of the ridge, he beheld the tempest driving up from the west in all its startling fury. He kept on, however, till the tornado struck the wood before him; and then he paused and gazed upon the crashing work of destruction, with feelings of awe if not of terror. 
               It will be remembered we stated the track of the tornado to be some half-a-mile wide, and its duration about half-an-hour, though it continued to rain heavily till near sunset. Tom had not got back far enough to be caught in the whirl of the hurricane, though it was plainly in sight; and when he saw the awful work of destruction before him, he groaned in spirit at the thought that perhaps both Henry and Isaline were beyond earthly aid. Still he felt it his duty to know; and as soon as he could go forward with safety, he did. 
               He went in among the fallen timbers, and was diligently working his way through them, when he was suddenly startled at hearing Indian voices. His position at the moment happened to be in a spot where he was completely concealed by tangled branches, vines and leaves; and, by carefully creeping forward some two or three paces, he was enabled to get a view of three savages in their war-paint, who were standing upon the fallen trunk of a tree, conversing in low tones, and gesticulating in a way to lead the experienced woodman to infer they were speaking of the train that had passed. They soon moved off in the direction Tom had been going, and he pushed on to reconnoitre, but now of course with all his senses on the alert and using the greatest caution. 
               In something less than half an hour he came in sight of the main body, and counted twenty-five warriors, with the belief there were many others he did not see. They had evidently been waiting for the storm to pass over, but now seemed preparing to resume their pursuit of the train, and Tom felt that matters had reached a very critical condition. Should the whites fail to cross the ford, and the savages get up and attack them at that place, nothing he thought could save them, and he now felt it his duty to return with all possible dispatch. 
               This, however, was not an easy thing to do; for it was not unlikely that the Indian scouts were out in different directions, and he would have to use the greatest caution to work himself back through the fallen timbers without being discovered, while the savages could push right on without fear of molestation. Fortunately for all concerned, the latter were slow in their movements, doubtless supposing the whites would not attempt to cross the ford that day in the swollen condition of the river, and, by stealing upon and surprising them after dark, they would have them at their mercy. 
               This delay of the savages was the only thing in fact that saved the whites; for when Tom did finally get back to them, a little before sunset, he found them at the ford, but still on the right bank of the Licking, passively awaiting his return. The news he brought of course threw them into the greatest consternation, and some of the women and children became so frantic with terror that much time was lost in restoring anything like order and getting them mounted. It was indeed a wild, exciting scene; for the water had already risen so much that the stream could only be crossed by swimming; and when the mounted travellers were urged into it on their horses, it seemed to them as if they were only substituting one death for another. Every moment it was expected the appalling yells of the savages would ring in their ears, accompanied by a shower of bullets; and believing it would be certain death, or a hopeless captivity for them to remain, they braved the perils before them as the only alternative. 
               It was a terrific struggle through the water, accompanied by many thrilling incidents, hair-breadth escapes, some screaming, and a good deal of rough shouting and cursing; but providentially the whole party reached the other shore, with the horses, goods, and nearly everything belonging to them. 
               They had little time, however, to congratulate themselves on their deliverance from the perils of the flood, before the savages made their appearance on the other bank, uttering yells of disappointment and rage, and firing a volley across, one bullet of which did fatal execution, by piercing the brain of a little girl who was seated before her mother on a horse which was in the act of dashing away. As nearly every rifle of the scouts had been wet in crossing the river, they made no attempt to return the fire of their enemies, but adopted the more prudent course of leaving the vicinity with all possible haste. 
               It was expected the Indians would cross the river and pursue them, either that night or early in the morning; and therefore it was all important that they should push on for some strong-hold without stopping by the way. 
               "We'll put for Higgins' Block-house, on the South Branch of Licking!" decided Tom, who, by general assent, was the principal head or director of the party. "It's a bit out of our way; but then we haint no time jest now to foller a bee line; and I wants to see these yere women and children inside of so'thing thicker'n a cloth tent afore we sleep. I tell you now, boys, we've had a heap of tight dodging for to-day, and I feel like a used up possum. I knowed it! it all comes of that - Phantom! I told you how it 'ud be-it's al'ays so. Agh! wagh! woofh! Whar's the use? Poor Harry and the colonel's darter-it's all over with them-and I'd rayther missed ten red-nigger sculps nor had the thing happed-yes, sir! If they war only with us now, my sperets would be up a heap; for as to these yere infarnal Injuns, I don't want no better sport nor for them to foller us and run thar heads into a mashing-trap. Ef they comes arter us-and it's jest as like as not they'll be fools enough to do it, seeing we've got so many women and children with us, and sich a heap of plunder-ef they comes arter us, I say, all them as gits out of old Kaintuck alive may brag on't!" 
               "Spose thar'll be force enough at Higginses to lick 'em?" asked one of the others. 
               "I don't know what Higgins has got now, but I know I kin fotch men enough in two days to chaw up all the painted devils this side of blue blazes!" 
               "But matters mought git too hot for us in two days, Tom?" 
               "I'll say ten hours then for these yere rip-scullion thieves! How'll that do, hey?" 
               "Wall, I reckon we kin stand 'em ten hours, ef the fort's in any kind of trim at all." 
               "You know the road all right, don't ye, boys?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Then I'll purty soon guv you the dodge and go for help." 
               At the point where the travellers turned off to the right of the Lexington route, Rough Tom left them, himself keeping straight on. 
               It will be remembered that when Henry and Isaline passed over the same ground as the main party the next day, they saw three or four cabins in smoking ruins; but all the people belonging to these had escaped-the scouts having given them warning, as they hurried past, that a large body of savages were close upon them. 
               It was well into the night when our travellers, with loud shouts and cries and an urgent demand for admittance, dashed up to the gate of Higgins' Block-house. They were instantly admitted, horses and all; and then some of the poor, frightened, overfatigued women fainted-the strain on their nervous systems having been too great and too suddenly relaxed. 
               It is not our purpose to dwell on the scene of wild confusion and excitement which followed the introduction of this large number of strangers into so small a fort, under circumstances so calculated to alarm the bravest. The garrison was small, and the fort somewhat out of repair; and so the men immediately set to work, overhauling their arms, casting bullets, strengthening the defences, and otherwise preparing themselves and putting the place in a proper condition for repelling an assault. 
               The savages did not reach the fort that night-for of course they could not follow the trail after dark-but they came on the next morning, plundering ing and burning the deserted cabins on the way. No extra reinforcement of the garrison had yet arrived; but the men within were in good spirits and ready to receive their foes, not doubting they could hold out till their friends should appear and turn the siege into a rout. 
               In fact, though small, Higgins' Block-house, as it was called, and is still known in history, was a fortification which, with even a moderate defence, was not easily to be carried by assault. It consisted of some six or eight log huts, of two stories in height, loop-holed for musketry, with the second stories of each flank projecting over the lower, so that a foe could not make a lodgment under the walls. These buildings, joined together in a solid front, were built on a high, projecting cliff, on the right bank of the South Licking, which rolled its waters along some thirty or forty feet below. On only one side could the place be approached-for the three other sides, protected by stockades, overlooked the rocky precipice we have mentioned. A large gate in the centre of the front wall opened into a hollow square, and was the only point of entrance and egress for either man or beast. In front of the fort was a level cornfield, and surrounding this a heavy wood, with here and there a small clearing on the different routes leading to other stations. 
               It was somewhere about nine o'clock in the morning that the Indians made their appearance in the edge of the wood, apparently reconnoitring the ground, and holding a consultation, to decide whether to attack so formidable a place, or to turn off and seek an easy victory in some quarter where much might be hoped from surprise. That they came here at all, after the whites having had hours for preparation, with time enough to send off and rouse the country in every direction, can only be reasonably accounted for on the supposition of a blind infatuation on the part of their leaders. The probability is, that having set out with great elation, in anticipation of an easy conquest and immense reward, they were now determined to dare the worst and risk all, rather than go back empty handed. 
               The moment the savages came in sight, they were discovered by a lookout in the fort, who at once exclaimed, in a jubilant tone: 
               "Thar the red niggers is at last! and now look sharp for fun! I's afeard they wouldn't come." 
               "What's Injun sculps wo'th now, Jim?" called out another: "'cause I spect to hev some to sell." 
               "Don't holler so loud," cried another, "or you'll skeer the varmints afore we gits a shot! Stand back thar, Joe, and let me hev a show! I've a long barrelled chap yere, that I spect kin throw lead amongst 'em, and I wants to try it on that thar tall cuss that stands in front and looks as ef he mought be a chief. Jest you watch him, boys, through tother loop-holes, and tell me what he does arter I fire, for the smoke yere won't let me see quick enough." 
               As he spoke, he thrust a long-barrelled rifle through a loop-hole, took a long, steady aim, and fired. 
               "Whoop! hurrah!" cried half-a-dozen voices; "he staggers; and now they've all put back into the wood out of sight." 
               A moment or two after, the savages were heard yelling like demons. 
               "Ay! ay! that's right-yell away, and be - to you!" exclaimed the man who had fired. "Only come on a leetle nearer, and we'll guv you so'thing more to yell at, you cantankerous thieves!" 
               A minute or two after, one of the men called out: 
               "Hello! what's they doing now?" 
               "It looks like a white rag stuck up on a pole!" said another. 
               "Thar! yes! see! they're waving it!" 
               "A flag of truce!" put in a third; "they're after a confab. Whar's our cap'en?" 
               "Here!" said a stout, good-looking man, who had just come up from below. "What is it, Ike?" 
               "The Injuns want to say so'thing to us, I reckon, for they've got a white cloth stuck up on a pole, a waving this way and t'other." 
               "Perhaps they want to surrender!" said the captain, with a laugh: "we'll give them quarter, eh?" 
               "Rayther say we'd quarter 'em ef we had a chance!" returned the man. 
               "Spotswood," said the captain of the garrison, addressing one of the men, "take our white flag up to the roof, and wave it a few times. It's well enough to know what they've got to say." 
               As soon as this was done, some two or three Indians were seen to leave the wood and approach the fort through the cornfield. They advanced with apparent confidence, as if they had perfect faith in the honor of their foes. 
               The captain and two or three others went up on the roof to hold a parley with them. 
               As soon as they came near enough to be heard, one of the savages stepped out in front of his two companions, and, drawing himself up to his full height, throwing back his head proudly, and tapping his breast in a dignified and graceful manner, he exclaimed: 
               "Me big Injun chief!" 
               "All right," answered the captain, who, by the way, was something of a wag; "nobody disputes you." 
               "Me big chief!" repeated the other; "got thousand brave in wood there!" 
               "That's a lie, you painted nigger, and you know it, or you wouldn't be standing there to ask our permission to come inside!" said the captain, indignantly. 
               "Wood full Injun brave!" persisted the other. 
               "That's a lie, I tell you! and if you don't stop repeating it, we'll lessen your number by three!" 
               "No lie!" said the Indian, shaking his head. 
               "Well, what do you want?" 
                
               "Injun want come in-shake hand-say how de do, white brudder?" 
               "How many want to come in? all the wood full?" 
               "No-hundred." 
               "We hav'n't room for so many; and besides, we hav'n't time to shake hands with so many." 
               "White brudder let red brudder come-shake hand-Injun smile-laugh-go away-no touch scalp-no touch hoss-no touch not'ing." 
               "You're very kind-we're very much obleeged to you-but fortunately we're not in need of visitors." 
               "White brudder chief let Injun brudder chief come, hey?" 
               "We'll let you three come in, if you're very anxious to put your feet into a smash-trap!" answered the captain, with a light laugh. 
               "Spose let hundred Injun come?" 
               "We'll let them come and try to get in against a thousand rifles, for we can count as many hundreds as you can." 
               "Injun want shake hand-say how de do?" 
               "Purty well, thank'e! how's yourself, old scalp-lock?" called out one of the scouts; and this was followed by loud, boisterous laughter. "What's the price of paint, you old devil? and why didn't you trade off your clothes and buy some?" 
               The Indian drew himself up with haughty dignity, and, striking his breast rather angrily, exclaimed: 
                
               "Me big chief!" 
               "Well, go home and wash yourself, you greasy old skunk! and fix yourself up decent to come amongst white gintlemen!" 
               "Injun go fetch hundred-thousand warrior-burn fort-get heap scalp!" cried the chief, with angry gestures. 
               "Travel then, old feathered bluffer, or you'll leave yourn to start with!" rejoined the scout. 
               "Go! we're done with you!" said the captain, waving his hand. 
               The chief turned away with an air of offended dignity; and at that moment some one discharged a rifle-not at the party, in truth, but merely to alarm them. 
               It had the desired effect, and instantly all show of dignity was lost in a ludicrous effort to escape with life. The three savages, with yells of rage and alarm, at once bounded, squatted, jumped, dodged, and ran forward, in a zigzag manner, through the cornfield, never feeling themselves safe till they had disappeared in the wood; while the men at the fort shouted and laughed till the tears ran down their rough, weather-beaten faces. 
               For some time after this, nothing more was seen of the savages, and the scouts began to fear they had made a hasty retreat, to attack some other place less prepared for defence. 
               Along the edge of the bluff, on either side of the fort, were a few trees and bushes; and from among these a volley was suddenly poured upon the block-house house, the fire being directed at the loop-holes, and with such precision of aim that several bullets entered the buildings, and one man was killed and two wounded. This changed the laugh of the inmates to howls of rage, and convinced them that the savages were in earnest about making an attack. The latter, evidently satisfied from the noise within that their volley had done some execution, gave some fierce halloos, which were answered from every quarter, showing that the fort was completely surrounded, some of the Indians even being on the other side of the river. The garrison now began to return the fire of their foes, directing their aim to every place where they thought a single savage might possibly be concealed. Occasionally the Indians showed themselves, here and there, in the cornfield, and along the edge of the wood; and wherever one was seen from the station, a rifle bullet was sent in his direction. 
               Thus the attack and defence was continued, with no marked success on either side, till late in the afternoon, when our little party appeared upon the scene. The garrison heard their yells, and the responses of the Indians surrounding the fort, and were somewhat dismayed at the thought that perhaps their number was already increased by a large reinforcement. 
               Having thus shown how matters stood with the scouts, and the travellers under their charge, we will now return to those in whom we are most deeply interested. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               MORE BRUTALITY. 
               IN the course of a few minutes quite a number of the besiegers had collected around the group of which Henry and Isaline formed a part. The savages at once entered into conversation with one another, and each party probably gave a brief account of what had happened to themselves since they met. Then they seemed to hold a consultation concerning future operations, and, judging from their gestures, more than once took the prisoners into consideration. At length matters seemed to be decided, and they began to separate. 
               Hampton, who had been watching the Indians closely, with a look of anxious impatience, now drew Blodget aside. 
               "What is it?" he asked. 
               "They want me to hail the garrison with a white flag, and say we've got a big reinforcement, and see if I can't get them to surrender. It's of no use, I suppose, for the thing's been tried already, by one of the chiefs, who could speak a little English, and he only got laughed at, and even fired at, for his pains." 
               "Of course it will be of no use," said Hampton, with an expression of uneasiness, "for they know well enough we cannot carry the fort by storm, and that before long we shall in turn be assailed by the reinforcements they have sent for." 
               "How do you know they've sent for them?" 
               "Because they are not natural fools, and have had time enough to dispatch messengers in every direction. I tell you, Blodget, we are standing on a volcano here, and liable to be destroyed at any minute! If these borderers catch us consorting with their savage foes, it will be a strong rope and short shrift for us. Why, in the name of Heaven, don't you use all your influence and endeavor to persuade your Indians to retire while they have a chance, and look for their revenge and plunder in some less guarded quarter?" 
               "Because I think your fears, Hampton, make you overrate the strength of the whites and underrate ours!" answered the other, with a quiet and provoking smile. "It's true, I don't think offering terms to the garrison will do any good; but, for all that, I've no fear that they can raise any party suddenly that can get the better of us. Let them come. We want a few scalps at least, and that in my opinion will be the quickest way to get them." 
               "It is a devilish infatuation that has got hold of you all, and you will soon find it out!" said Hampton. "For my part, I wish I were a hundred miles away!" 
                
               "I hope you're not afraid!" returned Blodget, with a peculiar look. 
               The color sprung into the face of Hampton, and he seemed on the point of making an angry and defiant rejoinder; but he apparently controlled himself, and said, rather coldly: 
               "Sir! whenever the time of trial comes, I trust I shall conduct myself to your satisfaction! It is not always those who boast most who prove bravest in the hour of danger!" 
               "Well," returned Blodget, "I've got no power to alter anything; and as the Indians have laid out my work for me, I must do it. I'll leave you and Methoto with the prisoners; and if anything should happen, so's you can't get off with them, why just brain and scalp them at once, and then make tracks for the Ohio and put for the Indian towns on the Scioto! Methoto 'll show you the way, and I'll tell him what to do." 
               "Tell him not to meddle with the girl!" said Hampton, quickly, with an angry flush; "for she is under my special charge!" 
               "All right, if you can get her off alive; but don't forget that her scalp will count just as much as another, and will help to make a great man of you among the Indians!" 
               Blodget now turned and said a few words to Methoto in the Indian tongue, and the latter grunted and nodded and glanced wickedly at Henry, who was standing quietly within reach of him, his features tures very pale, but nothing in his look to indicate that he understood what had been said, or that he even took any interest in what was going on around him. Isaline too was apparently even more unconscious, for she had taken advantage of the opportunity to seat herself on the ground and bury her face in her hands, and now sat there as motionless as a statue. 
               One of the Indians handed Blodget a stick with a white cloth affixed to it, and, waving it over his head, he at once set forward down the little knoll and through the cornfield. Some three or four savages accompanied him a short distance, and then took care to screen their persons as well as they could, evidently not feeling very sure that the sacred emblem would protect them from the bullets of their foes. 
               For a minute or two Hampton paced up and down in an impatient, angry mood; and then, as if he wished to find some one to vent his ill-humor upon, he turned to his hated rival and addressed him in a sneering tone. 
               "How do you like the present situation of things?" he said. 
               Henry looked at him, as if to be certain he was expected to reply to the question, and then answered, in a mild, firm tone: 
               "Not as well as you do probably." 
               "No doubt you will like matters less one of these fine days! It was much more pleasant for you to insult me on the boat, while surrounded by your bullying friends, eh?" 
               "I did not insult you," returned Henry, in the same quiet tone; "but having myself been insulted by you, I challenged you to put your life against mine in a fair and honorable combat." 
               "You lie!" cried Hampton; "no fair and honorable combat was intended! but only a murderous arrangement for the sacrifice of myself!" 
               "The plan was not mine," rejoined Henry, "and in the whole matter I was governed by others. So far as I was concerned, I was willing to have met you in any manner satisfactory to yourself. I acted in the affair in a way that my conscience still approves, and even spared you after you treacherously fired at me!" 
               "Who treacherously fired at you?" demanded Hampton, fiercely. 
               "You did!" replied Henry, fixing his clear blue eye steadily upon him. 
               "You lie!" again cried Hampton, white with rage, and accompanying the words with a brutal blow in the face of Henry, that drew blood and staggered him back to where Isaline was seated, who instantly started to her feet, with a wild scream, and threw her arms around his neck, as if she would protect him with her life. 
               "Good!" exclaimed Methoto, with a fiendish laugh; "him big t'ief-steal gun!" 
               "Come, none of this - nonsense!" cried Hampton ton, striding up to Isaline and roughly seizing her by the arm. "It seems you can make your lungs do duty fast enough whenever this scoundrel is molested, though you want for words when a gentleman addresses you!" 
               "You are a cowardly villain!" cried Isaline, instantly facing round to Hampton with the fury of a tigress; "for none but a cowardly villain would strike a bound prisoner!" 
               "And you are his sweet defender, it seems!" sneered Hampton. "But, come! you must go with me, and leave him to the tender mercies of Methoto, who has an account to settle with him!" 
               "I will not leave him, unless taken away by force!" said Isaline, resolutely. 
               "Then I shall be compelled to use force," returned Hampton, again taking hold of her arm, "for go with me you must!" 
               "No!" cried Isaline; "sooner with a savage! sooner with Methoto here, who is not half the villain you are!" She jerked her arm away from him as she spoke, and, running up to Methoto, caught hold of him, saying: "Protect me from that bad man! I do not like him-I would rather go with you!" 
               Methoto looked at her with an air of surprise and a gleam of satisfaction. 
               "Squaw girl come go Methoto?" he asked. 
               "Yes, yes-with you, with anybody, rather than with him!" 
               "What - foolery is this?" cried Hampton, springing forward and seizing her roughly, to drag her away by force. 
               Isaline screamed and clung to Methoto. 
               "Do not let me go with him!" she cried; "I will go with you!" 
               "Stop!" said Methoto to Hampton; "squaw girl no go you-go me!" 
               "She will do nothing of the kind!" rejoined Hampton, now furious with rage: "she is my prisoner, and, by -, I'll have her, dead or alive!" 
               He was struggling to drag her away from the white Indian, and she clinging to the latter, when suddenly Methoto raised his first and knocked the villain down. 
               Hampton jumped up, almost livid with rage, and attempted to bring his rifle to bear upon the other; but quick as lightning Methoto struck the piece with his own and sent it flying, and then with his fist again knocked Hampton down. 
               Some three or four of the nearest savages now appeared upon the scene, put a peremptory stop to the fight, and asked Methoto the cause of the quarrel. The latter gave such explanation as suited him; and not being able to understand or speak their language, Hampton could neither know that the statement was correct nor say a word in his own favor. In all probability Methoto made it appear that he himself was in the right and the other in the wrong, for the Indians nodded approval to him, frowned at Hampton, and informed the latter, by unmistakable signs, that he must keep quiet and let Methoto and the girl alone, or they would interfere and bind his hands. 
               The foiled villain, with his face all bloody and swollen, fairly gnashed his teeth in impotent rage, and muttered to himself, with a wicked oath: 
               "I'll bide my time, and send him to the devil before long, by -!" 
               Isaline still kept her place near Methoto; but she now flushed and paled alternately, as if laboring under some intense excitement, and trembled like an aspen. 
               "This is all your devilish work!" foamed Hampton, with a look that almost made her blood curdle; "and the time will come when you will have to answer for it! If you will not accept my love, by -! I'll make you feel my hate; and as I find I can reach you best through that cursed lover of yours, I'll give you both a little foretaste of the future now!" 
               He wheeled around to seek Henry-to perform what wicked and cruel act we will not pretend to say-but the next moment he fairly howled with disappointed rage. 
               Henry Colburn was gone. Taking advantage of the quarrel between the two villains left to guard him, he had darted off through the wood, and by this time was far enough away to render pursuit uncertain if not useless. Only Isaline had seen him start-he had nodded an adieu to her-and this was the cause of those fearful emotions which had made her frame shake and quiver and sent the blood in dizzying waves alternately to her head and heart. 
               "Fool!" cried Hampton, turning fiercely toward Methoto; "don't you see your prisoner is gone?" 
               The savages, who were slowly moving away, seemed to comprehend what had occurred; and two of them, with peculiar yells, intended perhaps to convey the information to all within hearing and put them on the watch, at once darted into the wood and disappeared; but Methoto took the matter very coolly, and made no attempt to follow. 
               "Why don't you go and hunt your prisoner?" cried Hampton, almost beside himself with rage at the turn matters had taken. 
               "Oogh!" grunted the other; "me stay white squaw; you go catch." 
               As no language could do justice to the almost bursting rage of the renegade, not even a volley of the most profane oaths, he turned away in silence and leaned against a tree, his black heart a perfect seething, burning hell. 
               Meantime the worthy bearer of the flag was approaching the station, and the firing, yelling and shouting had ceased on both sides. The whites were waiting to hear what proposition was now to be made, and the Indians were anxious to know how their offer, through one who could perfectly speak the English tongue, would be received. 
               There were some serious points for the besieged to consider. The day was drawing to a close, the sun being not more than half-an-hour above the horizon; their own expected reinforcements had not arrived; the strength of their enemies had probably been increased, they knew not how much; night would soon settle over the scene, and, under the cover of darkness, the savages might press up close, with little risk, and perhaps succeed in firing the buildings; and all these things, taken together, had a somewhat depressing effect; though we must do them the justice to add, that the thought of surrender, under any circumstances, was never for a moment entertained. 
               It was easily seen from the fort that Blodget was a white man, and an answering flag was waved to him from one of the loop-holes. He went forward alone, with apparent confidence, and had just reached the point where he intended to stop and deliver his message, when almost in an instant the whole aspect of affairs was changed. 
               A single alarm halloo in the distance was instantly repeated in twenty quarters; and then, mingling with these sounds, came the wild, fierce shouts of white men, and the sharp crack of rifles. Blodget turned and fled in dismay; and the Indians flew back into the wood, and communicated with each other by their signal yells. 
               A couple of savages now rushed toward Isaline, tomahawk in hand, with the apparent design of killing and scalping her. She comprehended their purpose pose uttered a wild scream, and sprung behind Methoto, who instantly interfered to save her. He said something to them, speaking quickly and gruffly, and they turned and darted away. 
               "Come!" said the white savage to her, grasping her arm; "us run! Indian mad heap! Catch squaw-him kill-him scalp!" 
               He hurried her back into the wood, and Hampton followed, probably not wishing to lose sight of her. 
               They descended into a little hollow, pushed into a dense thicket, and stopped. 
               Here they heard the shouts of the whites, the yells of the Indians, and the sharp rattle of fire-arms on both sides. 
               Isaline felt faint. The fatigues and excitements of the day, united with the most thrilling and conflicting emotions within the last few minutes, were beginning to overpower her. And still there were hope and fear, and a vague, terrible uncertainty for her. What would be the end for her, let who would triumph? She quietly sunk down on the ground, and buried her face in her hands. 
               The sounds of conflict continued-some of them near and some quite distant-showing that there was either more than one assailing party, or else that the force of the whites was large enough to do battle over a long reach of ground. 
               As he listened, Methoto began to grow restless. He snuffed the air like a battle horse, grasped his rifle firmly, fumbled with the handle of his tomahawk, and glanced at Isaline and Hampton in a peculiar way. 
               "White brave go fight?" he asked. 
               "No!" emphatically answered Hampton, in a sharp, snappish tone. 
               "Tie squaw!" said the other, evidently meaning that Isaline could be secured in this way during their absence. 
               To this Hampton made no reply. With his now swollen face and nearly closed eye, to keep fresh in his recollection the manner in which his rights had been trampled on and his fair prisoner wrested from him, he was in no mood to talk pleasantly with Methoto, but rather in the vein to take his life, restrained only by prudence and policy. 
               For a few moments Methoto seemed to debate with himself on the propriety of leaving the girl alone with Hampton, doubtless fearing the latter might run off with her; but the exciting sounds of the conflict, with one or two triumphant yells in the vicinity, decided him, and, with a regular Indian whoop, he bounded away to join in the strife. 
               The moment he found himself alone with Isaline, Hampton seized her roughly by the shoulder, and, with no gentle shake, and in a very gruff tone, said: 
               "Come! get up and come with me!" 
               Isaline suddenly lifted her white, marble face, and, seeing no other person present, said quietly, but firmly: 
                
               "I will not go one step with such a villain as you, unless compelled by force!" 
               "By -, Miss Holcombe," cried Hampton, fairly trembling with passion, "don't raise the devil in me any more to-day, or I shall do something wicked!" 
               "What?" said Isaline, with a proud look of scorn. "Strike an unarmed, defenceless woman, perhaps! Why, that would indeed be in perfect keeping with your other brutal and cowardly acts! Thank God," she added, with a triumphant flush, "Henry Colburn has escaped from your vile hands! and whatever may be my fate, I know there will be an avenger on my path!" 
               "Fool!" exclaimed Hampton; "don't you know he has been retaken?" 
               "Oh, my God!" cried Isaline, clasping her hands over her heart and feeling her brain reel. A moment's reflection, however, convinced her the statement was not true-for what could Hampton know more than herself? he not having been away from her side-and she quickly and spiritedly added: "The assertion is as false as the tongue that utters it! He is now among his friends, and doubtless already fighting in the cause of right, which will certainly triumph!" 
               "Well, up with you and come with me!" said the other, fiercely. 
               "I will not!" returned Isaline, firmly: "I will not stir from here, alone in your company, except compelled by brute force!" 
                
               "You prefer the arms of the white Indian to mine, eh?" 
               "Ay, or the blackest savage of them all!" rejoined Isaline, with fiery energy. "I have no language that can begin to express my utter loathing and detestation of you! of you, Charles Hampton, whom I once respected and esteemed! Nothing ever lived on the face of the earth that I would not prefer to you!" 
               "And all because, through my idolatrous worship, I forced myself in between you and your last lover?" he said. 
               "All because of your own utter baseness, in descending from the high position you occupied among refined and intellectual gentlemen, to consort with the barbarians of the wilderness, turn against your own race and color, and do the meanest acts of the meanest coward of them all!" returned Isaline, with sparkling eyes, and a radiant flush of righteous indignation. "For the savages there may be some excuse, in the barbarous manner of their bringing up; but for you there is none whatever!" 
               "By -! you are a good sharp hater!" returned the black-hearted villain, suddenly assuming a tone and manner of the most provoking coolness; "and you really look so beautiful in your anger, my dear girl, that I can hardly find the heart to wish you otherwise!" 
               Isaline was prepared for a fierce rejoinder, but not for this; there was something in it so utterly devilish ish, that her frank, open nature could not grasp it-could not comprehend it; and reflecting that she was alone, unprotected, and in such a villain's power, she burst into tears, and once more became the weak, trembling girl. 
               It was Charles Hampton's present design to get Isaline removed to some point where Methoto would not be likely to find her till the Indians should be again collected together; and then, by getting Blodget to explain the whole matter to the savages, he doubted not she would be awarded to him as his private property-or, what was about the same thing, his wife-and then he would be left to manage her to suit himself; but while he now stood looking at her, considering how best to accomplish his purpose, since she had refused to accompany him except by force, Methoto and an Indian suddenly burst into the thicket. Catching hold of Isaline, one on either side, they jerked her upon her feet, and darted away through the wood, fairly dragging her along between them. Alarmed at the probable danger behind, Hampton also fled with them, and they were soon joined by some half-a-dozen savages, all apparently flying for their lives. 
               The truth was, the assailing party of whites out-numbered the Indians as two to one; and having just discovered this, and that they were being outflanked and surrounded, while a strong sally was being made from the fort, their leaders suddenly sounded the signal yells of retreat, and they were now flying in dismay. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE PHANTOM IN CAMP. 
               OF that wild flight, when she was literally dragged away by Methoto and an Indian, Isaline Holcombe could never tell anything very distinctly. That she all the time had her senses, she was not certain, for her remembrance had the indistinctness of a wild, horrible dream, with one change following another with a suddenness not real. At first she was being impelled through the forest while the sun was yet shining; and her next recollection was of being dragged along in thick darkness, with pains in her limbs and feet, bushes brushing across her face, and a feeling of faintness and weariness impossible to describe. At this time too she heard, or fancied she heard, a voice not unlike Hampton's complaining that somebody was killing her; while she felt herself that death was not far off, and that she would gladly welcome it as the end of pain and trouble and the certainty of rest. Next it was night still, and she was reclining in some gloomy place, supported by human arms, with the shadowy outline of a log-cabin looming up before her in the dim starlight, and shadowy figures flitting to and fro, and sounds like heavy blows coming dully to her senses, and then wild shrieks of distress, and horrid yells of savage men, and then the dim light and heavy smoke of a newly kindled fire, and lastly the glare and roar of angry, devouring flames, with furious demons dancing before them. After this there was the sensation of being borne swiftly away on the back of some beast, with human arms still supporting her; and this was continued, with a dull, gloomy monotony, till she seemed to fall asleep. 
               This was all that Isaline could ever remember of that eventful night. When she next opened her eyes, with the full consciousness of an earthly existence, she looked around upon a scene that made her very soul shudder. It was an Indian camp among the hills at the dawn of day. Her own position was under a large, spreading beech, wrapped up in a blanket, with some moss for a pillow; and stretched around, on every side of her, were at least thirty savage warriors, and among them Hampton, Blodget and Methoto. There were also a large number of horses, all tethered and quietly feeding in a little valley below, through which danced the bright, sparkling waters of a mountain stream. Dangling from some limbs and bushes, here and there, were a dozen little hoops, over which were stretched skins with human hair attached; and Isaline sickened as the horrid truth flashed upon her, that these were human scalps, torn reeking from the heads of dead and dying victims, and hung up there to dry, that they might evermore be preserved as barbarous trophies. Large pieces of meat were also hung up in different places; and near the centre of the camp was a pile of plunder, consisting principally of clothing of both sexes, farming implements, and household utensils. All this seemed to prove, that, if the Indians had been defeated at Higgins' Block-house, they had managed to collect together, the majority of them at least, and take ample revenge, during their night retreat, upon lonely, isolated settlers. The night, as we have shown, had been to Isaline as a wild, horrible dream; but she knew now that what she had seen were the indistinct glimmerings of a dreadful reality, and she thanked God that she had been spared the mental anguish of seeing and knowing more. 
               Every one in the camp, except Isaline herself, appeared now to be asleep-as if, feeling perfectly secure, after the fatigues of the day and night, each had thrown himself down to recruit, with peaceful rest, his over-wearied frame-and she, poor girl, for a moment thought of the possibility of stealing away and making her escape. But then she knew not where she was, nor where to go; and the probabilities were so strong that some one would shortly awake and miss her, should she make the attempt, and then alarm the camp and have the whole party on her trail, that she at once abandoned the idea as hopeless of success. 
               Suddenly she had her whole attention arrested and fixed by something she did not comprehend. It was the cautious and noiseless movement of some object, resembling a human being, which was descending a tree just beyond the circle of sleeping warriors. It was not yet light-only the dull gray of breaking day-and at that distance she could not see distinctly enough to be certain that the object in question was not a mere animal. It might in fact be a bear, for it did not look unlike one. Isaline remained perfectly still, with her eyes fixed intently upon it. It descended to the ground, and yet remained upright like a man. Then it began to move stealthily forward, into the very circle of the sleeping warriors, toward herself. As it drew nearer, she fancied it looked more and more like a human being-but like a naked human being-all covered with short, brownish hair, face as well as body. Could it be the dread Phantom of the Forest? the fearful Unknown that had made so many brave men tremble? Isaline felt her very blood run cold and her hair rise. Nearer and still nearer it came, till only a few paces divided the mysterious object from herself, and still she remained silent and motionless, holding her breath, and glaring at it as if it were an apparition from the unseen world. At length it stopped, exactly where a large piece of meat hung swinging below the limb of a tree. The next moment the hairy hands grasped the object of its quest and disengaged it, and the Unknown began to glide away like a shadow, but with a gradually accelerated motion. Only a few seconds more it remained in sight, and then to the strained eyes of Isaline it seemed to vanish into air. 
               A minute or two after, the forest resounded with that peculiarly wild, prolonged, quavering shriek that had so often blanched the faces of the superstitious borderers. 
               Almost like one man the startled savages came bounding to their feet, grasping their muskets and tomahawks, and looking wildly and fiercely around them. Of course they saw nothing to alarm them; and then some of them seemed to think the fearful sound had been made by Isaline, and hurriedly approached her, with horrid scowls and threatening gestures. She shuddered and commended her soul to God, fearing her last moment had come. The danger was certainly imminent, and perhaps the grim King of Terrors had never drawn nearer to her than then-for a dozen angry, bloodthirsty savages were each eager to hang her gory scalp to his own girdle. The white men alone saved her. Hampton, Blodget and Methoto, each perceiving the murderous design, sprung forward together and interposed their bodies between her and the infuriated Indians. Then Blodget spoke to them in a rapid, vehement manner, and Methoto addressed them the moment he ceased. The words of both united had the desired effect, and the Indians finally turned away in silence, as if ashamed of their murderous demonstration. 
               "How do you find yourself this morning, Isaline line?" asked Hampton, in a kindly tone, as soon as he could speak to her alone. 
               As we have said before, he was naturally a handsome man; but at this time his beauty was greatly marred by the rough treatment he had received from the hands of Methoto on the previous day. One eye was nearly closed, the other was bloodshot, one cheek was swollen and black and blue, and his general appearance was distressed and haggard-enough so to excite something like compassion in the breast of the fair girl he had so deeply wronged. Isaline looked at him steadily for a moment, and answered, in a low, melancholy tone: 
               "I am none the better for being here, Charles Hampton, and I am disposed to wish I were already numbered with the victims who have gone before me!" 
               "Oh, say not so, Miss Isaline!" he returned, with an appearance of considerable feeling, whether feigned or real. "You were roughly used last night, I admit; but though it was not my fault then, I shall do what I can to guard you against it in the future." 
               "Charles Hampton," she solemnly rejoined, "I am forced to believe I owe the worst of my misfortunes to you! I have seen and heard enough to convince me that you are one of the prime movers in these wicked doings which have robbed me of all that makes life desirable!" 
               "I have done wrong, I confess," he replied, with a penitential air; "but it was because of my mad passion-my wild, idolatrous love for one whom I saw and felt to be passing beyond my reach! Oh, Isaline! perhaps you may faintly comprehend me, when I tell you that Heaven for me could have no joys if you were absent, and hell itself no terrors if you were present! Pity me, Isaline Holcombe-pity me-you who should pity me-for I am suffering for my sins even now!" 
               "Say rather your crimes, Charles Hampton! for innocent blood has gone up to the Throne of Jehovah to appear in judgment against you! Pity you I may; but do not ask me to forgive! God alone can do that! Look at yonder bloody trophies, torn from the heads of pleading, shrieking victims, young and old, who never wronged you even in thought!" 
               "It was a horrid night's work!" returned Hampton, with a shudder; "but I had no hand in it." 
               "Delude not yourself with that false idea!" was the stern rejoinder of Isaline. "Your hand was in it-ay, and your soul was in it-when you united with and became one of the murderous band that did it!" 
               "Enough of this!" said Hampton, rather coldly; "one does not care to be entertained with reproaches, or words abusive of one's self! The past is past. Can I do anything for you now?" 
               "I do not know that you can," answered Isaline. "I feel now as if the time will not be long that I shall need human aid." 
                
               "Nay, you must cheer up and hope for the best! With the exception of being dragged through the wood, by Methoto and an Indian in their hurried flight, you have not been so badly used; and even that might have been avoided, had you gone with me at my request. And I must add this in my own favor, that, notwithstanding you treated me with so much scorn and contempt, I did all I could for you, and plead with Methoto to give you into my charge. When the Indians had collected together before the first log cabin they attacked, and Methoto rushed in to the work of slaughter, you know that I turned from the wild scene of butchery and sought only to protect you; and that when the horses were captured, I begged one for myself and placed you on it, and afterward guarded you hither, and made everything as comfortable for you as I possibly could." 
               "It was you then that did all this for me?" said Isaline, apparently somewhat moved by the kindness shown and the absence of cruel indifference which might have been displayed. 
               "Did you not know it was me?" asked Hampton. 
               "No, I knew little of what took place last night. I have a few horrid recollections, but they seem rather to belong to some horrid dream than a reality. I have a painful impression of seeing a cabin on fire, and hearing wild shrieks and yells and the reports of fire-arms, and then of being borne rapidly away. That is all I remember till I awoke this morning and found myself here." 
               "And it was you that gave that fearful shriek?" 
               "No! I think it was that strange Creature that followed you in the forest. I saw it come down from a tree yonder, and glide into the camp like a spectre, and then glide off and vanish. It had the form of a human being, but seemed to be all covered with short, brownish hair." 
               "It must be some wild animal!" said Hampton, glancing sharply around him; "though I am told that trouble always comes to those who see and hear it!" 
               "Do the Indians know anything about it?" inquired Isaline. 
               "I will ask Blodget," answered Hampton; and he immediately turned away to seek that individual. 
               He was absent for several minutes; and Isaline first saw him talking with Blodget and Methoto, and then observed the Indians gradually collect around the three and seem to become much interested in what was being said. 
               Meantime Isaline got upon her feet, and found them and her ankles so swollen, scratched and bruised, from being dragged through the wood, over sticks, logs and stones, that it was painful for her to stand and difficult for her to walk. 
               When Hampton returned to her, he reported that the Indians had only heard the strange sound since crossing the Ohio; but being naturally superstitious, they had, after his story had been repeated to them, announced it as their belief that it was an evil spirit, which boded no good to them, and that as soon as they should arrive at home they would consult their Prophet or Great Medicine concerning it. 
               "It may bode evil to them and others," said Isaline, gloomily, "but I no longer fear that anything can change my condition for the worse." 
               "On the contrary, your seeing it may be all the better for you!" returned Hampton. 
               "How so?" 
               "The Indians say, that as you saw it approach you, without its doing you any harm, you must in some degree be under its protection, and that trouble may come upon whoever shall attempt to injure you." 
               "Then God bless the Unknown, whatever it is!" said the poor, forlorn captive, with deep fervor. "But tell me," she pursued, "in what part of the country we are now and what the Indians are going to do next?" 
               "I cannot answer either question, Isaline," replied Hampton, "because I do not know." 
               "Are we far from the station we left last night?" 
               "Yes, a good many miles, for we did not reach here till midnight or past, though we rode a good part of the time and rode fast." 
               "And how many cabins were plundered and burnt on the way?" 
               "Three." 
                
               "And those scalps were taken last night?" 
               "I suppose so; for I know some of the settlers were killed, and I saw the Indians stretching their bloody trophies on hoops after we had reached this place." 
               "And they could find time for that? the wretches!" 
               "It was only the work of some two or three minutes, each warrior doing his own. By the time I had fixed you in a comfortable position and tethered my horse, the slowest one was ready for his blanket, and most of the others appeared to be asleep even then." 
               "And that meat I see hanging in different places?" 
               "At one of the farm-houses they killed an ox and a cow, and brought so much away with them. And that reminds me, my dear Isaline, that you have not tasted a morsel since yesterday morning, and must in consequence be very weak and faint!" 
               "I have no desire for food," sighed the other, "and do not care if I never have again." 
               "Just wait and see how I will tempt you!" said Hampton, as he hurried away to prepare a breakfast for her. 
               The savages had by this time kindled a fire, and most of them were busy in cutting off slices of meat and toasting them. In plundering the farm-houses, too, they had found a few corn cakes and small loaves of bread, and these they now equally divided among all, giving Hampton two shares, one for himself and the other for the fair prisoner. He soon returned to Isaline, with a well toasted slice of meat laid upon a piece of bread, and handed it to her, with the remark: 
               "Would to Heaven I had something better to offer you; but in this case, as in many others, my dear Isaline, you must take the will for the deed!" 
               "I do not care to eat," returned the other. 
               "Oh, you must, or you will faint by the way!" 
               "Let me die by the way then!" 
               "Come, come-this is folly! Cheer up! How do you know that the great future has not many bright things in store for you?" 
               She seemed to reflect for a moment, and then said, in a tone of deep solemnity: 
               "The future belongs to God, not man, it is true, and so I will eat!" 
               She took the food in her hand, and was in the act of carrying a portion of it to her lips, when the recollection of her last meal suddenly flashed upon her. It was of a similar kind, similarly prepared, and urged upon her by words scarcely more tenderly spoken; but, oh! by how different a being! Brave, noble, generous, self-sacrificing Henry Colburn! where was he now? and what comparative fiend of darkness now stood in his place! Her heart rose to her throat, her hands trembled, her frame shook, and she burst into tears. 
               "Well, well-what now? what now?" somewhat impatiently demanded Hampton. 
               "Do not question, but leave me for a while!" sobbed Isaline. "I shall be calmer soon, and will then eat what you have prepared for me, with thanks for all the kindness you have shown!" 
               There was no deceit in this. She did thank him for his kindness, even while she remembered his cruelty against him. The words did deceive Hampton nevertheless-or rather, perhaps, he drew from them an inference never intended, and deceived himself. 
               "All right!" he thought, as he turned back to the fire to prepare his own morning meal; "she is coming round as well as heart can wish. I have been too harsh with her at times perhaps, and a little kindness now is doing wonders. If I can only manage to get her safely into the Indian country, the rest will be easy. Of course she will then consent to marry me, to save herself from something worse; and then I will take her to Canada, and have the ceremony legally and publicly performed. And then" (rubbing his hands in pleased anticipation,) "ha! ha! and then! Thanks to my being a lawyer's clerk, I know exactly what she is going to inherit from her mother's half uncle, Sir Joshua Speed; and I would venture a heavy wager I am the only man in this - country who does know anything about it; for old Sir Joshua hates America as the devil does holy water-especially since the late war has terminated in Yankee Independence-and, being an eccentric old bachelor, he has just willed this girl his fortune, not from any love of her or any of her family ily, but merely to spite his English cousins, who are looking hopefully forward to his death! Thanks, too, to the money I wormed out of that burglar before he had his trial and sentence, on pretence that my master would get him clear, I have had plenty of capital to work with-especially as I made the Virginia fools believe me to be the third son of an English lord, and so got the entre of their best society, (Heaven save the mark!) and good keeping at little cost. Being a dead shot, with either rifle or pistol, of course they knew me to be a gentleman-of course they did. I played a bold game; but then, 'Nothing venture, nothing have!' Everything was going well, till that -, long haired, romantic, scouting fool of an artist crossed my path, and then matters suddenly changed for the worse. Well, now again they have changed for the better, thanks to the desperate course I have taken! and if I play my cards well, I shall win yet. I should have got that fellow Colburn out of the way without making my hate too manifest; that was bad policy; and abusing him in the presence of the girl was still worse-for it is clear she loves him madly; but then it is not so easy to keep one's passions under on all occasions. His escape was most unfortunate, for of course he will urge a fierce pursuit; and if the Indians do not now make a hurried flight out of the country, we may get into trouble yet. That savage butchery was horrible to one not used to it! But then, after all, what of it? Everybody has to die some time; and, it being a mere question of time, a few years, more or less, can make no great difference to people who at the best have a hard struggle to live. I wonder if I am to have any more trouble from that white Indian? Should he not interfere again, the past may go; but let him beware how he again attempts to come between me and my prize!" 
               With these and many other dark thoughts flitting through his active brain, the scheming villain proceeded to toast his meat and eat his breakfast with a heartiness that showed his appetite had not yet become impaired by what had occurred. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE SAVAGE DECREE. 
               BY the time that Charles Hampton (alias Stephen Rogers, which was his real name, though for convenience we shall still continue to call him by his assumed one) had finished his morning repast, the sun was gilding the tops of the hills, and the Indians were collected together and holding a consultation concerning their next movements. 
               After the brief skirmish in the vicinity of Higgins' Block-house, as rather mentioned than described in a preceding chapter, it will be remembered the Indians made a precipitate retreat. In their flight they had borne off a few dead and several wounded warriors. The Kentuckians had hotly pursued them, but only till dark, which had soon followed. Then, by signals understood among themselves-such as the hooting of owls, the howling of wolves, the bleating of fawns and the gobbling of turkeys-the savages had shortly managed to reunite their whole force. Then they had held a council of war, which had resulted in a division of opinion and a division of number. The majority had been for a bold marauding expedition through the country, and the minority for getting across the Ohio in the shortest possible time. Both parties had been permitted to have their way-the dead having been buried and the wounded consigned to the smaller number. If Hampton had then been consulted and allowed to do as he pleased, he would have gone with the latter and taken Isaline with him; but as Blodget and Methoto had decided to go with the main body, and as the white savage still had the fair captive in his charge and would not lose sight of her, the scheming villain had of course to do the same. Being ambitious of distinguishing himself as an Indian warrior, Methoto had taken an active part in the attack upon the first cabin they had come to, leaving poor Isaline to the care of Hampton, who had guarded her to the end of the day's journey-nor had the white savage since said or done anything to show that he intended to reassert his claim to her possession. 
               Thus matters stood as the Indians now held their council, in which both Blodget and Methoto took part. As it was known to the savages that the whole country was up in arms behind them, they decided to make a long, swift march to the westward, and avoid all stations, settlements and single dwellings, till the cover of another night should enable them to continue their horrid work of murder and pillage with little risk. They had managed to steal some twenty horses, which, not being enough for all, would require them to take turns in riding. Among the savages themselves this matter was easily arranged; but when Hampton brought up the horse he had ridden the preceding night, and was about to have Isaline mount in front of him, he suddenly met with opposition that he was not expecting. 
               Methoto stalked proudly up, with two of the partially dried scalps attached to his girdle, and, laying his hand upon the bridle rein, exclaimed: 
               "Me brave-last night much fight-two scalp got-then walk heap. You no brave-no fight-no scalp got-ride heap 'long white squaw. Now me ride 'long white squaw-you walk heap." 
               For nearly a minute Hampton made no reply; but, with his features flushing and paling alternately, and his fingers working convulsively, he sat, with his black, fiery eyes fixed, with the fierceness of a tiger, upon the dull, gray orbs of Methoto, who never quailed or changed expression, but remained entirely passive, with a stolid look of dogged determination, as if patiently waiting for the other to speak or dismount. 
               At length the scheming villain turned to the decoy, who was standing near, and, in as quiet and steady a tone as he could command, fairly choking down his rage, said: 
               "Blodget, what is to be done in this case?" 
               "Well," answered Blodget, with an expression that clearly showed he secretly enjoyed the annoyance of the other, "I don't know anything better than for you to do what he tells you." 
               "Have I not a right to this horse?" 
               "Not any more'n you have to the others: they all belong to the party in common, and will till the Indians make a division." 
               "But the girl is mine certainly!" 
               "I don't know about that." 
               "Was it not the agreement before we started that she was to belong to me exclusively?" 
               "Circumstances alter cases, you know!" returned Blodget, in a tone of provoking coolness. "She was yours at one time; but then, I'm told, she refused to go with you, and sort of gave herself away to Methoto." 
               "Who told you so?" 
               Blodget nodded toward the white Indian. 
               "Oogh!" grunted Methoto, tapping his breast; "her say come me-me take um!" 
               "But then you gave her up again," said Hampton, his eyes gleaming like a wild beast's and his lips fairly quivering with suppressed passion, "and she rode with me and was under my care nearly all last night." 
               "Oogh!" grunted Methoto again; "you no fight-no get scalp-you ride 'long white squaw-me walk big heap. Now me ride 'long squaw-you walk big heap." 
               "That seems to be fair," grinned Blodget. 
               "Suppose we refer the matter to the Indians!" said Hampton, quietly, seeing that no show of passion or resistance would avail him under the circumstances. "I will ask you, as a gentleman and fellow countryman, friend Blodget, to state the matter fairly and impartially to these brave warriors, and assure them that the girl now prefers to go with me; and that, as soon as we get to their towns, I intend to make them all handsome presents, in return for their kindness to us. Even you, too, Methoto!" he added, in a conciliating tone, turning to the sullen, dogged fellow, who still kept his grasp on the rein, and his cold gray eyes fixed immovably upon him; "you shall have a handsome present too!" 
               "Me no want present-want squaw-want hoss!" sullenly growled Methoto. 
               "You want the devil's brimstone, and I may put you in the way to get it, one of these days!" thought Hampton, though he did not venture to say so aloud. 
               "If I'm to tell the Indians the girl prefers to go with you, I've got to have it from her own lips first!" said Blodget. 
               "Speak then, Isaline," said Hampton, addressing the poor, half-distracted girl, "and say it is your wish to go with me." 
               Isaline, pale as a ghost, was standing against the old tree, with the untasted food still in her hand, trembling, weak in body and sick at heart. Thus appealed to, she roused herself, as if with a painful effort, and, glancing around, saw many eyes fixed upon her, Methoto's among the number. She would gladly have shrunk away, even out of existence, so that she might forever have been rid of her tormentors mentors; but as this could not be, she said, in a faint, despairing tone: 
               "Of the two, it is my wish to go with Mr. Hampton." 
               It was her wish to go with neither-for Hampton had proved himself to be a sort of refined, black-hearted villain, and Methoto was a coarse, brutal, unfeeling savage-but education, society and acquaintanceship, had brought the former nearer to an equality with her than the latter; and besides, she remembered that the treatment of the one had in the main been far more gentle and considerate than that of the other. 
               Little did she dream, however, of the manner in which her words would be received by the white Indian, or she would have permitted the matter to be settled by others, without herself expressing any choice-for scarcely had she spoken, when Methoto, with a fierce gleam of rage, strode up, and seizing her roughly by the arm, brutally jerked her forward a few feet, and said, in a gruff tone: 
               "No go him-go me-you mine!" 
               Isaline uttered a despairing cry of pain and fear. 
               "Kill me! kill me at once, and put me out of my misery!" she exclaimed. 
               At that moment the forest again resounded with the same wild, prolonged, quavering shriek; and Methoto, turning somewhat pale, suddenly relinquished his hold of Isaline and stepped back two or three paces, and the superstitious Indians glanced quickly around them, with looks expressive of awe. 
               What might have ensued, but for this mysterious interruption-what desperate thing Charles Hampton might have attempted-we will not pretend to say; but certain it is, that when Methoto laid violent hands upon Isaline, he turned deadly pale, quivered all over with passion, impulsively drew his knife, leaped from his horse, and now stood as one suddenly arrested by some startling occurrence. 
               For the space of half a minute there was a deep and almost breathless silence; and then Hampton said, in a clear, ringing tone, addressing Blodget: 
               "I claim that girl as mine, according to the compact between us; and you see the devil so wills it!" 
               "It looks that way, by -!" returned the other, with a supporting oath, and a shuddering shrug of the shoulders. "There's something about-the Lord knows what-that I don't care to quarrel with, and I'd advise Methoto not to do it either!" 
               "Let the Indians decide the point!" said Hampton; "you have heard the girl express her own wish in the matter." 
               Blodget now addressed a few words to the Indians; and Methoto, fixing his eyes on him, and folding his arms across his breast, listened in sullen, dogged silence. When the former had done, the latter quietly advanced, and made a brief speech and held up his two scalps. Then the warriors, after a brief consultation, gave their decision. It was that neither Hampton nor Methoto should have charge of Isaline for the present, but that she should be taken along as a general prisoner, and that whichever of the white men could show the most scalps by the time they were ready to cross the Ohio, should have sole right to her ever after. 
               "And this is the decision of the warriors, is it?" said Hampton, in reply to the announcement of Blodget, suppressing his anger as much as possible. 
               "Such is their decision, sir!" 
               "Very well then, as I have no choice in the matter, it is hardly worth while for me to waste any more words on the subject!" returned Hampton, turning coldly away. 
               "Serves you right," muttered Blodget to himself, offended at the manner of the other, "for wanting the best prize without doing anything for it! Well, as I've now got an equal chance with the pair of them, I'll just try what I can do to secure the girl, for she's a mighty pretty piece and will suit me exactly!" 
               Thus it will be seen that poor Isaline was prospectively decreed to the bloodiest wretch of them all-her possession to be the reward for excelling in murder and mutilation! 
               Having settled this matter, the Indians now hurried away from their present camp, one of the mounted savages taking poor Isaline up in front of him. They took a westward course through the wilderness, avoiding, according to previous arrangement ment, all settlements and settlers, continued their journey all day, crossed several creeks and small streams, and, just before sunset, reached a wild, gloomy place on the right bank of the Kentucky River, where they again encamped, feeling pretty sure they had now left their armed foes far behind them. Here they picketed their stolen horses, in a little valley where there was plenty of good grazing, and then kindled a fire and prepared their evening meal, which consisted principally of fresh meat. 
               In the course of the day Isaline had managed to eat what Hampton had given her in the morning, and she now took what the savages offered her and put it away against a time of need, having no further desire for food at the moment. She was dispirited and gloomy, for the present was full of misery and the future looked darker still. She had not exchanged a word with a single soul since morning, and it was some little relief when Hampton now came to her and kindly inquired about her health. 
               "Unfortunately I am living still!" was her melancholy reply; "though I am constantly praying for death!" 
               For a few moments Hampton stood and looked at her in such a position that the fire-light shone full upon his face, and Isaline observed that he was very pale and had a troubled expression. 
               "I did not have the pleasure of caring for you to-day!" he at length said, in a low, guarded tone. 
                
               "I suppose the Indians would not permit it!" she rejoined. 
               "All owing to that devil Methoto!" he answered, glancing furtively around, to be sure that neither of the white men were within hearing. "Ah, Isaline," he continued, in a reproachful tone, "it was a sad thing for both of us when you withdrew yourself from my protection and placed yourself in his hands!" 
               "You compelled me to it by your passionate violence!" she returned, with some spirit. "It was a wicked, cruel and cowardly act for you to strike a bound and helpless prisoner! and then, because I sympathized with him, who had been my kind protector and friend, to attempt to drag me away from him by brute force! Had a fiend been there, I would have sought refuge in his arms to escape from you!" 
               "I know I was in the wrong," he penitently answered, "but at the moment I was beside myself with rage. Will you not forgive me, Isaline?" 
               She did not answer till he repeated the question in a low, sad tone. 
               "If I can see any evidence in the future that you have really repented of all your wicked deeds, I will pray God to forgive you!" was her somewhat evasive reply. 
               "You shall see it, Isaline, if we both live and remain together! for I have repented, and shall atone for them by every means in my power! Do you know what the Indians decided on in the morning?" 
                
               "No, I did not understand what was said." 
               "You have been withdrawn from my protection, and are now held at the awful price of blood!" 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "They have decided that whichever of us three, (Blodget, Methoto or myself,) shall produce the most white scalps by the time they are ready to cross the Ohio, shall have you for his reward." 
               "Oh, merciful God! am I indeed to be bartered for blood?" cried Isaline, with a wild, startled look. 
               "Hist! not so loud, dear lady!" 
               "Rather than be the cause of such horrible work, I will destroy myself!" said Isaline, in a low, determined tone; "for far better that I should perish and be out of my misery, than that the innocent should be butchered on my account!" 
               "Far better than either that you should escape from these savages with me!" observed Hampton, in a low, hurried tone. 
               "Escape? how? is there any way?" said Isaline, quickly, catching her breath. 
               "Yes, yes, dear girl! keep up your spirits and hope! I have a plan-I will tell you more soon. There! hist! I see Blodget and Methoto sauntering this way; and I will retire, lest they become suspicious!" 
               It was known to some of the Indians, who had recently been in this region, that there was a small settlement, about three or four miles above where they now were, which was not very strongly fortified fied, if at all; and scattered around, through that section of the country, were several isolated farmhouses also; and it was their present design to attack these, not far from midnight, expecting an easy conquest and much plunder as their reward. Their horses they intended to leave where they were, that they might be in a proper condition for a long journey on the following day, and a few of their number were to remain and guard their camp. They soon began their preparations for this night expedition; and as all were eager to go, the guard to be left behind, five in number, was selected by lot. 
               It was perhaps a couple of hours after his first interview with Isaline that evening, that Hampton again approached her, in a careless, indifferent manner, as if with no design. She was reclining under a tree, a little apart from the others; and passing around behind it, he stopped, with his back toward her, as if looking off into the forest. 
               "I am now ready to speak with you again, my dear, sweet friend!" he said, in a low, guarded tone, barely audible to her listening ear; "and be very, very careful that no one hears your voice, or detects anything in your manner to excite suspicion that we are holding a secret conversation!" 
               "Go on!" replied Isaline, without changing her position, and keeping her eyes fixed upon the nearest group of Indians. 
               "Will you escape with me if I show you an opportunity?" was the question of the other. 
                
               "Whither will you take me?" 
               "Why ask? Will not anywhere be better than here?" 
               "It can hardly be worse!" returned Isaline. 
               "Then I pray you use no unnecessary words, for the present moments are important!" 
               "I will escape, if you will show me a way!" replied Isaline, feeling she had nothing to lose in the attempt. 
               "Listen then! The Indians, all except five, will soon set off on an expedition against some settlers above here, to re-enact if possible the horrid deeds of last night. I shall start with them, apparently as eager for the murderous work as any. I will watch my chance and slip off from them, and come back to within a hundred yards of you, in a line directly behind you as you now recline. There I will imitate the hooting of an owl. As soon as you hear the signal, therefore, you will know I am waiting for you and where. Then, if you can possibly steal off unperceived, do so; but if, after repeating the signal twice, with the lapse of half-an-hour between, you do not come to me, I shall endeavor to create a disturbance among the horses, in order to draw off the guard in that direction, which will surely give you a chance to escape. In any event you must take the same course, and be careful not to go too far; and if you do not readily find me, wait in some thicket till you again hear the signal. Is everything now understood?" 
                
               "As well perhaps as it can be!" answered Isaline. 
               "Then I will say no more for the present!" rejoined Hampton; and he quietly sauntered off, as if in a musing mood. 
               In the course of another hour the three white men, and all the Indians except five, struck off through the forest in single file. The guard that remained seemed to take but little notice of Isaline, and sat down together, around where the fire had been kindled-but which had long since burned itself out-and fell into familiar conversation, chatting and laughing and seeming in the best of spirits. 
               Nearly an hour had passed away in this manner, and Isaline was watching her foes as well as she could in the darkness, and tremblingly listening for the signal, when at last the sound came borne to her ears from the direction she expected it. It was either the real cry of the night-bird, or so good an imitation that the savages detected no difference, for they took no notice of it. It continued for some two or three minutes and then stopped; and Isaline now became greatly agitated, feeling as if life and liberty might depend upon the next few minutes; for if she could escape, even with the villain Hampton, she reasoned he would be compelled to take her among the whites, after having deserted the savages; and once again under the protection of the rough borderers, she might find the getting home to her father a comparatively easy matter. 
               Everything now seemed favorable-for the Indian guard was several yards in front of her, engaged with matters of their own-and as all around was dark, and she could slip off unperceived, she might not be missed for a considerable time. So she said a short prayer, asking guidance and protection of her Heavenly Father; and then arose, turned her sad, sweet face toward the point from which the signal had come, and glided away through the wood as noiselessly as a spirit. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               THE DOUBLE ESCAPE. 
               WHILE Isaline Holcombe was yet carefully feeling her way through the thick undergrowth, a short distance from the spot where the Indian guard supposed her to be still, she was both startled and reassured at hearing her name pronounced in a whisper. 
               "I am here," she answered, in the same cautious manner, at once stopping and holding her breath. 
               "Come forward, dear lady, and be saved!" were the next words that fell upon her ear. 
               Isaline again moved cautiously forward a few steps, found herself passing out of a clump of bushes into a more open wood, and dimly perceived a shadowy figure gliding up to her. 
               "Thank fortune, Isaline," again whispered Hampton, "we are now beyond the reach of our foes-for from this time forth I shall count all your enemies mine!" 
               "But we have not yet escaped from the dreadful savages!" returned Isaline, with a shudder. "Even now the Indian guard is within hearing, and may discover my flight and pursue me at any moment." 
               "We have the night to conceal us." 
                
               "But the day will soon follow, and my past experience is a proof that it is next to impossible to escape with such bloodhounds on my trail!" 
               "We must certainly make the best use of our time!" returned Hampton. "Here, give me your hand! There! now follow me, and be careful to make no sound to betray us!" 
               For some minutes they moved forward together in silence; and then Isaline found herself in a wild, gloomy locality, with a few trees and bushes here and there, and gigantic rocks lifting their craggy heads far above her in the solemn night, and the plash of water sounding dismally in her ear. 
               "Do you know in what part of the country we are?" she whispered. 
               "I have understood from Blodget, that this is the Kentucky river," answered Hampton, "and that is really all I do know about it, being a stranger in this region as well as yourself." 
               "And whither do you propose to conduct me?" 
               "Just at present my sole object is to escape from the Indians, and then I will let circumstances determine my course." 
               "But you will take me home to my father?" anxiously inquired Isaline; "or at least put me in a way to get there?" 
               "If I possibly can!" answered Hampton. 
               He should have said, if he could not possibly avoid it, for the other was the farthest result from his intentions. He had persuaded her to leave the savages and escape with him, from a purely selfish motive-for matters had taken such a turn, that he knew he would be compelled to see her given over to another if he remained, and thus his whole dark scheme would be brought to naught. If he could manage to get her away by himself, he had some dim idea that he could either persuade her to marry him in the country, or eventually get her through the wilderness to Canada. Beyond this he had no settled purpose, but had taken the step in a moment of desperation, trusting that fortune would eventually work out matters to his advantage. 
               As the Indians had gone up the river, Hampton now turned down; and for a couple of hours he led Isaline forward, in and out among the rocks and beneath high, precipitous bluffs, till at last they came to a place where the water flowed along over a stony margin, close under an overhanging cliff. To continue on any further in this direction, without first going back some distance and ascending the steep, high bank, they would have to either wade through the water, which was not deep, or pick their way along on the top of the stones which here and there lifted their dark heads above it. Hampton explained this to Isaline, with the remark: 
               "If we go back, we shall lose a good deal of valuable time, besides the chance of breaking our trail, as we may do here if we continue on." 
               "But can we continue on without risk of life?" anxiously inquired Isaline; "and are you sure that we shall not meet some obstruction in this direction that will compel us to turn back at last?" 
               "I am not sure of anything!" gloomily answered Hampton; "but it seems to me that we ought to make the trial here and trust something to luck!" 
               "Rather say Providence!" 
               "Providence then, if you like the term better!" 
               "Providence is God," rejoined Isaline, solemnly, "Who is working out His own ends with us, as with all His creatures, in His own inscrutable way!" 
               "As you will!" said Hampton, rather coldly: "I am in no mood just now for a religious discussion. Well, shall we go forward and make the trial?" 
               "If you think best." 
               "Give me your hand then and follow me carefully." 
               Hampton now advanced slowly, leading Isaline, and cautiously stepping from one stone to another, holding his rifle in his disengaged hand, and occasionally using it to keep his balance. In this manner they slowly picked their way forward for some quarter of a mile, with the water gurgling and plashing along at their feet, when they came to a point where their further progress was barred by a huge rock jutting sharply out into the river. Both looked up in dismay at the dark object, which stretched up gloomily for a hundred feet above them, and Hampton angrily gave utterance to a wicked oath. 
               "Here you see what your Providence has led us to!" was his impious complaint. 
                
               "Rather say what your own wickedness has led us to!" sharply reproved Isaline, on whose refined, religious nature his irreverent language grated most harshly. "Look back, Charles Hampton, on your late course of life, and say, if you can, that you have deserved anything better!" 
               "But you, with all your nice, pretty piety, have deserved something better, have you not?" he retorted, with an angry sneer; "and it appears to be as bad for you as for me just now." 
               "It is not for me to say that I have deserved anything better," returned Isaline; "but this I know, that, notwithstanding all that has happened, I am as ready now to put my trust in Providence as at any period of my life. I may lose my life by the wicked machinations of those around me," she solemnly continued, "but I know there is a life beyond, 'where the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest,' and at least I will try to so live here as to be prepared for an eternal existence there!" 
               "Well," rejoined Hampton, "you can please yourself with what fancies you choose; but I'm not agoing to trouble myself about any life but this-because, to tell the truth, I don't believe in any other. If there is any Providence that has led us into this fix, I should like to see it get us out-and then, and just to that extent, I will believe in it. If Providence cares for you, who have so much faith in it, let it direct you now to escape from the savage crew that will sooner or later be howling after you!" 
               "Charles Hampton, do you believe in a God at all?" asked Isaline, looking full into his troubled face, by the dim light of the stars, as she stood there, in that wild, gloomy place, with the huge rocks frowning above her head and the dark river rolling sullenly along at her feet. 
               "No matter what I believe in!" he angrily replied; "this is no time for catechising! I have heard there is a God; but it is something I never troubled myself about, and don't intend to at present. I know we have got ourselves into difficulty here; and how to get out of it, in the best manner, is what most concerns me now. We have either got to go back, or scale this cliff; and we have got to do something - quick, or we may soon find ourselves caught by the infernal Indians, who, considering that we have been running away from them, will not be likely to treat either of us in the most gentle manner. A - pretty fix I am in," he continued, with a kind of savage bitterness, "with every man's hand against me, like a cursed Ishmaelite, and all because of my wild, mad love for you, who probably now regard me with abhorrence! If I fall into the hands of the borderers, they will doubtless murder me for going over to the Indians; and if the savages catch me, they may torture me for running back to the whites; and yet, Isaline Holcombe, I did both for your sake, and yours alone-did both that I might save you!" 
               "At all events," said Isaline, with a touch of compassion-for she, it must be borne in mind, knew nothing of the real secret which influenced his actions, and had reason to suppose them the unfortunate result of the passion he professed-"you are to be pitied; and if you will now conduct me into the hands of my friends, I promise you my own forgiveness for the wrong done to me, and will do all in my power to save you from punishment of any kind." 
               "Well," sneered the other, "it is something, certainly, to know that the girl you have distractedly loved and sacrificed everything for, can afford you a little pity and even forgiveness for what you have foolishly done, and that she will do her best not to have you punished for it! Really, my gratitude is most profound! and if I do not at once kneel and pour out my thanks in the most humble manner, it must be attributed, not to a lack of desire, but to the fact that the rushing water here below me makes it so difficult and unpleasant to perform!" 
               "You are very unreasonable!" returned Isaline. "I did but speak in accordance with your own assertion, and now you seem disposed to quarrel with me for it!" 
               "Well, perhaps I am unreasonable," said Hampton, after a moment's reflection, "for I am a harassed and disappointed man. Let it pass! and let us give our whole consideration to our disagreeable predicament here! Must we go back, and lose so much valuable time? to say nothing of returning toward the jaws of danger! Can we not scale this cliff in some way?" 
               "Impossible, I think, and certainly dangerous!" said Isaline. 
               "Stay you here a minute till I examine it!" he rejoined. 
               As he spoke, he moved back a few feet, close up to the base of the huge rock; and then, to the astonishment of Isaline, he suddenly disappeared from her view, as if he had vanished into thin air. She waited two or three minutes, wondering at the mystery, and then pronounced his name. No answer. She repeated it in a louder tone. Still no answer. A chilly feeling of alarm, deepened by awe, began to steal over her. What did it, what could it, mean? Had he sunk into the water? or fallen into a pit? While she yet stood looking, thrilled by a strange kind of fear, she was more than ever mystified and startled at seeing something like a spark of fire move slowly about, as if in the centre of the huge black rock. Soon it disappeared, and all was dark again. Isaline began to tremble, but kept her eyes riveted on the same place, with a weird-like fascination. More minutes went by, and she still stood there, growing cold and marble-like. Then the spark of fire reappeared, and seemed to be coming toward her from the depth of the rock. She would have turned and fled now, but she had no power. She felt herself spell-bound by the mystery. The next minute, however, she experienced a thrill of relief at hearing her name pronounced by the voice of Hampton; and immediately after his form appeared, coming out of the darkness. 
               "I must confess," he said, "your Providence has done more for us than I expected! I have discovered a cave here, that for the present may afford us the security we are seeking. I struck a light, and explored it for some distance; and would have gone further, only that I did not care to burn up my pine splints, and was afraid you would become alarmed at my absence." 
               This explained the whole mystery to Isaline, who drew a long breath of relief, though the sudden reaction left her weak and trembling. 
               "But what advantage will this cave be to us?" she asked. 
               "I think we had better conceal ourselves in it while there may be any danger of pursuit from the Indians!" he replied. 
               "But may they not trace us to this place?" 
               "If they were to make the attempt and take time enough, unquestionably they could do so," answered Hampton; "but you must bear in mind, my dear girl, that their motive for recapture is not a very strong one-that they are in an enemy's country-and that they know there is already an avenging force of Kentuckians on their trail. They may follow on our trail in the morning; but the moment they find any difficulty in tracing us-as I think they will, if they come to the point where we passed under this cliff-it is my opinion they will abandon the search and push on to save themselves." 
               "Similar calculations of safety were made when I was pursued before," rejoined Isaline, "and yet they only served to prolong the time of capture." 
               "Yes, but how different the circumstances!" returned Hampton. "In that case the pursuers felt in no danger of being pursued; and, more than that, I myself was with them, urging them on whenever their zeal began to slacken. Had it not been for me, I think they would have abandoned the chase with the close of the first day." 
               "And yet," rejoined Isaline, in a sharp, angry tone, "you have had the assurance to stand up before me, and seek my approval, sympathy and gratitude, for having got yourself into difficulty in trying to save me! In trying to save me from what, in Heaven's name? From the hands of my friends, to put me into the hands of my enemies?" 
               "Oh, now you are trying to see everything in a distorted light!" muttered Hampton. "But I'm not agoing to argue the matter with you! If you don't choose to understand it, as I have explained it, then think what you like, and make the most of it! Whenever you are ready, I will conduct you into the cave, and do what I can to guard you from danger!" 
                
               "I am ready now!" returned Isaline. 
               Hampton gave her his hand, and led her forward in silence. The mouth of the cave was narrow, and scarcely higher than their heads; and Isaline shuddered as she passed through it, with such a conductor, into the awful darkness beyond. A man without principle, or belief in a God, or a Hereafter-what assurance could she have against violence at his hands? 
               "From what little I saw of this cavern, I think it is large, and extends far back," he said; "but we will not attempt to explore it now. Here, it is my opinion, we had better pass the night, and, if possible, I want you to get some sleep. Fortunately I have a blanket with me-having first hid it in the wood, before I set off with the Indians, and recovered it after my return-and if you will wrap yourself up in it and lie down here, I will keep guard over you till morning." 
               In how many ways did this present flight from the Indians remind Isaline of the other! and yet in one respect how vastly different! The form that was a pleasure to her sight, the voice that was a melody in her soul, the great, brave, true noble heart, beating only for her, were wanting, and had no resemblance in the form here that would stand between her and danger, the voice here that could speak tender words, or the heart here that professed its love. With Henry Colburn it would be happiness ness for her to share danger-with Charles Hampton it would be misery for her to share safety. 
               To the proposition of Hampton, that she should lie down and endeavor to get some sleep, Isaline offered no objection-for as well sleep, she thought, as remain awake-better, in fact, if she could refresh nature and get rid of some painful hours. So she felt out a suitable place on the rocky floor of the cavern, and was soon at rest in body and oblivious to the troubles that had so oppressed her. 
               When Isaline next awoke, it was not only broad daylight, but she could see the sun shining low down on the rocks on the opposite side of the river, showing that nearly half of the morning had passed away. She looked around, and perceived her companion and guard stretched out asleep, a few feet from her, with his face resting on his arms and his rifle by his side. She spoke to him, but he did not hear her; and not particularly caring to disturb him, she arose and went to the water, which came up to the very mouth of the cave, and washed her face and hands and smoothed out her hair. 
               Then the idea suddenly came into her mind to escape from Hampton. Why not? There seemed to be a good opportunity, and she somehow felt she had nearly as much to fear from him as from a savage. He might be less brutal, but more wicked. She looked around at him. He had not moved, and was still asleep. In an instant her mind was settled. She would make the trial, and trust to that Providence at which he was so disposed to sneer. 
               At first she thought of hiding herself in the cavern. She could see it was large, with different passages extending far back into the darkness, with niches and angles and secret places in every direction; but if she were to conceal herself there, might it not be difficult for her to get out without being discovered? to say nothing of the danger of becoming so bewildered among the many turnings as not to be able to find her way to the entrance again! Why not fly at once, through the shallow water, along the base of the cliff, back to some point where she could clamber up the high, steep bank and gain the forest? Suppose Hampton were to follow and overtake her? she would only be his prisoner again as now; but then suppose she could reach the wood without being discovered, what little chance would one of his limited experience in wilderness life have of pursuing her trail with the rapid certainty necessary to a capture? What he had said of the Indians was probably correct, and there might be little to be feared from them, and possibly quite as much where she was as there would be elsewhere. But then again, supposing herself secured against pursuit, might she not get lost in the forest, and be unable to find her way to any habitation, and either starve to death or be destroyed by some wild beast? Yet why think more and calculate on unknown chances? There was danger here, there, everywhere, with God over all; and why not put her trust in Him and rush blindly forward? certain only that she must be justified in seeking to free herself from the clutches of villains and barbarians and preserve her own life. 
               All these thoughts, that have taken so much space to record, were but as one thought with Isaline-flashing through her brain in an instant-and almost the next moment she was acting on her resolution, and was leaving the cave in the manner she had approached it, by stepping from one stone to another. This she continued to do for some time; and then dropped down into the water, which was barely a foot in depth near the shore, and went splashing forward, in breathless haste, every moment or two glancing back to see if she was pursued. 
               Having reached the point where she could leave the water, she was still obliged to keep along the base of a high, rocky bluff, for a distance of half a mile, before she could find a slope that would permit her to climb to the wood above; and then she had to creep up slowly, holding on to bushes, and occasionally pulling herself up short, perpendicular ascents. In this way she finally gained the top, panting and trembling, and there sat down, to get her breath and a few minutes' rest. With an appetite rendered keen by long fasting and exercise, she now ate, with sufficient relish, the food she had reserved for a time of need, and then found her hunger in a great measure appeased and herself much strengthened for the work before her. 
                
               The scene about her was grand, picturesque and beautiful-with the rocky bluffs, the hills, the dales, the woods, the glades, and the dark blue river winding round among them all-but Isaline had no time and thought for anything beyond her own condition. Here she was now, a poor, unprotected girl, alone in the great, almost pathless, wilderness, seeking to escape from dusky savages and white villains, exposed to the perils from wild beasts and serpents and the danger of starvation; and this was enough for all the thoughts of her poor, throbbing brain. After a short rest, and an earnest prayer for protection and deliverance, she started up to resume her flight. 
               "The right way, O Heavenly Father!" she again prayed; "let my trembling steps be directed in the right way! that I may now be saved, and not again fall into the hands of my enemies!" 
               At that moment she heard, or fancied she heard, her name called by a distant voice-the voice, as she believed, of Charles Hampton-and she trembled in every limb. 
               "He must not find me!" she thought; "I must not fall into the hands of that dark, wicked man again!" and she started and ran forward into the thick wood; and then continued to run on, knowing nothing of the way she went, nor whither her steps were leading her. 
               Poor Isaline had struggled on for half an hour, and was still pressing forward, under dark trees and through thick bushes, when her progress was suddenly arrested, her breath suspended, and her heart seemingly stilled, by a series of wild, savage yells, fierce shouts, and the sharp rattle of fire-arms. The sounds appeared not to be very distant, even at first, and gradually drew nearer to where the poor girl stood. Her frightened senses were not very clear, but still she comprehended that a desperate battle had just begun between the whites and Indians. The Kentuckians had probably pursued and just come up with their enemies; and here, in her very presence, as it were, upon ground to which she had been strangely impelled, the bloody contest was already taking place which would result in triumph to friend or foe! If friend, she would be saved! if foe, she might be lost! And then, thoughts of all thoughts-to try every nerve, increase every emotion, and strain almost to bursting her already dizzy brain-what if Henry Colburn were here in the strife, and the good God should be pleased to grant victory to him, and permit the poor captive and wanderer once more to rest in his protecting arms, against his manly breast, behold once more his noble face, and hear once more that voice which was music to her soul? Or again, what if she should find him overpowered and slain, or a prisoner in savage hands, and know all hope and joy in this life lost forever? Ah! God in Heaven vouchsafe the one and avert the other! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               A STRANGE MEETING. 
               THE yells and shouts and roar of musketry grew louder and louder in the ear of the trembling Isaline. The storm of battle was clearly rolling up toward the point where she stood. What was to be done? To remain was to be involved in the contending forces, and to fly was perhaps to run into new danger-to escape it might be from friend to foe. Concealment seemed to promise most, and this was offered on the spot. An immense tree had been blown down just before her, and some of its roots were high above her head. A large hollow or cavity had thus been formed in the earth, and this was now filled with brambles. Down in this hollow, close up to the clinging roots of the tree, with the yielding brambles shutting her in, Isaline thought would be the safest place she could find, and she hastened to put herself there. 
               Nearer and still nearer rolled up the storm of battle. The yells grew louder, the shouts grew louder, the ring of rifles sharper, and now and then was heard the heavy groan or the shrill cry of pain. It appeared as if, while fighting desperately, one party was slowly falling back before the other; but which was pushing on in triumph, Isaline had no means of knowing. Nearer and still nearer came the sounds of furious contest; and at last, peering out from her place of concealment, she began to catch glimpses of white men, dodging from tree to tree, loading and firing, and then suddenly falling back, as if pressed upon by superior numbers in front. 
               The knowledge thus gained was most painful to Isaline, for it seemed to prove that the savages were gradually becoming masters of the field; and the bright ray of hope that had suddenly sprung up in her breast, was already beginning to fade out into the darkness of despair. 
               In a few minutes more the contest appeared to be directly around her, on every side, and she could now and then distinguish the supporting and cheering words of the brave Kentuckians, while the horrid yells and screeches of the savages seemed to curdle her blood. 
               Suddenly she became aware of a personal contest within a few feet of her. A white man and a savage had grappled and were swaying to and fro on the verge of the pit in which she was concealed. Each seemed struggling to throw the other; and now they bent and staggered this way and now that-one moment pressing up so as to stir the brambles over her head, and the next falling back some two or three paces. From her position, Isaline could not see their features, nor even the upper portion of their bodies; but she somehow felt as if it were a death-struggle between friend and foe, and that her fate was involved in the contest; and she trembled and held her breath, with her hands pressed upon her heart. Still they rocked and swayed, and stumbled to and fro, till at last the foot of the white man extended beyond the broken earth; and then, failing support, he fell backward upon the brambles, and came crashing down through them, just grazing the head of Isaline, with the panting and furious savage directly on the top of him. 
               Involuntarily, and we may add unconsciously, Isaline now uttered a wild, prolonged, piercing scream-a scream not unlike that made by the Phantom-and which went echoing and re-echoing far away through the leafy aisles of the forest. Fortunately it fell upon superstitious ears, and the effect was magical. The savage so near to the frightened girl, started up, with a yell of terror, scrambled out of the pit, and bounded away; other similar yells were heard in various directions; the white men shouted to each other and their voices soon grew distant; the firing and noise of conflict ceased; and in the course of two or three minutes the wood around had become as still as if no bloody conflict had ever taken place within its solemn depths. 
               Isaline was thus left in the bramble-pit, with only the body of a white man by her side. Perhaps a dead body-for it did not stir and gave no sign of life. Neither did she-for the shock of fright had so acted upon her overstrained, nervous system as to suddenly deprive her of consciousness. She had swooned. And thus the two lay side by side, with the yielding brambles closed around and above them, as the dead might lay. 
               After the lapse of a few minutes, Isaline began to revive. At first she was confused and bewildered, and could not recollect where she was, nor what had occurred to place her in that strange situation. 
               Then, just as she began to have a clear comprehension of the startling truth, a dull, heavy groan sounded in her ear. The man beside her then was wounded-perhaps dying-but not yet dead! Poor fellow! what could she do for him? and what might she dare do for him? for as yet she knew nothing of the effect produced by her shriek of terror, and still supposed herself surrounded by savage enemies. What had become of his dusky adversary? was her mental query; and why was all around her so silent? Had she indeed been unconscious for a long time? and was the battle indeed over? and who were the victors? 
               Another groan from the man beside her appealed directly to her tender, sympathetic, womanly nature. A fellow-being, who had bravely fought, (perhaps for her,) might be dying for the want of attention and care-such attention and care as it was in her power to bestow-and she now gave her whole thought to him. Carefully she pushed back the brambles and raised herself over him; and then, nerving herself for a horrid sight, and such work as it might be in her woman's power to perform, she carefully parted and pushed aside the brambles that concealed his face and body from her view. 
               Merciful God! 
               For a few moments Isaline Holcombe had no power of volition; her breath became suspended; her face colorless, even to her lips; her muscles rigid-her features stony-her eyes glaring! Then, with a great cry-great in its expression of agonized emotion, that welled up and rushed outward from the innermost depths of her being-she fell forward and clasped, with the embrace of a love eternal as immortal existence, the insensible form of Henry Colburn! 
               Thus had they been drawn together to meet again. 
               Was it Providence? 
               Tears came to the relief of Isaline-tears came and saved her: or reason might have left her-or soul and body might have parted: for unutterable joy, or unutterable grief, results sometimes in insanity or death. 
               While Isaline wept, with her arms clasping Henry and her lips pressed to his, consciousness returned to him: as if his spirit, hovering about its mortal tenement and ready to take its eternal flight, had been forced back and secured by the strongest of earthly powers. Consciousness returned to him, and he opened his eyes, to behold what his mental faculties ties were not prepared to comprehend and believe. Was he dreaming? or was the idol of his soul within his embrace? 
               "Isaline!" he murmured, and trembled with the sweet word, lest the ecstatic vision should suddenly dissolve and be no more. 
               "Oh, Henry!" burst wildly and rapturously from the quivering lips of the devoted girl, and was followed by a flood of tears. "Oh! God in Heaven be praised that you do live!" 
               Henry clasped his arms around her, and strained her to his heart, in a strange, incomprehensible delirium of joy. 
               For some time neither spoke again. It seemed to be enough for them to know that each lived in the other's arms-each lived in the other's soul. 
               Isaline was the first to break the rapturous silence. 
               "Oh, Henry," she cried, in sudden alarm, "Heaven forgive me for forgetting that you are wounded! that you may be dying!" 
               "Wounded, dearest angel?" he answered, with a wondering look at her, and a quick, puzzled glance around him. "Wounded? I? Where am I? and what has happened? and where did you come from? and how came we both here in this thicket?" 
               "Before I answer your many questions, dear Henry," replied Isaline, "let me find your wound and bind it up; and get the assurance, if our kind Father in Heaven will grant me so much happiness, that you are not now about to be snatched from me by death!" 
               "I think you are mistaken, dear Isaline, in supposing that I am wounded!" returned Henry. 
               "Why then were you so long unconscious, after falling down here, with the savage fairly upon you?" 
               "The savage?-yes-ha! I recollect now. My companions and I were engaged in a battle with the Indians, who outnumbered us; and they were driving us back-when-what?-let me think!-ha! yes-I encountered one single-handed; and we grappled and wrestled; and I fell down-down-down-I know not where." 
               "Here," said Isaline, "almost upon my very head! It was here you fell, dear Henry. I witnessed the awful struggle, and saw you come crashing down here, (though I little dreamed then it was you,) upon the very spot where now you lie, with the savage fairly upon you; and then I lost my senses, which have just returned again, to show you here by my side." 
               "Here?" exclaimed Henry; "was the fight here, do you say? Then where are the combatants now? Where are my friends and where are my foes? and what has become of the Indian I struggled with? and who, as you say, fell upon me." 
               "Ah, Henry, I know no more than yourself. When you fell, there was fighting all around us; but what followed, after the world turned dark to me, I do not know, nor how long a time has elapsed since then. I only know that, when I came to myself, all was still here till I heard you groan. Oh, do, pray, see if you are not wounded! for if not, why should you have been unconscious for so long a time?" 
               As no wound could be found upon the person of Henry-none at least more serious than here and there a scratch and a bruise-the conclusion was arrived at that he had been stunned in falling-which was in a measure confirmed by the discovery that his head in one place was much swollen and tender to the touch. His face too still exhibited some marks of the brutal treatment he had received from Blodget and Hampton. After the examination had been carefully made, Isaline breathed again; and even ventured to hope, though with fear and trembling, that all might yet be well with them. 
               "It is very strange," said Henry, "that friends and foes should all have left this ground so soon after the fight! for I can see, by the position of the sun, that no great length of time has elapsed since the struggle. Ha!" he added, "I think I understand it now! The whites have probably been vanquished, and the Indians have gone in pursuit of them! If so, the savages may come back again to search the ground for plunder and untaken scalps!" 
               "Oh, God forbid!" gasped Isaline; "for I am sure it would be death to me to again fall into their hands!" 
                
               "And you must not!" said Henry, with a shudder. "Oh, God of mercy, you must not!-sooner would I die to save you from such a fate!" 
               "But do not forget yourself, my noble, generous friend!" returned Isaline; "do not forget that those cruel beings would treat you even worse than me! for while I might be doomed only to rough, harsh usage, you would certainly be decreed to die at the stake, in the most agonizing tortures! Oh, I tremble to think what we have just escaped from! And oh! how wonderfully, mysteriously, miraculously, we have been preserved through all our perils and brought together again!" 
               "Most wonderfully, most mysteriously, most miraculously indeed!" said Henry. "Ah, my dear, dear Isaline, pray tell me what has happened to you? what terrible trials and sufferings and agonies you have gone through since we parted before the station, and I left you in the hands of two white devils, to say nothing of their savage friends? and how you came to be here in this pit, to receive me, like a guardian angel, when my enemy hurled me down, as he believed, to destruction? Oh, it is all so strange and wonderful, that even now I can hardly credit my senses, and am led to fear it is all a dream, from which I, too, too soon shall wake!" 
               "Henry," observed Isaline, solemnly, "it was Providence that preserved and brought us together, and Providence is God! That accounts for all-for His ways are not as our ways, and His secrets are past finding out. But Henry, my dearest friend," she added, glancing timidly around and up through the brambly screen, "have we time to remain here and recount our adventures? Are we safe here? Shall we not be in danger of recapture in case the enemy return as you fear?" 
               "That is what I must consider at once!" replied Henry. "Remain here, perfectly quiet, while I go and reconnoitre." 
               "Oh, you will be very careful, very prudent, Henry?" anxiously spoke Isaline, as he cautiously stretched himself up through the dense thicket to peer about him. 
               "My darling, I will!" he answered. "I will not forget that much of all we both have suffered, was the result of my carelessness; and God forgive me, if, with your sweet self in my care, I ever forget the lesson I then learned!" 
               Henry first peered about the wood from his place of concealment; and then, again cautioning Isaline to remain perfectly quiet and not expose herself to the chance view of any one, under any circumstances, he crept carefully up from the pit, out into the more open forest, leaving her, pale and trembling, to pray for his safe return. 
               He was only absent a few minutes from her side, and brought back with him two rifles. 
               "Here is a mystery which I cannot solve!" he said in a whisper, as with great care he drew together the bent and parted brambles over head, so that it might appear to a casual eye that they had not been disturbed. "When the savage and myself, with both our pieces discharged, suddenly encountered for that death struggle, which so providentially resulted in placing me by the side of the only being on earth I truly love, (for great events have been so ordered that I dare speak thus to you now, my darling,) we threw aside our larger weapons, and I have now found both on the ground where they fell. The question therefore arises, what has become of the Indian with whom I fought? I remember of being grappled with him, and struggling hard for some considerable time, and of finally falling what appeared to me a long, long way downward-though the distance, it seems, was only a few feet; but if he kept hold of me, as you say he did, what can have become of him? and how is it-since, as we see, he had strength enough left to get off-he did not kill and scalp us both while we were in his power?" 
               "It seems to me now," answered Isaline, reflecting, "as if I might have uttered a wild cry, or shriek, at the moment-but I am not sure. Would that have been sufficient to have frightened him off, Henry?" 
               "Perhaps-if, like the scouts, he had any superstitious fears concerning the Phantom." 
               "Oh, yes," rejoined Isaline, quickly, "the Phantom has actually appeared among the Indians. I saw it myself, and they heard it, and they fear it, and think it is an Evil Spirit!" 
                
               "Ha! perhaps then," said Henry, jumping directly at the truth, "you did utter a wild cry! (what more likely?) and both whites and savages, mistaking the sound for that of the object of their dread, at once fled in dismay. This would certainly account for their sudden departure, and is the most rational explanation I can think of." 
               "But even granting your conjecture to be the correct one, Henry, is there no danger of their coming back here soon?" anxiously inquired Isaline. 
               "Much may depend on circumstances." 
               "And if they should, are we safe here? are we concealed here from their sharp, prying eyes?" 
               "If we keep perfectly still and silent, I am inclined to believe we may not be discovered: at least, dear Isaline, I think we are quite as safe here as we can be anywhere in this region. If we were to attempt a hurried flight through the forest, we might run into danger instead of running from it-the eyes of some scouting savage might fall upon us and thus seal our doom." 
               "You think then we had better remain here, Henry?" 
               "For the present, dearest-perhaps through the day, to set off under cover of darkness. I have so arranged these brambles over our heads, that I do not think any eye will be sufficiently attracted to them to cause any search to be made underneath." 
               "But should the Indian you fought with return, would he not be likely to look into this thicket, to see if his foe be still here?" 
               "Perhaps. Still I cannot but think, dear Isaline, since we have been so wonderfully preserved and brought together, that a way will be provided for us to be saved. If we can only remain here undiscovered till night, and you find yourself able to endure the fatigues of a ten-mile journey, with God's help I will conduct you to a stronghold where you will no longer be in danger from the barbarians of the wilderness!" 
               "Are we indeed within ten miles of a station, Henry?" 
               "The distance is not greater-it may be less." 
               "And you know the way, Henry?" 
               "So well, dear Isaline, that I can easily lead you thither after dark." 
               "Oh, Heaven send us that deliverance!" 
               "And Heaven will, I do believe." 
               Henry now cautiously proceeded to load the two rifles, and place them in a position where they could be grasped in an instant. This done, he gently passed his arm around the slender form of Isaline, drew her fondly to him, and looking, with the eye of saddened love, full into her pale, sweet, lovely countenance, said tenderly: 
               "Isaline, my darling, now let me hear your tale of suffering since we parted-that parting, my sweet angel, that almost broke my heart-when I flew away from you as if I were a coward-but only that I might save you in the end, or come back as your avenger!" 
               "A parting," said Isaline, "that thrilled me with joy unspeakable, because of the belief that you might pass beyond the reach of your foes!" 
               "God bless you, my own!" returned Henry, impulsively drawing the noble girl to his heart, and impressing upon her sweet lips a seal of deep, pure, holy love. 
               Trembling with happiness, with hope, and with fear-with the warm blood mounting upward and giving the whole face a radiant glow-or falling back to the heart and leaving an icy pallor in its place-in accordance with the powerful and conflicting emotions that controlled her-Isaline began and told her tale. 
               Henry listened with intense and breathless interest, with a wildly beating heart, and with his feelings and passions so strongly stirred that he could not all the time keep silent, but was occasionally forced to interrupt the sweet narrator with an exclamation of anger, or of pity, or to ask some important question. 
               Among other things, the Phantom excited his interest and curiosity to a wonderful degree; but though his speculations failed to solve the mystery, they tended to convince him that it was some strange animal-perhaps of an unknown genus or species. Isaline, however, who had seen it, under the strong excitement of awe and fear, was not prepared to agree with him, because it had suddenly vanished from her sight; and how could a mere animal vanish? 
               "Optical illusion," explained Henry, who was something of a philosopher as well as artist. "Remember the hour, my dear Isaline, the dull gray of morning-the distance of the object from where you were lying-the excited state of your feelings, affecting your vision-and then the scene, so every way favorable to a sudden disappearance by the dropping of the Thing to the ground, or its quick gliding behind a tree, or its pushing into a thicket." 
               "No, Henry, it vanished!" persisted Isaline. Like most persons who have seen anything wonderful or marvellous, its mysterious properties had with Isaline been rather increased than lessened by subsequent reflection. "I was looking directly at it, had not for a moment taken my eyes from it, when it suddenly vanished, as if into air." 
               "Well, let it pass for the present, for I am anxious to hear the rest of your painful story, dear Isaline," said Henry, knowing how useless it would be to argue against an illusive conviction without substantial proof to sustain his points. 
               Isaline went on to the conclusion, and her eventful narration affected Henry in the manner described. During some of the details concerning Methoto and Hampton, he could not keep himself passive; and unconsciously his fingers clutched at his throat, as if his anger were choking him, or hovered convulsively sively around the haft of his knife, while his lips not unfrequently parted with a bitter, threatening exclamation. The final result, however-the bringing of himself and the being he loved together in so strange a manner-tended to soothe and soften down his revengeful irritation, and inspire him with a feeling of reverential awe; so that at last he bowed his head humbly, and said solemnly: 
               "It was the hand of God!" 
               At the urgent request of Isaline, Henry now told the story of his own adventures, after his escape from his captors before the station; but these we will not dwell upon. He had fortunately soon met with a large body of armed Kentuckians, who had been brought to the rescue from a distant station by Rough Tom; and he had subsequently been provided with arms and clothing, and had joined in the pursuit of the flying Indians. Rough Tom had received him with the wildest demonstrations of joy, as one who had come back from the dead; and learning from him that Isaline was a captive, the rough woodman had, in his characteristic manner, sworn to rescue her or lose his own scalp. Night soon coming on, they had not been able to pursue the Indians far that day, but had started on their trail at the break of morn. When they reached the place where the Indians had divided, their own force had also divided, and a part had followed each trail-Henry and the scouts pursuing the larger party, because they had discovered that Isaline had been taken along with the main body. Subsequently their force, large enough at that time to have overpowered the savages, had again been divided, the other division striking off to the northward, toward the Ohio, with the view of alarming the country in that direction and effectually cutting the Indians off from that river when they should attempt to leave the country in that direction, as it was supposed they soon would. By pushing on rapidly, giving themselves little rest, the direct pursuers, some twenty in number, had succeeded in overtaking the savages on the present morning, and the battle in which Isaline had so strangely been involved had been the immediate result. At the time of the attack, about half of the Indians were mounted; but these had quickly given their horses in charge of a few-who had taken them, with the plunder they were carrying, beyond the reach of the flying bullets-and then all had joined in the contest, fighting with a desperation that was giving them an assurance of victory at the moment Henry lost his senses in the manner shown. He knew that some had been killed and wounded on both sides; but what had since become of the living or dead, of course he could not say. 
               "When we first came up with the Indians, dear Isaline," said Henry, "I eagerly looked for you; but not seeing you among them, I had reason to suppose you had been killed; and then, with such mental anguish as tongue cannot express, I sternly resolved that while a single savage lived I would not come out of the fight alive; and that was the cause of my reckless desperation, of which you were to some extent a witness." 
               "Ah, my dear, dear friend," returned Isaline, "it is fortunate I then little dreamed that the white man I saw struggling with the Indian was yourself-though I thought it possible you might be in the fight-or I fear I should have impulsively rushed out from my hiding-place, and probably both of us would have been destroyed." 
               "God bless you, my darling!" ejaculated Henry, again pressing the lovely maiden to his heart. "How well everything was ordered for the salvation of us both!" he reverently added. "Ah, yes, dear Isaline, I truly see the hand of God in all!" 
               There was a long, solemn pause, during which both, with souls full of gratitude for their wonderful preservation, offered up silent prayers of thanksgiving. 
               "Was Rough Tom with you when the fight commenced?" at length inquired Isaline. 
               "Yes, he and the scouts that came with you down the Ohio, and a dozen or so of other borderers that you do not know. Ah! old Tom may be rough, as his sobriquet implies," said Henry, with an enthusiastic glow, "but his heart is true to his friends, and I shall never forget his eager determination to rescue the colonel's daughter, as he calls you." 
                
               "Heaven bless him!" ejaculated Isaline; "and I hope and pray no harm has befallen him!" 
               "God forbid!" said Henry, quickly; "for rough and unlettered as he is, I have not in all this wide world a friend to supply his place. I have not told you what I learned from him since we met-that he was on his way back from the train in search of us, when he saw the tornado tear through the wood before him, and believed we were both involved in it and destroyed-notwithstanding which, he went on, as soon as the storm was over, and, while picking his way through the fallen timbers, discovered the Indians. He then fled back to the train, which he found at the ford, with the water so raised that it could only be crossed by swimming over the horses. He gave the alarm-and a wild, terrific one it was-and had barely succeeded in getting the whole party across, when the savages appeared on the opposite bank and fired a volley over, killing a little child. Only for his turning back to seek us, the whole number would either have been killed or captured-for they would not have attempted to cross the river in its swollen state, and the Indians would have had them at their mercy." 
               "Ah, Providence again!" said Isaline; "do you not see? If we had not turned off from our companions, no one would have turned back to seek us, the Indians would not have been discovered, the ford would not have been crossed, and all would have been involved in one common ruin." 
                
               "True! true! true!" slowly and thoughtfully replied Henry. "Yes, I see, dear Isaline-I see! Such are the mysterious ways of Providence indeed!" 
               "Do you know if my poor girls reached the fort in safety?" inquired Isaline. 
               "Yes, and they are almost inconsolable for the loss of their sweet mistress." 
               "Poor dear things!" sighed Isaline; "I believe they truly love me!" 
               It was the design of Henry, as we have shown, that he and Isaline should if possible remain in their place of concealment through the day, and set off after dark to find their way to the nearest station; and in pursuance of this plan they had passed a couple of hours together, in undisturbed happiness, when, alas! a series of events took place which were destined to plunge them into the deepest depths of wretchedness and woe. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               GATHERING TO DOOM. 
               ALTHOUGH it is well known to every student of history that great panics in battle have resulted from the most trivial causes, and great armies by such means have been put to rout and dynasties overthrown, yet we do not recollect another instance where the shriek of a frightened woman put an end to a fierce contest and sent the whole number of combatants flying in different directions. Yet the effect of superstition on rude, unlettered minds, is such as to render men, who are ordinarily brave enough to face danger and death like Stoics, mere trembling, quaking cowards in the presence of some simple mystery which they cannot fathom. 
               The fight between the Kentuckians and Indians ceased suddenly with Isaline's wild cry of terror, and then each party turned and fled swiftly from the enchanted ground. The whites ran one way and the savages another, and neither party stopped till some two or three miles had been placed between them and the field of battle. 
               Among the borderers Rough Tom was acting as leader; and though one of the fastest runners at first, he gradually slackened his pace, and at last came to a sudden stop, and bellowed out: 
               "Halt, boys, and let the Phantom be -! for the furder I runs the meaner I feels. Wh-e-w! woofh! wagh! shagh! whar's the use? Come around me, boys, and let's see who's missing! How many's he-yar?" 
               A count showed only fifteen. 
               "Six gone!" roared Tom, with a tremendous oath; "six good fellers used up by them - greasy, paint-daubed, nigger-faced, owdacious, rum-guzzled, cantankerous, thieving devils! And we've run away and let 'em off, hey? By thunder, I'm agwine back fur revenge! and I'll hev it, ef I has to swim the Ohio to git it! Whar's Harry Colburn?" 
               No one had seen him since the fight. 
               "What!" yelled Tom; "he gone ag'in? and the colonel's darter not found eyther! By -! this he-yar's a lettle too much for a Christian, by a long - sight, and a'most tempts a feller to sw'ar!" 
               In fact it would seem it even did tempt Tom to swear-for he certainly managed to get rid of about a dozen oaths, that, in the mouth of any one else, would have sounded very much like profanity. 
               A consultation of the borderers resulted in a determination to go back and reconnoitre the field of battle. 
               "S'pose it war the Phantom," said Tom, beginning to bring a little philosophy to his aid, and really ashamed of the manner in which he had conducted ducted himself; "s'pose it war the Phantom, boys, and be - to it! It haint hurt nobody yit, as I knows on; and who's agwine to make a cussed fool of hisself, and run away from everything what takes a notion to screech and yell in the forest, hey? Has we been fotched up in the woods to be skeered at owls, hey? It looks like it, by Judas! I've heerd the - thing a good many times; I've had it light right on top o' my back onct, with its eyes of fire and breath o' brimstone, and all that; and I've done a heap of tall walking to git out of it's way; but ef ever I does it ag'in, just feed me on green persimmons, camp me on rattle-snakes, and rub me down with briers! Woofh! whar's the use? Boys, thar's nothing in it,-no, sir-not a - thing! Look he'yar! didn't it skeer us all nigh to death-all of us as was thar, I mean-the night of the duel? and didn't it git arter that infarnal, dandyfied, monkey-eyed, finiky slink of a coward-that ar' Hampton-that oughter been killed? and didn't we say the Devil had got him, and that he'd never come back, and sich like? and didn't he git off and jine the redniggers, and put all these devils on to our trail, and he hisself overhaul Harry and the colonel's darter? Whew! Whar's the use o' heving a Phantom, ef it can't put sich hellyuns as him out o' the way when it gits arter 'em? I don't believe in't no more; and I'm agwine back, to stand up, fa'r and squar', agin ary thing as wants a tussle with old Rough Tom! Agh! wagh! woofh! whar's the use?" 
                
               Now it so happened, that about the same time the Kentuckians were holding their consultation and resolving to go back, the Indians were doing the same thing. 
               "We have acted rather like children than warriors!" said Blodget, in his address to them. 
               He wanted to go back, for he hoped to be able to find Isaline, whose trail of the previous night they had been pursuing at the moment of being attacked by the whites; Methoto also wished to go back for the same reason; and the warriors generally thought they would be sufficiently rewarded for returning-for at least three of the whites had been killed, and only one scalped, and neither of them stripped, and there might be others wounded who had not been able to get away from the scene of strife. 
               So the Kentuckians and Indians started back for the battle-field about the same time-the latter securing and leaving their horses and plunder, and three wounded warriors, in a deep little valley, with three more of their number to guard them. 
               The main body of the savages returned leisurely, keeping out a few scouts in advance. They were mostly in good spirits, for so far they had met with as much success in the country as they had any good reason to expect. They had been driven from Higgins' Blockhouse, it is true; but since then they had had matters pretty much their own way. The first night they had secured a number of scalps, considerable plunder, and some twenty horses, with no loss to themselves; the second night their expedition up the river had proved a comparative failure, because of the whites having been on their guard; but they had come off without the loss of a single man, and had secured two more horses, and killed some cattle, and were therefore well supplied with meat. The desertion of Hampton and the escape of Isaline had annoyed and angered them not a little. At first they supposed Hampton had gone back to the whites, in revenge for the manner he had been treated in respect to his prisoner; but the morning had shown them the truth, in the connection of the two trails, and they had set forward to recapture both. The attack of the whites had been a surprise; but being superior in numbers, and having soon found themselves getting the advantage, the whole affair had been affording them a species of fierce delight at the moment when the shriek of Isaline had alarmed and put them to flight, and this because they had superstitiously believed the sound to proceed from something not of this world. They had the same belief still; but subsequent reflection and consultation had convinced them they had acted foolishly in running away; and they were now returning, with a determination to face the mystery and secure whatever advantage might still be left to them. 
               At the time when Isaline, seated on the high bank of the Kentucky river, just after her escape from Hampton, fancied she heard his voice calling her name, she was not mistaken. She fled through the forest, it will be remembered, and he actually set forward on her trail. Though wanting the experience of a regular woodman, he succeeded in tracing her into the wood, and was carefully following in her steps, when the distant sound of fire-arms reached and startled him. He stopped, for he had no desire to go forward and fall into the hands of either the whites or savages. Not knowing what better to do, he remained within hearing of the sounds of conflict till the battle ended in the flight of the combatants. The Indians fled somewhat in his direction; and from his place of concealment, in a thick copse, he actually saw some of them pass within hailing distance. He did not hail them, however; but supposing the battle had gone against them, and that the Kentuckians would soon follow them, he struck off in another direction, thinking now of his own safety rather than the recapture of Isaline. In doing this, heedless of his course, he soon got bewildered, and was wandering about in the wood, when he was suddenly sprung upon and secured by two of the Indian scouts while on their return to the place of combat in advance of the main body. Hampton attempted some resistance at first; but having been taken by surprise and at advantage, it proved to be very feeble; and a blow on the head, that nearly stunned him, effectually settled the matter. His captors now gave a loud, peculiar halloo, and were immediately answered by more than a dozen voices from a distance. 
               In the course of three or four minutes the warriors came bounding up, and, on seeing Hampton, uttered fierce yells of satisfaction; and several rushed up to him, with horrid scowls, and struck him with their fists and the handles of their tomahawks, and pinched and kicked him, and howled and danced around him, and insulted him with such English words as they could remember: 
               "Big t'ief-steal squaw-mean man-run away-burn heap good-big liar-" and so forth and so on. 
               Thus was this scheming villain already getting a bitter taste of that misery he had so fiendishly designed for his rival. Being a captive of savages, he now found was a very different thing from being an ally and friend. 
               Blodget and Methoto were among the last to rejoin the fierce group, now whooping and dancing around Hampton, and it was easy to see that both were surprised and gratified on discovering who was the new prisoner. 
               "Oogh!" grunted the white savage, coming up close, with a fierce gleam of satisfaction: "other man steal Methoto gun-you steal Methoto squaw. Dog!" 
               With the last word he struck the prisoner a blow in the face with the flat of his hand that staggered him back against one of the Indians, who struck him another blow from behind that pitched him forward, at which there was a shout of savage laughter, in which Blodget joined. 
               "Oh, my dear friend," said Hampton, pleadingly, to the decoy, "do not let me be abused in this shameful manner!" 
               "Don't call me friend, you - pusillanimous sneak and woman-stealer!" cried Blodget, fiercely; "for I don't admit any such scum to an equality with myself! Say, where's that girl? what have you done with her?" 
               "I don't know where she is," answered Hampton, in a humbled tone. 
               "Don't tell me any lies now, or I'll cut your - heart out of you!" cried Blodget, striding up to Hampton, with a flourish of his knife. 
               "I really don't know, upon my honor as a gentleman!" 
               "Your honor as a gentleman!" sneered Blodget; "ho! ho! ho! that's what every gallows-bird swears by. But the girl, you villain! the girl! where is she? for I'm bound to have her!" 
               "Oogh! squaw-where she?" grunted Methoto. 
               "Well, never you mind!" muttered Blodget, in a low tone, and with a furtive glance at the white Indian; "you can't have her, wherever she is!" 
               "If you were to kill me for it, I could not tell you where she is now!" replied Hampton to Blodget's question; "but I was on her trail and following it, when I lost it, and got lost myself afterward. Have you and those brave warriors been having a fight this morning?" 
               "What's that to you? you - sneaking coward!" returned Blodget. "You haven't done any fighting since you've been with us, and therefore it can't matter to you! What do you mean by saying you were on the girl's trail? Wasn't she with you?" 
               "She ran away from me this morning." 
               "She did, eh? Sensible girl, by -!" 
               "I was following her, when I heard the sound of fire-arms." 
               "And then you stopped, of course, like the sneaking coward you are!" 
               "I stopped," returned Hampton, "because I did not want to fall into the hands of the enemy." 
               "Which do you call the enemy by this time?" asked Blodget, with a sneer. 
               "Why, the borderers, of course-the Kentuckians." 
               "Oh, you do, eh? Well, then, what do you call us?" 
               "I supposed you to be friends." 
               "It's quite likely you'll find us such one of these days-warm friends-very warm friends!" rejoined Blodget, with a malignant laugh. "I suppose you know what'll be done with you, don't you?" 
               "I hope you will not be too hard on me, for taking a little liberty!" said Hampton, in a deprecating tone. "I know I did wrong-but it was hastily and thoughtlessly done. I never intended to go over to the enemy, and have not done it. The fact is, I thought you had got defeated; and thinking you might have retreated in this direction, I was hurrying on this way to overtake you, when I got somewhat bewildered, and wandered about, I don't know where. That is how I came to be here; and if you will be kind enough to explain this to the Indians, perhaps they will not be so angry with me." 
               "I'll do nothing of the kind," said Blodget, with a savage frown, "because I don't believe a - word of it myself! No, sir-that cat won't jump! You're lying, and you know it! So you thought we were defeated, eh? A - pretty opinion you must have of us, if you think we could be whipped by a handful of Kentuckians! No, it was one of those infernal screeches that did the business and made - fools of us all!" 
               "I heard something like the scream of a woman," said Hampton, "and thought it was the girl." 
               "By -! perhaps it was!" exclaimed Blodget, catching at the idea; "I shouldn't wonder if it was-that is, if she was anywhere about in that region." 
               "She must have been near the scene of battle," returned Hampton, "for her trail was leading straight toward it, and she could not have been very far ahead of me I know." 
               Blodget now addressed the Indians-who, while this conversation was going on, had kept very quiet, evidently waiting for it to terminate. As soon as he had done, they showed in their looks an eagerness to set forward; but before they did so, they stripped Hampton of nearly everything, in much the same manner as Henry Colburn had been robbed when first taken. 
               In our description of the dress of Charles Hampton, when first introduced into our story, we stated that it was fashioned after the manner of the borderers, but of much finer material than was generally seen in the wilderness; that his rifle and hunting-knife were silver-mounted; and that he wore jewelled rings on his fingers, and silver-buckled shoes in place of moccasins. Since then his clothes had become a good deal soiled and injured in his rough journeyings; but they received a good deal rougher treatment now, being almost literally torn from his back, and afterward into strips, that they might be more equally divided among the savages he had once called his friends and now felt to be his enemies. The oldest chief-(for there were no less than four elevated to the dignity of command-though so simply democratic were the savages in their general regulations that no one had superior power in council-) took possession of his rifle, another of his knife, a third of his silver buckles, and so on-Methoto getting a few trinkets, and Blodget managing to secure two of the most costly rings-he only, besides Hampton himself, knowing their real value. In tearing his coat into pieces, a large number of guineas, sewed up in the lining, became revealed, and created much pleasant diversion for the savages, though Hampton inwardly groaned at the loss of his ill-gotten gains, his only means of support in civilized society. Some of the Indians knew something of the value of these gold coins-for they had seen them pass among the Canadian traders as articles that were prized-but Blodget, far better than any, understood their real worth, and, by one means and another, managed to secure the lion's share, which tended to put that villain in pretty good humor. 
               "I didn't know," he said to Hampton, with an insulting laugh, "that you were such a golden goose, or I'd have found a way to pluck you sooner. Why, the feathers are the best part of the bird, and your clothes are worth more than your carcass." 
               "I am ruined!" groaned Hampton, with tears in his eyes. 
               "And it's my opinion somebody else was ruined to set you up!" laughed Blodget. "Come, who did you rob? for you never got this money honestly-you're too much of a villain for that. Ho! ho! a pretty time you were going to have of it, running off with that girl! I wouldn't wonder now if you had Canada in your eye-for I'm certain you'd never have dared to show your face among the Kentuckians again, after the treacherous trick you played them. If they catch you, you'll swing; and if we keep you, you'll burn; so, between the two, you're pretty sure to be sent to the devil before long!" 
               "What have I ever done to you," asked Hampton, "that you should delight in treating me in this cruel manner?" 
               "Cruel!" repeated Blodget, with a fiendish laugh. "Do you call this cruel? Just wait till we get you home, and you'll look back to this time as one of the happiest of your life-you will, by -! So, what did you ever do to me, eh? Why, you played the dandy gentleman-getting me and my friends to do all the work for you to reap all the profit. If you'd done your share of fighting, and kept along with us, and strictly conformed to all our regulations, you'd have been treated well, and been honored by these brave warriors; but you saw fit, in your natural meanness, to play the traitor, and now you'll have to take the consequences. I want you to know that an Indian decree, passed in council, is not mere child's play, to be put aside by everybody's whim-no, not by a - sight! It would have been bad enough for you to have run away yourself; but stealing off that girl, who'd been taken out of your hands and wasn't any longer your property, was an insult to the whole party; and, now that you're caught, you'll have to suffer for it, and serve you right!" 
               "Try me again," pleaded the trembling villain, "and I swear to bring in white scalps enough to redeem myself!" 
               "I don't want to try you again," said Blodget, "for I've got you now where you're safe; and if ever I get that girl, I intend to have her myself. She's just the kind of human piece to suit me, and I shall be as anxious to get all rivals out of the way as you were. If Methoto goes to set up any claim, I'll have to fix him off in some way, for I'm bound to have the girl. But there! I've wasted time enough with you; and now we must hurry back to the place we left in such a - cowardly manner. Ten to one it was the girl's scream that frightened us, and I must get the best Indian scouts to hunt up her trail and follow it." 
               With this he turned away from the wretched Hampton, and addressed a few words to the Indians, in a loud tone. 
               Blodget was not an acknowledged chief among the savages, but his influence over them was really greater than some who were. A shrewd, cunning, unprincipled fellow, of fair education, some natural abilities, and considerable knowledge of human nature-a braggart in speech and a coward at heart-fawning and sycophantic where these base qualities would best serve him-cruel, revengeful, and merciless to the unfortunate in his power-sociable and companionable with his equals, and a devil at tormenting the condemned-he had managed to secure the good opinion and confidence of the savages, so that he could use them in carrying out his own schemes and at the same time lead them to believe he was merely an agent of their will. From the first he had coveted Isaline; and when chance had given him an opportunity to weaken the hold of Hampton and place her more easy to his own grasp, he had not failed to throw in such words as had then influenced the savages to the decree which had put her possession at the price of blood. His rage at losing her had been terrible, and Hampton, for his part in it, would never be forgiven by him. In the capture and certain doom of the latter villain, one rival was already disposed of; and the other, Methoto, would be, should he become troublesome. But first and in the meantime to find the girl. 
               Binding the arms of Hampton behind his back, in the manner that Henry Colburn had been secured, and throwing the scouts forward as before, the whole number of savages resumed their march toward the battle-field. 
               When within some quarter of a mile of the late scene of conflict, the main body was stopped by the sudden return of two of the scouts. They evidently brought some news of great importance, for a consultation was immediately held, and was soon over. 
               Then Hampton was suddenly thrown down, and his legs firmly bound together by stout thongs of deer-skin. Then he was lashed to a sapling in an upright position, a ligature so tightly passed around his neck as to choke him if he bent his head forward, and a large gag forced into his mouth. In this painful position he was left to the uncertainties of the future-the Indians slipping away and vanishing, as if they were so many evil spirits departing on a mission of wickedness. 
               The last to quit the side of Hampton was Blodget; and he lingered, as he ironically said, to give him a few consoling words. 
               "You were pleased to think," he went on, "that we had been whipped by the - Kentuckians. You'll soon have the pleasure of knowing how confoundedly mistaken you were. We got scared and run like - fools, and they did too. We've since mustered up courage enough to come back, and so have they. They've got ahead of us, lucky for us, and now think they're masters of the field. Ha! ha! a good joke, as you will soon see. They're back on the battle-field, looking after their dead and wounded, and picking up odds and ends, and perhaps bragging among themselves about their victory, and how they'll pursue us and all that. They don't know, the fools, that we're so near them, and that our scouts have already seen them, and that we'll soon have their scalps dangling at our girdles-all at least except one or two-for if we can catch that Colburn alive, I've given directions to have him preserved, in order to put him along side of you and have a pretty pair of beauties to amuse me with. Well, now you wonder, when there's so much at stake, that I don't hurry forward, instead of standing here wasting my time with you. I don't mind telling you why, for I know you won't mention it to the Indians. I'm a little like you-I'd rather be a little behind, while there's any considerable danger, and come bravely in at the death, with a loud shout of victory and a big blow about desperate courage. So, now that you know all, I'll say by-by for the present; but I'll come back to you, don't you fear!" 
               With this Blodget turned away, and soon disappeared in the direction already taken by the savages. 
               It was not long after this before Charles Hampton heard a series of wild, savage yells, accompanied by the sharp rattle of musketry. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               THE LIVING AND THE DEAD. 
               HENRY and Isaline were still conversing together in whispers, in their place of concealment, when the former suddenly started, with a look of alarm, turned slightly pale, and placed his finger to his lips. Isaline had not herself heard anything; but she feared they were menaced with new danger; and instantly the blood forsook her sweet face, her breathing ceased, and her heart appeared to become still. 
               "It may have been fancy," at length whispered Henry, "but I thought I heard a sound like the distant snapping of a dry stick." 
               "Oh, Heaven grant our cruel enemies be not returned!" gasped Isaline. 
               "There! hark! do you hear that?" 
               "I hear something like the rustling of bushes, Henry." 
               "All still again!" said Henry, after a brief pause. "Perhaps it was only some animal passing through the wood here!" 
               "God grant it!" 
               "Ha! there again!" 
               "It is like a human voice now!" gasped Isaline, the picture of terror and despair. 
                
               "It is a human voice, speaking in a low tone!" said Henry. "There! another voice now, as if in reply!" 
               "Friend or foe, Henry?" 
               "The sounds seem hardly guttural enough for savages." 
               "Oh, if the borderers have only returned!" said Isaline. 
               "Hark!" said Henry, with a bright flush of joy. "I do believe I hear the voices of our friends!" 
               "Oh, Father in Heaven, grant it!" prayed Isaline. 
               The sounds gradually became more audible, as if the speakers were drawing nearer to the spot where our lovers still remained concealed. 
               Presently other voices were heard; and immediately after, both Henry and Isaline were able to distinguish the solemn words: 
               "We'd better dig thar graves here!" 
               Isaline laid her trembling hand upon the arm of her companion, and looked almost wildly into his face. 
               "Our friends have returned to bury their dead!" he said, with a look of solemn awe. "God be praised, that deliverance has come to us! But there will be a sight, my dear, sweet Isaline, that you must not look upon! Let me go out to them alone, my darling; and when all is over, I will return for you and conduct you from this terrible place." 
               "Oh, dear Henry, are you sure?" 
                
               There was no need of a reply to the question-for in the same moment a voice, which they both recognized, was heard saying: 
               "Whar's the use? I can't find Harry Colburn, eyther living or dead." 
               "Ha! my friend Tom! I must go to him at once!" said Henry, with a bright gleam of satisfaction. "Remember, dearest, you must not leave here till I return for you!" he added, as he quietly rose and cautiously crept out of the thicket. 
               "Oh, look out well for danger, dear Henry!" returned Isaline, warningly. 
               "I will, my darling, never fear!" 
               On creeping out from the thicket, Henry perceived his late companions grouped together at the foot of a tree, Rough Tom among the number. He approached them quietly, and was not perceived till within a few feet, when he was greeted with a shout of pleasure. Rough Tom fairly danced with delight, and grasped his hand as warmly as if he had been absent for a month. 
               "Harry, my boy," he said, "I'm glad to see you! for I war afeard that eyther the red-niggers, or the Phantom, or some other infarnal thing had sent you to Kingdom Come!" 
               "I had a wonderful preservation, Tom!" said Henry; and as he spoke, his eye fell upon three still, bloody forms, that lay stretched out, side-by-side, at the feet of the men. "Dead?" he asked, with a shudder, pointing to the bodies. 
                
               "All dead," answered Tom, "but only one of 'em sculped. We've picked 'em up and fotched 'em he-yar to bury 'em. Thar's two more on us missing yit, though I kind o' hope they'll turn up like you has. But whar'd you come from, Harry?" 
               "Do you see those brambles, filling up the hollow made by the uprooting of that old tree yonder?" 
               "I 'spect." 
               "I have been concealed there ever since you left." 
               "Too skeered to run and make a slinking fool of yourself, like we done, hey?" grinned the old woodman. 
               "No, I have not been scared at all-at least in the way you probably suppose!" smiled Henry. "I was thrown down there by an Indian, who fell with me, and I suppose would have killed me, had he not himself become frightened and run away in such haste as to forget his rifle." 
               "And you warn't skeered by the - screeching Phantom, nary onct, hey?" said Tom, with a doubting, quizzical look. 
               "I have not heard the Phantom-at least to-day." 
               "No? Then what did you hear? Call it the Devil, ef you likes that better." 
               "I was stunned by my fall, I suppose, for I heard nothing!" rejoined Henry, purposely prolonging the subject, in order to draw Tom out and then give him a pleasant surprise. "When I came to my senses, I was greatly astonished to find that both you and the Indians had gone and left the field clear. At first I was alarmed, thinking the savages might be in pursuit of you; but subsequently I came to another conclusion. What was the real cause of your flight? and where are our enemies now?" 
               "What become of the Injuns, I don't know," answered Tom; "but we all got skeered together, by a most infarnal screech-jest like that we've heerd afore-and all on us run-me leading off and making a gineral jackass of myself. Harry, you know this yere arn't the fust time I've run, and made a cussed, scrouging, coward ninny of myself, jest for a screech or two; but ef ever I does it ag'in, jest you mention it to old Rough Tom, and guv him my compliments, and tell him he's a - fool! Agh! woofh! whar's the use?" 
               "And did you really hear a shriek, Tom, like that we have heard before?" 
               "Yes! we heerd it last night whar we was camped you know, and this morning ag'in, right in the middle of the fight." 
               "Did it sound like the scream of a woman?" 
               "So'thing like it-only more so." 
               "Where was it?" 
               "The Lord knows!" 
               "Where were you?" 
               "Right over thar, whar you sees that bent tree." 
               The spot pointed out was about twenty yards from the bramble-pit, and Henry asked if the sound appeared to have come from that direction. 
                
               Tom did not know-it appeared to him to have come from everywhere. 
               "I think I have got hold of the Creature that made the noise!" said Henry, gravely. 
               "You hev got it cotched, you say?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Killed it?" 
               "No." 
               "Got it yit?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Whar is it?" 
               "In yonder bramble-pit." 
               "Woofh! thunder! what is't like!" 
               "Very much like a woman." 
               "Big as a woman?" 
               "As big as some women." 
               "Any fire and brimstone about it?" 
               "Have not seen any. You see I am not scorched anywhere-not even my hair singed." 
               "It arn't the same one I seed then!" said Tom; "for that thar war all fire and brimstone!" 
               "Except the hair and scales like a fish, as you remember you mentioned, Tom!" smiled Henry. 
               "Shagh! whar's the use? I'd like to see this critter of yourn, Harry!" 
               "Well, you shall; and you will be pleased with the sight I know. I have not been so delighted with anything since I lost the colonel's daughter." 
               "Ah, that poor gal!" sighed Tom. "I'm afeard them devils put her out of the way, and that we'll never see her ag'in! I say, younker, how's we agwine to face the colonel and tell him we lost the gal?" 
               "It would be hard to do I know, Tom; but then we have the satisfaction of knowing we did all in our limited human power, and are not to be blamed for results." 
               "You don't take it so hard's you done at fust, do ye, lad?" said Tom, kindly. "I'm glad on't-fur I spected what lettle sense you'd got war agwine to peg out and leave you luny! In course I'd go my death to save that ar' gal; but ef it can't be did, why, whar's the use? We'll hev to face the colonel; and you'll hev to find another gal, or else let the courting business drap, which I spect ar' a heap the best. I never had no women bothering me-no, sir!" 
               "Well, come, Tom, let me show you this Creature, that I am satisfied gave you such a fright." 
               "Down in the brambles thar, and nigh as big as a woman?" 
               "Yes." 
               "How've you got it fastened?" 
               "I left it perfectly free." 
               Tom turned and faced his young companion and laughed derisively. 
               "You're a confounded finiky fool about some things, younker!" he said. "D'yer s'pose that ar' Varmint's agwine to stay thar by itself, whilst you goes around and axes up your friends to make a monkey show on't? And that jest puts me in mind-how'd you cotch it?" 
               "It caught me first, Tom!" smiled Henry. "When I recovered my senses, after my fall, I found it in my very arms; and it has been with me ever since; and it being so tame, I thought of course it would not run away, even if I left it alone for a few minutes; so, as I happened to hear you speak my name, I hastened here to meet you. But come and see for yourself!" 
               "Eyther you're a - fool or I is, and I knows it arn't me!" grumbled the old woodman, as he went forward with Henry, leaving the others busy in digging the graves of their dead comrades with their knives and hatchets. 
               "By-the-by, Tom, are you sure we are perfectly safe here from an attack of the savages we were fighting with?" asked Henry, as they walked toward the thicket, glancing around him somewhat anxiously. "If they got frightened off from the same cause as you did, may they not take the same notion to return?" 
               "No danger, I reckon!" answered Tom. "They'll be glad enough, I spect, to make purty clean tracks for the Ohio now, and we oughter foller 'em! We scouted all around afore we come he-yar, and seed thar trail leading off in that direction; and ef t'other party, as went off with Pete Billings that way, keeps thar eyes skinned, we'll hev every dog of 'em yit! I wonder whar the other two missing fellers is that we can't git no trace of? I don't know whether they was wownded, tuk prisoners, or what!" 
               "Here we are!" said Henry, as they drew near the place where Isaline still remained concealed. "An Indian and myself, after a shot at each other and a miss on both sides, rushed together here and clinched; and he got the better of me, and threw me down into these brambles, himself falling with me; and when I came to my senses, he was gone, and the wood around here was completely deserted. Do you stay here a minute, Tom, and I will go down and bring out the Creature I have been telling you about." 
               "And you think you'll find it thar yit?" rejoined Tom, shaking his head. "Shagh!" 
               "Oh, yes-for I am certain it would not run away!" said Henry, as he disappeared on the other side. 
               He was absent only a minute; and then reappeared, helping out Isaline-who, having heard most of the conversation, understood the whole matter, and needed no explanation from Henry. 
               The moment Tom saw her, he started and stared-rubbed his eyes and stared again-and then, with a yell of delight, rushed up, threw his strong, rough arms around her, and, giving her a hug that almost took her breath, exclaimed: 
               "Catermounts and allergaters! ef this he-yar don't beat all creation, whar's the use? Why, gal-I beg pardon-Miss Holcombe, I mean-I'm as tickled to see you as ef you war my-my-own mother! How d'yer do it?" 
               The other borderers now came running up-among whom were the scouts who had journeyed so far with Isaline-and for a few minutes there was a scene of wild, noisy, joyful excitement. Many questions were asked and answered, and loud and hearty was the laugh at the idea that the whole field of battle had been cleared by the single scream of a frightened woman. 
               "Well, boys," at length said Tom, "we mustn't lose too much time now; and so, as soon's you've got them poor fellers kivered decent, we'll hold a confab, and fix on our next doings, and tramp out of this, eyther arter the red-niggers or back to some fort." 
               "We'll soon be through now!" replied one of the men, as they went back to their solemn work, leaving Rough Tom, Henry and Isaline standing together. 
               "Ah, you rascal!" cried Tom, with a laugh, giving Henry a hearty slap on his shoulder; "I don't wonder you tuk it so easy with the Phantom! Wagh! you've had your joke on me, and I spect I owes you so'thing; but I'm too powerful happy jest now to pay it, with the colonel's darter back ag'in amongst us all safe!" 
               As he said this, standing close by the bramble-pit, with Henry and Isaline both looking at him and smiling, five or six savages suddenly sprung upon them, with their horrid yells; and, before the least resistance could be made, our two friends were overpowered and borne down to the earth, and poor Isaline was pinioned in the strong arms of Methoto. At the same moment the rest of the savages burst upon the larger group of Kentuckians, yelling like fiends, and pouring in a destructive volley. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               THE FIENDS TRIUMPH. 
               THE dreadful work of slaughter was soon over. The Kentuckians, busy over their dead and suspecting no danger, with not a single rifle in their hands, were taken at a terrible advantage, and could offer but a feeble resistance to their overpowering foes. More than half of them were shot down at the first fire; and the others, with the exception of three, who ran and were pursued, were speedily dispatched-clubbed muskets and tomahawks doing the bloody work in a very brief time. No prisoners were taken here-every man was killed. 
               The last to come up but the fiercest in the work of butchery, was Blodget. He fairly maddened in it. His knife and tomahawk were plied with a rapidity and vigor that soon covered him with large splashes of blood-hands, arms, face and body. He was eager for scalps, and he managed to secure four. These were more than his share-more than were taken by any one warrior. 
               "Now then," he muttered to himself when all was over, his dull, leaden eye brightening and gleaming with fiendish satisfaction, "the girl's mine beyond all power of Methoto, the - Buffalo! for I can show two scalps to his one. I fixed him!" he chuckled to himself; "for when we both got sight of the girl, I sent him after her, along with a few warriors, to take her lover and his companion prisoners-well knowing, if they did that, they'd serve me and get no scalps-at least he wouldn't-while I'd have the better chance at these fellows here." 
               The slaughter over-for, owing to the circumstances we have mentioned, it was rather a massacre than a fight-and the dead all scalped and plundered-the savages, in the best of spirits, came together for a consultation, gathering around the prisoners that had been spared. 
               Rough Tom and Henry, meantime, had received much the same treatment as Hampton; and now, with nearly everything stripped from their persons-their faces, arms and bodies marked with blows-they stood bound to a sapling, bearing up under their misfortunes with the heroic fortitude of brave men; but Isaline, poor Isaline, was still in the arms of her captor, the rough Methoto, who having now got possession of her, was disposed to retain it as long as possible. Yielding up glory, revenge and plunder to his companions, he had contented himself in withdrawing from the others and seating himself on the trunk of the fallen tree, where he now held Isaline hugged to his breast, in much the same manner as one child is often seen to support another. Blodget had sent him to secure her, for the reasons we have named; and he had not only faithfully obeyed the commands of that villain, but had exceeded them in so much that he still literally kept her in his own possession, under the impression that she was to be his prisoner altogether, as she had once been Hampton's. And she, poor girl-confounded and bewildered by the shock which had so suddenly changed her happiness into horror, with only a stupefied consciousness of misery remaining to her-made no attempt to escape from the arms that held her; but sat, with her eyes fixed on Henry, as one who saw yet only partially comprehended. 
               Blodget, as he came up and glanced at Methoto, scowled darkly; but his first words were addressed to Henry. 
               "So," he said, shaking the gory scalps of his late victims in the face of the young artist, "we've got you back again among us, have we? Glad to see you, and hope you'll stop awhile with us-long enough to make a respectable visit at least. Who's this other fellow here?" nodding to Tom. "I don't think I know him. Why don't you introduce me? where's your manners?" 
               "Jest you cut these yere cords, you white devil, and I'll shake hands with you!" growled Tom. 
               "Really, my worthy old codger, you do me too much honor!" grinned Blodget, striding up and slapping the woodman some half-a-dozen times in the face with the bloody scalps in his hand. "Here's a greeting for you from your old comrades, who've been fools enough to step out and leave you behind!" he pursued, with the cool malice of a demon. "How was it you didn't go with them, eh? Perhaps you were afraid to see the devil so soon after making a spooney of yourself!" 
               "Wagh!" grunted Tom; "you kin talk more - nonsense nor any fool I ever see!" 
               Blodget laughed. 
               "Old codger, you amuse me!" he said. "What a fine time I'll have with the three of ye-for there's another fellow traveller waiting to join his song of glory to yours." 
               "Whar?" asked Tom, looking around. 
               "Oh, he's not here," said Blodget; "we left him back in the woods a piece, holding up a tree, like you're doing. An old friend of yours," he pursued, turning to Henry, "and very fond of that girl there, that Methoto's playing doll baby with-Charles Hampton, he calls himself." 
               "What!" cried Tom, with a fierce gleam of joy; "you got him tied up like us?" 
               "For all the world like you, except more so!" grinned Blodget, whose whim it was just now to be more amused than angry. "He's got a little extra touch, in the shape of a cord around his neck and a gag in his mouth. You know him then?" 
               "S'pect I does!" replied Tom; "and ef you've got him fixed, like you say, I kin a' most call it squar' about myself-for he's the - slinking skunk that got us into all this yere trouble." 
               "Yes, you see, he got us over here, so's he could catch the girl; and then he was ready to bolt, and did bolt!" rejoined Blodget. "He run off with the girl, and then she run off from him, and then he run after her till he heard us fighting, and then he run off by himself, and run right into our hands, which was little the rummiest run of them all," and Blodget concluded with a fiendish laugh. 
               "All right!" said Tom; "you jest keep him; and ef you takes a notion to see a lettle fun. jest you untie us both in a opening whar thar's room enough to hev a white nigger licked! Agh! wagh! whar's the use?" 
               Again Blodget laughed, and, by one of those strange freaks in human nature, began to conceive quite a liking for the rough woodman. He asked him his name, which Tom readily told; and, after a few more questions and answers, said, with some show of good feeling: 
               "Tom, you ought to join the Indians; and if, when you get to their towns, you take a notion to do so, I'll do what I can for you!" 
               Tom's first impulse was to say he'd rather join the imps of darkness; but he suddenly recollected his condition-a bound and helpless prisoner-and had the good sense to understand he had better have the vile decoy for a friend than an enemy-at least under the present circumstances-and so he rejoined: 
               "Thank'e, hoss-you tork like a trump; and I'm not sartin but what as how I'd make a purty considerable siderable kind of a scrimptious sort of a red nig-a-a-Injun-yes, sir! S'pect me and you'd git along amazing-for I reckons we'd both like to tickle up that thar devil of a Hampton, hey?" 
               "Yes, indeed, my jolly old codger!" laughed Blodget; "and if we don't both have a chance, it shan't be my fault." 
               At that time Blodget really meant what he said-for he was in good humor over his late success, and Tom had not done anything, at least to his knowledge, to incur his personal hate. He had called him a white devil, it was true; but that, under the circumstances, only showed he was a bold, brave fellow, who was not afraid to speak his mind and take the consequences; and though a coward himself, he admired courage in others. Tom's hatred, too, of Hampton, to that degree that he was half willing to suffer himself so that that villain might be punished with him, was a sort of bond of affinity between them. Moreover, he wanted a white companion who could speak his own language, and he foresaw he was going to have trouble with Methoto, which would make the two deadly enemies. And then the rough woodman really amused him, with his odd way of expressing himself. So, all taken together, produced an effect which no one could have calculated on before they met-for human nature is such a strange instrument, so strangely attuned, that the wisest player that ever lived is not always sure of the sounds he will evoke when his hand sweeps the cords. 
                
               Blodget now said a few words to the Indians in favor of Tom; and then, with the scowl settling back on his brow, he strode over to where Methoto was still sitting, with the half stupefied Isaline clasped in his arms, and addressed him in the Indian tongue, of which we will give a free translation. 
               "Has the Buffalo turned into a squaw who is nursing her first child?" he asked, in a sneering tone. 
               "No, the Buffalo is a braver warrior than the little sneaking Fox who puts the question!" replied Methoto, with a sullen gleam of hate. "But the Buffalo has got his own-got what he has long been seeking-and is content. Let the sneaking Fox go his way, and not get under the hoofs that will crush him!" 
               "The Buffalo has not got his own, but that which belongs to another, and which he will not be allowed to hold!" returned Blodget, scarcely able to keep his fierce passions under his control. "Behold the scalps of the warrior, which give to Wawakotchethe
                     Shawanoese for Fox-the Indian name of Blodget.
                   the prize he fought for!" he added, with a flourish of his bloody trophies. 
               "Oogh! stolen from dead men that his red brothers had killed!" growled the white Indian, with a look of contempt. "The Fox had the cunning to bring in the courage of the goose-but let him not force the Buffalo to use his horns! The squaw belongs longs to the Buffalo, who saw her before the Fox, and she gave herself to him afterward. There is no more to be said. Go!" 
               "Has the Buffalo forgot the decree of his red brothers?" asked Blodget, rather mildly, not altogether fancying the look with which Methoto accompanied his last words. 
               "The Buffalo has said 'Go'-let the Fox heed in time!" rejoined Methoto, his cold, gray eyes gleaming out wickedly through a dark, heavy scowl. 
               "Our red brothers shall decide!" said Blodget, drawing back. 
               And then, as he turned on his heel and advanced to the group of warriors, who were already preparing to resume their march back to where they had left their horses, he muttered in English: 
               "The - insolent scoundrel! I'll have his heart's blood and scalp too before long!" 
               He then addressed the warriors, demanding that Isaline should either be given up to him now, as having the best right to her according to their decree, or else that she should be taken in charge as a general prisoner, as had been done before. 
               "My red brothers must see that if either the Buffalo or the Fox is entitled to her possession, it is the Fox!" he said in conclusion, holding up his scalps. 
               The Indians were not slow to decide the point, for their former decision covered the whole ground. The girl could belong to neither of the white men till they should reach the Ohio, and then their scalps should be counted and the matter finally settled. 
                
               "The brothers of the Fox are wise, and he bows to their will!" replied the cunning Blodget; "let the Buffalo do the same and yield up the girl to their possession!" 
               The principal chief now advanced to Methoto and said: 
               "My brother is holding what is not yet his own, and his brothers will take the prize in charge!" 
               "And let it run away, as they did before!" grumbled Methoto, with a lowering brow. 
               "No, it shall be better guarded this time." 
               "Tell my brothers the squaw gave herself to the Buffalo, and he would rather take care of her." 
               "The warriors have already decided, and there is no need for more words!" rejoined the chief, rather sternly. "If the Buffalo would not get into trouble, he will now yield to their wishes and be silent!" 
               Finding the matter thus fully settled against him, Methoto sullenly yielded to the general demand. Placing Isaline on her feet, with a scowl and a sigh, he got up and walked away. The chief took her by the hand and led her up to the savage group, who stood waiting to see the result-she, pale as a ghost, uttering not a word, and moving forward as if mechanically. 
               Unbinding Tom and Henry, all except their hands, and placing them separately in the file, with Isaline in the rear, the Indians now resumed their triumphant march in the same direction they had fled before. 
                
               When they reached the place where they had left Hampton, and found him still secured to the tree, with the gag in his mouth, they uttered a few joyous whoops, and all who had taken fresh scalps paid him special attention by slapping the gory trophies in his face. 
               "You see I'm a prophet!" said Blodget to him, with a brutal laugh; "for I told you, you know, we'd use up the Kentuckians, and we've done it! Only two or three of them got away, and all the rest that are alive you see here in the shape of a couple of your friends." 
               "Don't call me the friend of sich a - slinking coward as him!" growled Tom, who happened to be standing within a few feet of the treacherous villain. 
               "Almost my own words to him, when he had the impudence to call me his friend some time ago!" laughed Blodget. 
               It would be hard to find a more miserable wretch than Hampton was now, as he turned his dark eyes from one to the other of the persons around him, and saw no pity in any face, with the exception, perhaps, of that of the girl he had so deeply wronged, and whose now sad, sorrowful features seemed to have sympathy with all that suffered. 
               Unbinding Hampton from the tree and taking the gag from his mouth, the Indians placed him in the file, in the same manner as the others, and again resumed their triumphant march. 
               In something like an hour they came in sight of their horses, plunder and guard; and then they stopped and gave a series of halloos, one for each scalp and prisoner, and followed these with a few short, sharp yells of joyous triumph. These were joyously answered by the guard; and then succeeded two long, dismal howls, announcing that two of the wounded warriors, left in their charge, had since breathed their last. 
               This suddenly changed the rejoicing to mourning and rage; and as the savages hurried forward and looked at the dead bodies of their comrades, some of the fiercest and least thoughtful were for dispatching the prisoners at once. A consultation was held to decide their fate, and all the cunning address of Blodget was required to save them. 
               "Let my brothers be wise," he said, "and not now, in a moment of passion, destroy those who may afford us much amusement when we reach our homes. The brave dead fought well and have been amply avenged. Their enemies' scalps, in large numbers, are now dangling at our girdles, while not a single scalp have the Long  Knives
                     A name originally applied to the Virginians by the Indians, and afterwards used by them to designate the border whites indiscriminately.
                   to show in return. The friends of the braves who are gone will wail for them; and their living brothers should give them the means to rejoice, by presenting them with prisoners for the tortures." 
               His words produced a marked effect on the minds of the savage group, and, his purpose being ably seconded by the chiefs, he soon had the satisfaction of seeing his point carried unanimously. 
               The Indians, having destroyed or vanquished those who had directly followed and attacked them, now felt perfectly secure, not dreaming there were still larger parties of the whites roving through the country which stretched between their westward trail and the Ohio. They felt, however, they had ventured enough for the present; and, loaded with plunder and covered with glory, they were resolved to begin their homeward march, to enjoy the gratulations of their friends for the triumphs they had so bravely won. But there was no need of haste, they reasoned, and so everything was leisurely done. First they buried their dead, and did what they could for the only wounded sufferer remaining. He had been shot in the side, but appeared not to be mortally wounded, and was able to sit a horse. They next prepared their midday meal, and gave the prisoners all they wanted. Isaline took hers, but scarcely tasted it; Hampton and Henry ate only a little; but Tom devoured enough for three ordinary men-carelessly remarking to Blodget, with his mouth full of the tender, well-toasted meat: 
               "I've seed worse cooks nor these red ni-a-a-Injuns-and I've got a holler in me you could chuck a ox into-yes, sir!" 
               "Fill it then," laughed the decoy, "for you won't always have so good a chance perhaps!" 
                
               "Jest what I's a thinking on!" mumbled the fearless borderer; "me and you come to p'ints amazing! Woofh! whar's the use? Ax Hampton ef his jawrs is sore chawing that thar stick?" 
               "You're a trump, by -!" rejoined Blodget, with another laugh and a friendly slap of the woodman's broad shoulder; "and when I get you home to our village, I'll do what I can for you!" 
               "Ef you ever does, you sneaking slink of the devil!" thought Tom, as he looked at the other with a pleasant grin, which, it must be confessed, was very far from conveying a true idea of the state of his feelings. "Nothing like playing possum when a feller's got nothing better to do!" mentally pursued Tom. "I'll live to fix this yere white nigger yit!" 
               Having finished their meal and smoked their pipes, the Indians resumed their journey to the northward, intending to avoid all fortified settlements and get out of the country as quietly as possible. By adopting this course-which they did without any knowledge that a division of the whites had struck across the wilderness to head them off-the chances were more than a thousand to one-in fact almost infinite-that the savages would escape without being molested by any armed body of their foes; and this Tom comprehended, with a mental groan, when subsequently informed by Blodget of their design. 
               The larger part of the Indians rode their captured horses; but all the prisoners, with the exception of Isaline, were compelled to go afoot-though they were not loaded with burdens, as was not unusual in a march of this kind-the plunder, which was considerable in bulk, being placed on the backs of a few of the quieter animals. Isaline, as on a previous occasion, was mounted in front of a fierce-looking savage, but was respectfully treated and without abuse. Her feelings, and those of Henry-as, stripped nearly naked, he was forced over the roughest ground, with here and there a sharp stick and stone lacerating his naked feet-we must leave to lovers to imagine. Both were thankful, however, that the life of the other had been spared, and that as yet they had not been separated. What the future might have in store fore them, it was terrible to conjecture; but as in their hour of happiness, so in their hour of misery, they silently and secretly prayed to Him who alone had the power to deliver them from the hands of their enemies and bring them together in safety and joy. Blodget rode a part of the time and a part of the time walked; but Methoto, having got possession of a horse, seemed little disposed to yield it up to any one, even for a brief time. He had nothing to say; but, with his brow clouded and a wicked light in his eye, he kept steadily along, brooding over his dark thoughts, and secretly calculating the chances of carrying out a design he had already imperfectly formed-a design which concerned Isaline, and was destined to bring about some strange and startling events. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND. 
               THE sun had set, and the first shadows of the coming night were beginning to steal over the forest, when the Indians came to a halt in a wild, romantic spot, on the bank of a little stream, and prepared to encamp. It was now that Methoto, in a careless manner, rode up along side of the warrior having charge of Isaline, and said, in a quiet, ordinary tone: 
               "Does my brother think this a safe place for our night-camp?" 
               "Does the Buffalo know of any danger?" asked the other. 
               "No! but would it not be safer on higher ground?" queried Methoto. 
               "Our scouts can pass the night on the surrounding hills!" observed the savage. 
               "Waralothe is wise!" rejoined Methoto; "and if he thinks it safe here, the Buffalo is content. A fine horse Waralothe has under him!" he pursued, riding up still closer and patting the beast on the neck; "he carries two as if they were but one." 
               The Indian grunted assent, and slid down from his back, on the side furthest from Methoto. At the same moment the white savage glanced quickly around him and saw that the other Indians had all dismounted. Some were near him, but the majority were several yards distant. Then it was that Methoto acted with remarkable quickness and decision. Suddenly throwing his right arm around Isaline, just as her guard was about to take hold of her, he drew her to him, with the power of a giant, and, striking his high-spirited animal and giving a loud yell, dashed suddenly away. Isaline uttered a wild scream of terror; and the savages, the instant they comprehended the audacious truth, also gave loud vent to their rage, discharged some of their pieces at random, and sprung after the flying fugitives, some remounting their horses and some running on foot. 
               They might as well have followed the wind. Methoto rode for life, and night soon came on to put an end to the vain pursuit. One by one the warriors returned, angry and sullen. 
               Blodget was so enraged at the loss of the girl and the triumph of his foe, that he threw himself down on the ground, rolled and howled, and then got up and beat Hampton with his fists till he was tired. Then he cut a stout switch, and was proceeding to serve Henry still worse, when the whole camp was startled with that strange, wild, prolonged, quavering shriek so often heard before. It did not appear to be far distant, for it was loud and shrill, and seemed to be floating in the air, so that some of the superstitious and awe-struck warriors looked up, half expecting to see the Evil Spirit in a terrible form. It was three times repeated, and then all became still, till the howling of a few wolves broke the gloomy silence. Blodget threw down his stick, walked away, and sat down, looking pale and frightened. 
               "Did not our assembled wisdom decide that whoever should harm the white squaw should himself come to harm?" observed one of the chiefs, with a superstitious solemnity. "One ran off with her, perhaps for evil, and the watching-spirit sent him back to our hands a prisoner. Now Methoto has gone, but let us not envy his fate!" 
               Ah! how was it with poor Henry, when he found that Isaline had been carried off by that terrible being who in his wild passions he fancied was more to be dreaded than the native savages? And he to see her go, and hear her shriek for help, and yet remain a bound and helpless prisoner, without even the feeble consolation of being able to start in pursuit! When we sometimes learn of great calamities bringing suddenly the most crushing weight of grief and misery upon a single human being, we wonder how the awfully afflicted individual can bear up under it and live; but we must consider that the God of Nature has kindly provided for this by a stupefaction of the senses. As only a certain amount of physical pain can be borne without that loss of consciousness which deprives the patient of sensible suffering, so also of mental anguish. To the first keen, piercing pang, there often succeeds a dull, heavy stupor, which saves the sufferer from insanity and death. It was thus with Henry Colburn in the present instance. At first he felt as if he must shriek out his very life-as if his very soul must tear asunder its bonds of clay and be free-and then a dull, heavy stupor stole over him; and he lived on, with a dim comprehension of the horrible truth-with a sense of some great misery weighing him down-but, along with this, an irresistible desire to put aside all thought, and sleep, and be at rest forever more. 
               The Indians did not now feel altogether safe where they were, and set a strong guard on the hills around their camp. The night, however, passed away without anything to excite fresh alarm. The wolves howled around them more or less, it is true; and there were other gloomy sounds, belonging to the forest; but these were not the things to keep the warriors from their sleep. Most of them slept soundly. So also, strange as it might seem but for our explanation, did Henry, though painfully bound, and in the midst of his foes, with the being he loved above all others in the hands of a wretch capable of the most terrible crimes. Rough Tom, too, slept some; but he often awoke with a start, and cursed the bonds that kept him from an attempt at freedom. As for Hampton, he scarcely closed his eyes. Wearied, bound and bruised, with aches and pains all over him and a hell within, with the consciousness that he was ruined, and that all he suffered had been brought upon himself by his own wicked plans and deeds, he was now experiencing some of the torments he so richly deserved. 
               At the first streak of day Blodget roused the Indians and harangued them. He set forth, with all the eloquence of which he was master, the heinousness of Methoto's offence in deserting them and carrying off their fair prisoner, said they would be forever disgraced if they permitted him to escape, and begged that a part of them at least might be sent with himself in pursuit of the treacherous villain. He was warmly opposed by some and as warmly seconded by others. The more prudent thought the risk of dividing their small force too great for the purpose to be gained, even should success attend their efforts, which was more than doubtful; that, being in the country of the enemy, from whom they had won so much glory and plunder, they ought to be contented with what they had and push forward and cross the Ohio as soon as possible-more especially as they were leaving a broad trail behind them, and might still be rapidly pursued by overwhelming numbers. Under any other circumstances, Blodget would have been the last to urge pursuit and incur the delay and peril which must attend it; but now he was too insane on that one point to reason with his usual shrewdness and cunning. He had set his heart upon having Isaline at any cost; and he could not endure the thought that she was not only lost to him, but that he had been robbed of her by one he had already begun to hate, and who would in effect triumph over him by her possession. So he continued to urge and plead, assisted by some of the fiercest and boldest spirits, till at last he had the satisfaction of finding his request granted, though with great reluctance and much warning. 
               Six of the best and bravest warriors were selected to accompany Blodget; and as soon as the morning repast was over, they were ready to bid adieu to their comrades and set out on their uncertain and perilous venture. Before he left, Blodget went to each of the prisoners-for such was the meanness of his nature that he could not bear to part from them without a few annoying and tantalizing words. 
               "My dear fellow," he said to Hampton, with mock sympathy, "you're looking rather the worse for wear! I am inclined to fear you didn't rest well last night!" 
               "I did not sleep at all!" groaned the haggard villain. 
               "Strange!" said Blodget, with a sorrowful air; "and I'm at a loss to account for it. It could not have been the bed, for where could you find a better? You really must have had something on your mind! Well, cheer up! You're going home among your friends, you know, and they'll take such tender care of you. I'm sorry I've got to leave you; but the fact is, I'm going after the girl; and when I get her back, and get her home, we'll have such a wedding! and something hot to cheer you, for I know you must be fond of something hot! There, my good fellow, I know what you'd say, for I can see you're brimful of gratitude; but no thanks, I beg of you-no thanks!" 
               "Mr. Blodget," said Hampton, with a groan, and in a pleading tone, "I know you are a gentleman not devoid of kindness; and now that I have been so severely punished, will you not forgive me-at least a little-and loosen these cords that are cutting into my wrists?" 
               "Shall I loosen the other prisoners' too? or only yours?" asked Blodget, with a sly twinkle of his dull, leaden eyes. 
               "Only mine, Mr. Blodget-only mine!" answered Hampton. 
               "You don't care for the others then, do you?" 
               "No, I don't care how much they suffer, for they deserve it!" 
               "Their cords don't hurt you any, do they?" grinned the decoy. 
               "No, not in the least." 
               "Well," rejoined Blodget, yours don't hurt me any; and so why should I care more for you than you do for the others? You're a clever fellow, Hampton; but I'm afraid you're too selfish, and lack Christian charity. By-by! and don't forget to say your prayers!" 
               As Blodget coolly and mercilessly turned away to the next, Hampton fairly gnashed his teeth in helpless rage. 
                
               Henry, as we have said, had slept heavily through the night, owing to the stupor brought on by his overwhelming grief; but with the full return of consciousness, came back a full sense of his misery, and his mental sufferings no pen or tongue may ever portray. Pale, haggard and crushed, he was sitting with his head dropped upon his breast when Blodget came up and addressed him. 
               "Well, my friend, how fare matters with you?" said that devilish villain, seizing him by the hair and bringing the head back with a jerk. "Ah! laughing, I see, as usual. You were so amused when Methoto ran off with your girl, that I was afraid you'd kill yourself with laughter, and you haven't got over it yet I find. Capital, wasn't it? For your sake I'm almost tempted to let him go-for no doubt the two of them will have a delightful time together, and I'd like to do all I can to please you; but unfortunately I want the girl myself, for we're engaged to be married, and so I'm going to seek her. I can't bear to leave you, for I'm afraid you won't get on well without me; but then I hope to get through in time to overtake you before you get to our village. In case I shouldn't, however, I'll see you there, and you shall dance at my wedding. By-by, my dear friend-by-by-and I'll tell the sweet girl you sent her a kiss, and give it to her for you!" 
               While this devil was speaking, Henry strove to keep down his temper and appear unmoved, well knowing how worse than useless it would be to show anger and so increase the triumph of his deadly foe; but Blodget's allusions to poor Isaline almost drove him mad; and in spite of all the Stoical philosophy he could bring to his aid, his face grew pale and red by turns, his ashy lips quivered, the veins on his forehead swelled and stood out like whipcords, and large beads of perspiration gathered all over his agonized features. Had Blodget continued his tortures, he might have driven him insane; and had Henry's hands been free, it is more than probable he would have struck the villain dead at his feet. All this Blodget saw and understood; and though he rejoiced in the tortures he inflicted, it was no part of his scheme to overthrow his victim's reason-for then he would be beyond his power of tormenting, and an object of commiseration with the Indians-who, barbarous as they were, superstitiously respected what they believed the Great Spirit had touched; and besides, he felt that he had no more time to waste. He therefore turned to the rough woodman-who, having heard his remarks to the others, and especially to Henry, was trying to keep his rage concealed and appear indifferent-and said, with something perhaps of sincerity: 
               "Tom, I'm going to leave you for a while, to try and see if I can catch that devil Methoto and get back the girl; but I have told the Indians to let up on you as much as they safely can, and not treat you too harshly. I think your hands are tied rather tighter than they need be, and you needn't be surprised if your captors loosen them a little." 
               "Thank'e!" answered Tom; "and I'm not the nigger to forgit all your kindness. I hopes you'll git the gal and fotch her back safe, and guv that devil as tuk her what he oughter hev!" 
               The last sentence at least was sincerely spoken-for the return of Isaline, even as the prisoner of such a villain as Blodget, was in Tom's opinion a less cruel doom for her than being left alone in the hands of such a human beast as Methoto; and moreover there seemed a possibility that he might sooner or later effect his escape; and if she were known to be with the Indians, she should be rescued, if it were to take half the men in Kentucky to do it. 
               "I'll have the girl yet!" said Blodget, with a braggart air; "and what's more, I'll wash my hands in the heart's blood of her captor!" 
               With this he strode off proudly, and joined the Indians who were to accompany him; and, shortly after, the prisoners saw the party for the uncertain venture glide off through the forest and disappear. 
               "Oh, my God! my God!" groaned Henry, as he still sat with his head bowed to his breast; "how much can a human being endure and live? At what point of unspeakable woe does the heart break or reason desert her throne?" 
               "Never say die, my brave friend!" returned Tom, in a low tone; "thar'll so'thing turn up yit. The Devil haint got everything his own way yit, or else whar's the use? No, sir! Woofh!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               GAINING FREEDOM. 
               IN so much as concerned the treatment of the prisoners left with the main party of savages, the departure of Blodget was a blessing to them-for rude, brutal and cruel though these children of the forest might be, they at least could not torture the souls of their captives with maddening words more difficult to be borne than blows. 
               These Indians, however, in justice to them be it said, did not in the present instance seem disposed to conduct themselves with any undue severity toward those under their charge. They shared their morning meal with them-unbinding their hands so that they might feed themselves-standing guard over them while they did so-and then, as a necessary act of prudence, securing them again, but in a manner to give them far less pain than before. Colburn and Hampton, both extremely dejected, though with feelings perhaps as different as light and darkness, ate little, and that rather through force than desire; but Tom bolted his portion with a gusto and zeal that amused the savages not a little. True to his assertion, Blodget had spoken some favorable words of the old woodman; and the savages, elated with their success since coming into the country, and having no personal ill-will laid up against him, were now in the humor to treat him with comparative leniency. They tied his hands behind his back again, it is true; but they took care to put the cord in a new place, where it would not give him so much pain as before, and only drew it reasonably tight. And then one of the chiefs went so far as to pat him on the head, and say, in his broken English: 
               "White brudder good Injun make!" 
               "Ef I couldn't make a thundering sight better one nor some of the white hellyuns you've got amongst ye," grinned Tom, "I'd guv you leave to roast me fust and bile me arterward! Wagh!" 
               The Indian laughed, though he only imperfectly understood him; and turning to his companions, he said something to them, at which they laughed also. 
               In the course of half-an-hour after the departure of Blodget and his party, the main body of savages, numbering about twenty in all, resumed their route to the northward, all riding except the prisoners and a couple who kept along on foot with them to act as a special guard. To the left of them, at no great distance, was the Kentucky River. They did not attempt to follow the windings of that stream, however, but rather aimed for a middle course between that and the Licking, as leading more directly through a wilderness where there were no formidable stations, and only at the most a few isolated settlers. They had no purpose in view now except to reach the Ohio without molestation and cross over to the safer shore, which they expected to do by means of a raft, to be constructed on the bank after their arrival, for the journey back to where they had left their canoes was too far and difficult to be thought of at all. 
               The prisoners were now allowed to walk near enough together to converse with each other, which, thanks to the lenient disposition of their guard, was not forbidden, and Tom was the first to avail himself of the liberty. Looking at the distressed and haggard face of Henry, he attempted in his rude way to offer him what consolation he could. 
               "It's powerful hard, lad," he said, in a sympathetic tone, and with his rough features softening and his eyes filling with tears, "for you to bear up ag'in all the trouble that's come upon you; but cheer up, Harry, and never say die! for whar's the use?" 
               "Oh, Tom," groaned Henry, in a low, tremulous voice, with his bloodless lips fairly quivering, but still keeping under, by a master effort of his will, emotions that seemed as if they would rend his soul from its earthly tenement: "oh, Tom, only to think, after all my pain, peril, anxiety and suffering, of mind and body, beyond even the tortures which savages have power to inflict, that I should again have her in my arms, and experience a few minutes of such earthly happiness as I had never before known, and then see her suddenly snatched from me, and subsequently borne off to a doom a thousand times worse than death, without the power to even so much as lift a hand in her defence! Oh, my God! my God! how do I bear up against it and live!" 
               "It's powerful hard, Harry, I know," returned Tom; "powerful hard; but then I s'pect it arn't quite so bad as you makes it out-no, sir! Ef the gal war dead, thar'd be a eend to hoping, you see; but now thar's a chance as so'thing 'll turn up and fotch it all out right at last. That thar devil as tuk her off won't kill her-and t'other devil as went arter her won't-and so (lowering his voice till only Henry's ear could catch the words) when we gits away we'll hunt her up, and you'll see happy times yit." 
               "When we get away!" repeated Henry, in a low, guarded tone, looking wonderingly at Tom; "have you any hope of that?" 
               "In course I has," answered Tom, with confidence; "d'yer think these yere ripscallion niggers is agwine to keep us all our lives? Not ef I knows myself! Shagh!" 
               At this moment Hampton, who had been walking some distance ahead of our friends, observing them in close and confidential conversation, slackened his pace till they came up with him. 
               "Git out, you infarnal white nigger devil you," growled Tom, "or I'll smash your skull in the fust chance I git! All this yere devilish business we owes to you; and all the satisfaction I gits out of it ar', that you'll git what belongs to you afore long!" 
               "It was you that drove me to it!" muttered Hampton. "In a moment of anger, at the manner I had been treated, I was tempted to join the Indians; but I subsequently repented, and the first opportunity I got I ran off from them, with the young lady, intending to take her home to her father; but she, being distrustful of me, frustrated my good intentions, and ran away from me; and in following her I was caught, as it seems she and you were too shortly afterward." 
               "Go away!" said Tom, quietly but sternly, accompanying the words with a look there was no mistaking; "go away, or I shall hurt you! for ef my hands is bound my feet arn't, and I'm a rigelar hoss at kicking. Go away! I don't want to speak to you, and I don't want you to speak to me! Whar's the use?" 
               Evidently Hampton thought his company not wanted, and that something disagreeable might possibly happen should he venture to remain; and so, with a drooping head and downcast look, he moved sullenly away, and walked on by himself-the Indian guard not interfering with either of the parties, but keeping them under a sharp surveillance. 
               "Tell me, Tom," said Henry, as soon as he could again speak without being overheard by a third party, "what chance there can possibly be of our getting away from our captors!" 
                
               "Oh, thar'll so'thing turn up, Harry, arter a while," answered the other, rather from a hope than from any settled plan of his own. "You see these yere savages is beginning to let up on us a lettle; and ef we keeps along kind o' docile, they'll let up on us a lettle more, and a lettle more, by degrees like, till thar'll so'thing come on't sure!" 
               "Then it is into the far future you are looking!" groaned Henry; "and the awful present is so all important to me! Oh, God give me strength to bear up under this weight of misery that is crushing me!" he prayed. 
               "Well, you see, my dear feller," pursued Tom, "it mayn't be so fur off as you thinks, arter all! My hands arn't tied so tight as they war; and ef I kin jest manage so's to git 'em free, without the red niggers knowing on't, I'll guv'em the dodge somewhar; and then good-by, old Injun; for the two-legged critter as kin cotch and hold me, arter I've had ten rod the start, kin set hisself up in the chain-lightning business-yes, sir!" 
               "But then, Tom, if you were free, I should still be a prisoner!" 
               "Would ye? how long? Heaven and 'arth, younker! d'yer think I wouldn't hev the half of Kaintuck arter these yere devils, but what I'd fotch you out cl'ar?" 
               "And meantime what would become of poor Isaline?" groaned Henry. "No, no, Tom, my good, stanch friend, if ever you get away, give not a thought to me till you have saved Isaline Holcombe! for what is life to me without her! Nothing! nothing! Oh, Tom, I do not think of myself, only for her sweet sake! I would gladly lay down my life now, at any moment, to save and restore her to the arms of her father!" 
               "And does you s'pect she keers as much for you as you does for her?" asked the other. 
               "Oh, yes, I cannot doubt it, after the evidence I have received!" 
               "Then," rejoined the sagacious woodman, "what does you s'pect her life 'ud be wo'th to her ef you was dead, hey?" 
               "True! true! she would be miserable!" sighed Henry. 
               "Then don't talk about dying, like a sick calf, younker, fur whar's the use?" 
               "Still, Tom, you must save her first-promise me that you will!" 
               "Ef you could git away too, Harry, it would all be right!" 
               "Oh, if I could!" 
               Tom mused, and remained silent for some time. At length he seemed to start, as if with a happy thought. 
               "I've got a idee!" he said; "but may be it's like a good many more I've had in my time-not good for nothing!" 
               "What is it?" asked Henry. 
               "You knows you is some on finikies, hey?" 
                
               "Drawing-sketching-you mean?" 
               "Yes, pictur' finikies." 
               "Well?" 
               "Wall, what become of all them as you had?" 
               "I do not know. They were in the pocket of my hunting-frock, and my first captors took possession of that. Probably they were thrown away." 
               "What become of your coat?" 
               "I cannot say. It was worn a while, and then I lost sight of it. In fact I had enough else to think of besides that." 
               "I don't believe it war throwed away," mused Tom, "and arter them niggers jined these, it mought hev been pitched into the gineral pile." 
               "But why do you ask about it?" 
               "Was your finiky fixings along with the pictur's?" 
               "My drawing materials were." 
               "Wall, you see, Harry, I've got a idee, that ef you could git them things showed up afore the Injuns somehow, so's to make 'em curi's about 'em, and then git 'em to free your hands and you tickle 'em up with some o' thar cussed ugly faces, they mought make a pet o' you." 
               "Tom, it is a good idea!" said Henry, brightening. 
               "Ef you could git your finikies to work a lettle he-yar, and git away from these imps by sich like arterwards, it mought pay up for some of the time you've fooled away afore this!" said Tom, with the satisfied air of a man who was turning a worthless matter to some account. 
               "If I only had my liberty, I could do something with a burnt stick and a piece of bark, even without my drawing materials," said Henry; "and if the Indians would only give me some of their paints and a chance to work, I would soon astonish them." 
               "Nothing like trying it on," returned Tom; "and so s'pose you opens on these yere foot-niggers fust, and sees what you kin do with them." 
               "I hardly know how to begin, but the first opportunity I have I will try," said Henry. 
               He did try with his guard; but as they could only understand and speak a few of the most simple and common English words, and as his hands were bound so that he could make no explanatory gestures, he did not succeed in getting them to comprehend him, and again became terribly depressed with grief and despair. 
               "Shagh!" grunted Tom, in one of his efforts to raise his spirits; "never say die, man! whar's the use? I tell you thar'll so'thing turn up, or else I'll swaller myself!" 
               The Indians kept steadily on, over a rough section of the country-up hill and down-through thickets and open woods-now and then crossing a small creek or stream, and never once halting for rest till the sun was within an hour of the horizon. Then they tethered and put their horses to graze, and the most expert hunters flew off in different directions rections to shoot game, there being but little meat left and that not in the best condition. By dark the hunters had all returned, bringing with them a sufficient quantity of venison, some bear meat, and also some corn, which had been collected from a field they had chanced upon. A large fire was now kindled, and soon the savages were in good humor over what they considered a feast. 
               When they had finished their own meal, they unbound their prisoners again and offered them all they could eat. It was now that, taking advantage of his liberty, Henry addressed them in the most simple words he could find, accompanied with appropriate gestures, describing his power of drawing, not only scenes but faces. They did not altogether comprehend him at first, but they understood something-enough to excite their curiosity to know more; and taking advantage of this favorable impression, he advanced to the fire, selected the stick best suited to his purpose, drew it forth, put out the blaze, and, using the charred end on the inside of a large strip of bark that he found lying on the ground, with a few artistic strokes, sketched a rough but unmistakable outline of the whole savage group. It was a mere rude delineation, which rather suggested to the fancy than brought to the view; but it surprised and delighted the Indians, who (not being now in council and required to keep up an austere dignity) expressed their wonder and admiration freely, and desired the artist to proceed and give them something more of the same kind. 
               It now occurred to Henry that his coat might possibly be among the pile of clothing they had been bringing along as a part of their plunder, and that possibly some of his former sketches and drawing materials might be in the pocket still, and so by words and signs he made the savages understand enough to grant him the privilege of searching. To his great joy he found his coat, thus proving that his captors had preserved it even during their hurried flight and had afterward thrown it among the general stock. He eagerly thrust his hand into the pocket-but, to his great disappointment, found nothing there-and he was about to lay the garment down, with a pang of sorrow, when he heard something like the rustling of papers, and discovered a bulky mass between the outer cloth and the lining, at the bottom of one of the skirts. Instantly thrusting his hand back into the pocket, he still found it whole; but near it was a rent in the lining, through which, in his haste, when on the little island, he had probably dropped the articles. Quickly pushing his hand through this, down to the bottom of the skirt, he now, with inexpressible joy, because of his hope of ultimate freedom, drew forth a bundle of his pictures, with two or three pencils and some white paper. Neither the drawings nor the paper were in a good condition, for they had been somewhat damaged by the long time they had remained submerged in the waters of the Licking; but still they would answer his purpose; and when he showed them to the Indians, they evinced a delight, in looks, gestures, and words, that perfectly satisfied him. Among these sketches was the one, not quite finished, which he was drawing at the time he first discovered the Indians who subsequently became his captors; and the sight of that beautiful scene, with the recollection of his dear Isaline, now filled his soul with such emotions as made his brain reel and his whole frame quiver. Among these sketches, also, was the one of the night-duel, with the so-called Phantom leaping down from the tree in pursuit of Hampton, and this interested the savages very much. They readily guessed at the meaning of the mysterious figure-for one of the chiefs said to the artist, putting his finger on it as he spoke: 
               "Watchemenetoc! Devil!" 
               "Yes," said Henry, tapping his own breast, "and I saw it!" 
               Having examined all the pictures, with such signs of approbation as might have flattered a more ambitious man, the savages intimated that they wanted to see him do something new; and though his hands were somewhat swollen and sore, from the manner in which they had been corded, he was not slow to comply with their request. 
               He selected the principal or oldest chief, and made a sketch of his face and figure by the fire-light; and with such success that it was immediately recognized by all the warriors; who were so delighted that they laughed, and tapped Henry on the shoulder, and grunted out the English word "Good!" which they many times repeated. 
               The chief was quite proud of the drawing, and carried it around in triumph, and then each of the others wanted to have his likeness taken in the same way. 
               Henry drew two more of the head warriors, or chiefs, with quite as much success as the first, and then signified that he was very much fatigued and sleepy. 
               Though the savages would gladly have kept him employed all night, they now forbore to press him any further, but gave him his supper, and treated him with something like respect. They were evidently highly pleased with him, and already the idea of adopting him had begun to take the place of burning him; and when he signified his wish to lie down, they seemed to hesitate about securing him in so ignominious and cruel a manner as before. They finally, after a brief consultation, pointed to a spot in the centre of the camp, and permitted him to lie down without any bonds at all, though some half-a-dozen warriors stretched themselves out on every side of him. He had no opportunity to exchange any further words with Tom; but he managed to get a glance at his friend's eye, and saw by its gleam that the old woodman was highly delighted with his success thus far. 
                
               Tom, too, was treated with more leniency than before-for instead of having his hands bound behind his back, a ligature was merely passed around each wrist, and the other end of each cord fastened to the wrist of a warrior on each side of him, so that the slightest movement of his arms would draw upon theirs and give them timely notice-while, on the contrary, Hampton was as effectually and painfully secured as on the previous night. 
               When the camp had finally become still, Henry pretended to fall asleep, though never wider awake and with all his senses more keenly on the alert. He had already, he felt, made a great stride toward freedom; and he was now resolved, if there should be any opportunity for escape, to take advantage of it at whatever risk. He listened to every sound and noted every breath, his heart the while beating wildly with hope and fear. 
               About midnight, as near as he could judge, he gently raised himself to a sitting posture and looked over the still forms of his foes, stretched out all around him. The fire had gone down, the night was cloudy, and everything seemed favorable to his escape, provided he could get beyond the sleeping warriors without disturbing them. But though wildly eager for liberty-even more on Isaline's account than his own-he could not bear the thought of leaving behind him his faithful friend Tom-for the anger of the savages at his escape might be vented on the brave woodman and his life be sacrificed ficed; and yet for both to get away, under the circumstances, seemed next to an impossibility. If Tom were free of his bonds, it would be a different matter; but what chance was there that he could liberate him without rousing some of the usually light sleepers? And yet he was tempted, strongly tempted, to make the dangerous attempt. He knew where Tom was lying-only a few feet divided them; but then, between the two, were several grim warriors; and how hope to pass over them without disturbing them? and how set his friend free, even if he should reach him? If he only had a knife! But then why not have one? since every savage on either side of him had one in his belt. 
               With this thought and this hope, Henry quietly sunk back to his place on the ground and stretched himself out at full length as at first. Then he stole his hand, very slowly and softly, to the belt of the nearest Indian, and, with a wonderful delicacy of touch, felt for the weapon. When at length his fingers came in contact with what he sought, he fancied he could hear his own heart beat; and as he slowly, slowly, slowly drew forth the sharp steel, he fairly held his breath. At last it was in his hand, and the savage had not stirred; and then what an earnest prayer of thanksgiving he breathed; and how fervently he prayed that God would aid him to accomplish a purpose of which the holiest angels must approve! Then he sat up again and looked around him in the dim light; and still finding all quiet, he slowly rose to his feet and began to step over the sleeping bodies with the greatest care. Now some two or three of the savages turned over, with the peculiar grunts or groans of disturbed sleepers, and Henry stopped, with his heart in his mouth. His purpose though was fixed. If discovered, he would fly-bound away for his chances in the dark, surrounding wood, come life or come death! But no one discovered him. Stealthily his feet were carried over the prostrate forms, and silently brought down beside them, till he reached Tom, who quietly lifted and nodded his head, to show that he was awake and saw him. Here was the critical point-now was the critical moment. If he could only liberate Tom, and both gain the wood, then farewell to Indian captivity, even though death should menace in a thousand different forms. He bent down over his friend, with his knife in his hand. He felt carefully for the cord on one side, found it, and severed it. One arm was free, and that arm was instantly raised and the knife grasped by Tom. Henry understood him, yielded up his weapon, and glided away. Just beyond the circle of sleeping warriors, the young artist paused and looked back. His heart beat almost audibly as he saw a shadowy figure gliding toward him; and the next moment his very soul was thrilled with joy as he felt the cordial pressure of Tom's hand in his. 
               Both were free, thank God! both! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               THE BACK TRAIL. 
               STEALTHILY and silently gliding away together, as if one unspoken thought were actuating both, our two friends put some fifty yards between them and the Indians; and then Tom stopped, threw his brawny arms around Henry, and almost hugged the breath out of him. 
               "You done it glorious, boy, and I'd like to yell out my feelings!" he whispered. 
               "Don't do it, Tom! for why incur needless risk?" returned Henry, warningly. 
               "Risk be blowed," rejoined Tom, "with us he-yar in the woods and so much the start of them niggers! I arn't afeard of risk; but I've got another reason. We've got to hev a couple of guns and some hosses. Whar's the use agwine afoot, like a couple of white beggars, hey?" 
               "Oh, Tom," said Henry, somewhat nervously, "do not forget the fearful danger we must incur if we attempt such a thing! We have recovered our liberty almost by a miracle, and it would be flying in the very face of Heaven not to make use of it now!" 
               "That's jest what I thinks!" answered Tom, with the perverseness of a bold, stubborn fellow. "Ef we cl'ars out now, and don't use our chances, whar's the use of heving 'em? Harry, you done it glorious!" he pursued, giving the young man another regular bear hug; "and ef ever I says ary thing more agin your fool finikies, jest feed me on turkey buzzards till I get sense. Wagh! woofh! wagh! How you tickled up the old paint-faces! Lord! ef I only could squat down he-yar and yell it out!" 
               "Tom, Tom, my dear friend," said Henry, in a reproving tone, "you seem to forget where we are, and what dangers still surround us!" 
               "No, I don't, Harry; but I never knowed you so skeered afore." 
               "Because you never saw me, Tom, when I felt such a weight of responsibility resting on my soul. Think of Isaline, Tom-think of Isaline!" 
               "That's a fact, Harry, and I guvs up the laughing business to onct." 
               "Come, then, let us hasten away from here before the Indians miss us." 
               "What! without guns or hosses? and them so near?" returned Tom. "No, sir, younker-I can't do it! See he-yar, lad-why didn't I cut the throats of them devils as I war bound to, arter I'd got the knife, hey?" 
               "Because you would have periled the safety of us both!" replied Henry. "I hope you did not even contemplate anything so rash!" 
               "I'd a done it," pursued Tom, "only for one thing -I knowed we'd git the hull camp up arter us, and we'd not git nary hoss, and you knows I has a hankering that way." 
               "Tom, my dear friend," returned Henry, "do not, for Heaven's sake, drive me wild with any insane freak of yours now! You have seen me suffer-but you know little of what I have suffered after all. How I have retained my senses, is more than I can understand; but the good God has spared me and given me my freedom, and you should be the last person in the world to peril it!" 
               "Look a he-yar, Harry," returned Tom, "I sees you is making a mistake about me, and I'm agwine to put you right. You've got your freedom, haint you?" 
               "So far I have-yes." 
               "Wall, what else you got?" queried Tom. 
               "I do not understand you, Tom." 
               "No, I sees you don't; and I'm agwine to make you, ef I kin. How does you s'pect we is agwine to make our tracks through the wilderness, and come it over the devils we is arter, ef we don't hev some way to ride as well as them? and so'thing to fight with and kill game with, hey?" 
               "But we had better make use of our freedom, and trust the rest to that kind, watchful Providence that has so far protected and preserved us!" 
               "I've not got nothing to say agin Providence and all that," returned Tom, in a matter-of-fact way; "but of Providence haint got no objection, I'd rayther hev a gun in my hand and a good hoss under me-yes, sir! Woofh! whar's the use?" 
               "So would I rather have a gun and a horse, Tom, if we could get them, but I fear the attempt would result in our destruction." 
               "You didn't use to be afeard, Harry." 
               "Nor am I now, Tom, afraid for myself merely; but, for Heaven's sake, remember what we have at stake! and what we are periling every moment we remain here! Think, my dear friend-only think for a moment-what will become of the colonel's daughter-of poor Isaline Holcombe-if we be captured again!" 
               "That's jest what I does think on," persisted the other, "and I don't intend the niggers shall hev us ag'in-no, sir! See he-yar, Harry-ef you don't want to risk it, let me try it alone! I'll be powerful keerful; and ef I haps to raise the camp, jest you put out and make long tracks, and leave me to sarcumvent the Injuns in my own style!" 
               "No, Tom," said Henry, firmly, "I will not desert you like a coward. If you are resolved to go back, I will go with you and share the danger, for danger there will be. And now tell me, plainly and briefly, what you hope to accomplish?" 
               Tom explained in a few words. As the Indians were all asleep, and sleeping soundly, he thought he could venture back to the nearest and abstract a couple of their guns, which were lying on the ground along side of them, and get off without waking them. Then he and Henry could repair to where the horses were tethered, select two of the best, mount them, and escape in the darkness, even should the whole camp then become alarmed. 
               "The most dangerous part of the exploit will be in securing the guns," said Henry; "but if you are resolved upon the venture, so be it, and let us set about it at once!" 
               "That's your tork!" returned Tom; "and jest you come along, nigh up and handy like, so's I won't miss you, and leave me to git the guns; and ef I haps to raise a skeer, we'll put off together as we is and let the rest go. I don't see no extra danger in't, Harry." 
               With this our two friends began, slowly, stealthily and noiselessly, to creep up to the nearest Indians, Tom taking the lead. The night, in the wood where they were, was very dark. This would favor their escape in case of alarm, but at the same time it rendered it very difficult for them to distinguish the forms of the sleepers. When near enough for his purpose, Tom laid his hand upon the arm of Henry, as a signal for him to stop, and then crept forward alone. For a minute or two Henry held his breath in fearful expectation; and then, to his great relief and joy, he perceived the dim, shadowy figure of Tom creeping back to him, with two muskets resting on his shoulder. 
               "I could hev killed the sleepy dorgs easy," he said, in the lowest possible whisper-a whisper that could not have been heard a foot from the ear of the listener-"but I thought as how they mought screech, or so'thing, and so I didn't, though the old knife war itching to be into 'em!" 
               "No, no, Tom, let us do nothing rash!" returned Henry, in the same low, guarded manner. "God be thanked you have got away so far with all you sought! and now let us steal off to the horses." 
               "Not quite yit, Harry," rejoined Tom; "I've forgot so'thing. Wagh! shagh! fool that I war! Whar's the use of the guns without powder and ball, hey? I've got to go back for them." 
               "Oh, Tom, be contented with what you have, and not risk your life again!" said Henry, fairly trembling at the thought of another perilous venture into the very jaws of death as it were. 
               "Whar's the use?" grumbled Tom, with dogged determination; "guns won't shoot without powder and ball. I'll fotch 'em, never you fear. The niggers has got thar horns and pouches fastened to 'em-but I've got a knife as kin cut 'em cl'ar in two jiffies. You stay he-yar, and take keer of the guns, and I'll be back in no time." 
               Henry would have remonstrated further, only that he knew it would be useless, and so he merely said: 
               "Be careful then, Tom! oh, for the love of God, be careful!" 
               Tom crept away again, and for another two or three minutes Henry awaited his return with his heart in his mouth. He listened intently, breathlessly, for every sound; and once, when the sudden howling of a neighboring wolf came borne to his ear, he started and trembled with the first impression that it was a noise in the camp. All grew still again, and shortly after he was rejoiced at seeing the dark figure of Tom creeping back to him. 
               "I've done it, younker!" was the triumphant whisper of the old woodman; "he-yar they is; and now we're ready to put out for the hosses and let these yere devils snooze on. When they wakes in the morning and finds we arn't thar, they kin take thar mad out o' Hampton, and be - to the hull caboodle of 'em!" 
               Only for prudential reasons, Tom would have indulged in a loud, boisterous laugh, at his wonderful success in what he called his "sarcumvintion of the snoozing niggers;" and even as it was, the thought of the trick he had played them, caused him to lie down and shake his sides, though no sound issued from his lips. Henry, as we know, was, for many urgent reasons, most fearfully anxious to be gone, and to him the present mirth of Tom appeared ill-timed and almost cruel. 
               "Come," he said, bending down and putting his mouth to the ear of his rough friend, "are you not forgetting, in your unseemly mirth, that the colonel's daughter is even now in the hands of cruel, murderous villains?" 
               "Right, Harry!" returned Tom, at once starting up in a serious mood; "I'm a rigerlar beast to forgit that poor gal! Now then for the hosses, younker, and then we'll make some tracks as these yere devils can't foller!" 
               He rose to his feet, with all due caution, took one of the guns, and glided away in the direction of the tethered animals, Henry following close behind him. 
               The horses were found all near together, about a stone's throw from the Indian camp. They had fed to their satisfaction on the rich, rank grass of the charming spot, and most of them were now lying down. Unknown to our friends, two savages had been set to watch the animals; but these fellows, overpowered with drowsiness, had fallen asleep at their posts. Fortunately both Tom and Henry proceeded here with the same silent caution which had already given them so much success. Most of the beasts had been ridden with halters instead of bridles; but there were some half-a-dozen of the latter, which had been stolen from the whites; and these were found in the general pile, where all had been thrown down together, and which our friends happened to stumble upon at the very first. Selecting two of the best bridles, which they did rather by feeling than sight, they glided in among the horses, some of which started up and began to snuff and snort in a rather alarming manner. The noise woke up the guard, who spoke to the animals in their native tongue, and was the first intimation our friends had of their dangerous proximity. Henry, in view of the vital importance his escape might be to Isaline-still thinking of her rather than of himself, except in so much as his own safety might affect hers-now trembled like an aspen; but Tom remained perfectly cool, though he was not a little alarmed. Fortunately our friends were already among the horses, where the Indians could not perceive them in the thick darkness, and both had the judgment and presence of mind to keep perfectly still, till the nearest animals, having smelt of them to their satisfaction, ceased to show any signs of fear. Then Tom quietly and noiselessly cut the tethers of all near him, and slipped the bridles upon two that he judged to be the best for a race, for speed alone was what he now required. This done, and with the bridle-reins of both in his hands, he began to feel secure, and, as he afterward expressed it, "didn't keer a continental copper how soon the red-nigger camp mought git its back up." 
               "Harry," he whispered, "I'm agwine to hev a lettle fun he-yar, and do so'thing for our safety too. Jest you hold these yere hosses, whilst I cuts all the ropes; and when we goes, we'll skeer off the hull caboodle, and let the cussed imps hev a hunt for 'em!" 
               "Be careful that the Indians don't see and fire on you then!" returned Henry, who knew from experience how useless it would be to remonstrate with his companion against one of his whims. 
               Tom immediately set about his design; and though the space occupied by the horses was not large, it was nearly a quarter of an hour before he returned to the side of the impatient Henry and announced that all was completed. 
               "Now then, younker, we're ready to guv 'em the dodge-so up with you!" he said. 
               Henry, as may readily be believed, was not slow to obey an order he had so long and tremblingly waited for, and almost the next moment he was upon the back of a high-mettled beast and beginning to feel as if he were really breathing the air of freedom. Tom was longer in mounting, for his animal suddenly became very restive; but he shortly succeeded in throwing himself upon his back; and then, as if he could no longer restrain his pent-up feelings, he gave one of the loudest and wildest yells ever heard in that region-a yell that was enough to scare the living if not to waken the dead-and which went echoing and re-echoing far away among the surrounding hills. It frightened the beasts, alarmed the guard, and roused up the camp; and the next minute there was a scene of the wildest confusion-horses running, Indians yelling and firing at random, and Tom shouting and laughing, as with his companion he dashed swiftly away. 
               For the first five minutes the flying fugitives might have been traced by the shouts, yells and laughter of Tom, who could not contain himself. 
               "Go it, old paint-faces-waw! haw! waw!" he shouted; "go it, you infarnal old sculp-locks-waw! haw! waw! How does you like finikies by this time? Didn't we come it over you beautiful! you - lazy, cantankerous, snoozing old hounds! Thought you'd got us, didn't ye? and then wakes up to find we'd got you-waw! haw! waw! Burn us, will ye? Make red-niggers o' us, will ye? Not ef we knows ourselves-no, sir! Thar's that beauty Hampton for ye, that went to ye for the love o' the thing-s'pose you tries it on to him! Whoop! wagh! shagh! whar's the use?" 
               Thus he continued, while dashing away through a rather open wood, till the stumbling of his horse pitched him off over the animal's head and put an abrupt termination to his excessive hilarity. 
               "Good heavens, Tom! are you hurt?" cried Henry in alarm, who was riding close enough to be aware of the accident almost as soon as it happened. 
               "S'pect my skull arn't smashed nor my neck broke!" muttered Tom, in a rather doleful tone, as he slowly gathered himself up, and tried his limbs, to see if they were all sound and whole; "but this yere arn't the best way to git off a hoss, I'll sw'ar." 
               "You may be thankful it is no worse!" returned Henry, reprovingly; "and I hope it will be a warning to you, not to conduct yourself in so wild and boisterous a manner!" 
               "Ef you is agwine to preach," growled Tom, "I'll go back and stop with the Injuns till you gits through. Whar's the use? Who put the finikies into your head, to use 'em agin the savage imps, hey?" 
               "Come, come, my brave friend, don't be angry with me now!" said Henry, in a tone calculated to allay the irritation of the rough borderer. "I admit I owe my liberty, if not my life, to you; but there is so much at stake even yet, that I must be pardoned for asking you to be serious and reasonable now and assist me with your advice." 
               "Wall, thar, younker," rejoined the mollified Tom, "it's all right-straight as a loon's leg-and we'll not say no more about it. I war tickled though, Harry, and I couldn't help it, to think o' how we'd sarcumvented them hellyuns, and how the old greasy paint-faces ud look at one and t'other, and sw'ar in Injun about the way we'd put out without axing leave." 
               "Well, now then, Tom, that we are away, what is best for us to do?" anxiously queried Henry. "What I want to do is, to rescue Isaline Holcombe in the shortest possible time; but how to find her-how to seek for her-that is the point! Where shall we begin? Oh, God! to think how many unknown miles stretch between us! and what an awful demon has her in his power! I must not think-I must not-or I shall go mad! I must act, act, act-all the time act-but how? Oh, Tom, my dear friend, aid me with all your experience, your wisdom, your knowledge! for I am almost as helpless as when I was a bound prisoner in the hands of the savages." 
               "Harry," replied Tom, penitently, coming up to Henry and grasping his hand, "it war right down beastly in me to be a laughing, like a old fool, with you in sich misery; and ef I does it ag'in, may I choke with a green persimmon! I'll do all I kin fur you and the colonel's darter-God bless her sweet, purty face! but afore we kin make a start arter her, I s'pects we've got to wait fur daylight." 
               "That is hours, Tom-hours!" cried Henry, with a lover's wild impatience; "and every minute is an age while she remains in such hands! Oh, Heaven of mercy! can nothing be done to-night? Think, Tom-think-and suggest something! something! something!" 
               "Look-a he-yar, Harry, my poor feller, and see how things stand!" said Tom. "The poor gal war tuk away last night at dark-" 
               "Oh, God preserve her!" ejaculated Henry. 
               -"And sence then," pursued Tom, "we've ben tramped over a heap o' country." 
               "Nobody better than I knows every painful step!" groaned Henry. 
               "Wall, we've got to go back over that thar same ground ag'in-foller the trail back'ard-else how'll we come to the p'int whar she war stole off?" 
               "True! I see!" 
               "And how's we agwine to do that when it's so dark a feller can't tell hisself from a burnt stump?" 
                
               "Can we not find the right direction, and make some progress toward the last night's camp?" anxiously inquired Henry. 
               "I don't reckon as how we kin, Harry. I'm some in the woods, I'll allow; but I don't exactly know whar we is now, and I can't see the p'ints of the hills to make it out. You see we left rayther sudden and come he-yar-but whar? We're not fur off from the Injun camp, but I've got to hev daylight to find our back trail." 
               "Then nothing can be done till morning?" groaned Henry. 
               "I'm afeard not," answered Tom, "'cept we goes on a bit and gits furder off from the Injuns." 
               "Do you think they will attempt to pursue us?" 
               "I reckons not-leastways they can't do it hossback till they cotches thar runaway beasts-and it's my opine they won't try it he-yar: on thar own stamping ground it mought be different." 
               "Well, my friend," sighed Henry, "you must do what you think best. However painful it may be to wait, I must bow to fate and submit all to your superior judgment." 
               "It won't be a great while till morning," said Tom, "though it'll seem a good while to wait; but I don't know nothing better. I reckon we'd best go on a piece furder and stop-for ef we gits too fur, it'll bother us to know whar we is and find the trail we want." 
               In pursuance of this plan, Tom again mounted his horse, and the two proceeded slowly through the wood for about a mile, descending into a valley and ascending a steep hill, on the summit of which they came to a halt, and there remained through the hours, that seemed like ages to Henry, till light once more banished darkness from the scene. 
               As soon as it was light enough to see clearly, our friends took an eager survey of the landscape spread out before them. 
               "I knows whar we is now," said Tom, "for I al'ays notes the p'ints when I travels. D'yer see that ar' tallest hill over yon, with a big rock on top, and a few trees standing up cl'ar agin the sky?" 
               "Yes, yes, Tom-I see!" 
               "Wall, in the holler this side, ar' whar we come along yesterday, purty much down in the mouth, and thar we'll find the trail." 
               "But the Indian camp, Tom-where is that?" 
               "Can't see it from he-yar, case it's down in a holler, right over behind that ar' hill you sees to the right o' us." 
               "Then we were going right away from our former trail?" 
               "Some'at; and ef we hadn't a stopped, we'd a got twistified round, so's we'd a had a good deal of bother to git ourselves right." 
               "Well, now then to get upon that trail-which of course will be as easily followed as a road, on account of so many horses having passed over it-and then to fly back to our previous camp with all possible speed!" said Henry, preparing to remount the horse which he already held by the bridle. 
               "I s'pect that's the tork!" replied Tom, examining his musket and ammunition, and calculating the chances of being able to find and kill some game for food-for he was one of your fellows who had no partiality for travelling far on an empty stomach. "I wonders ef this yere old thing 'll go off and hit a beast right afore your nose!" he pursued. "Agh! ef I'd only thought to go over to the pile whar the niggers had put our rifles, I'd a done so'thing decent and Christian-like! Shagh! whar's the use?" 
               "No use now, Tom, in wasting these precious moments in regrets for what we did not do!" returned Henry, impatiently; "but rather let us be thankful to God for what we did accomplish, and make the best use possible of our present circumstances! Come, come-why delay another moment here?" 
               "That's a fact," replied the other, "and I'm with you to the death!" He quickly remounted his horse, and added: "Foller me, and I'll take you round so's we'll strike the trail about three mile from this." 
               "You will not miss it, Tom?" 
               "I never misses nothing, younker, when I knows the p'ints!" was the sententious rejoinder of the experienced hunter and scout. 
               Away they dashed, on their high-spirited beasts, riding as swiftly as the rough nature of the ground would permit. In less than an hour they struck the trail of the previous day, and rapidly followed it back toward the camp from which Isaline had been taken. 
               As the day wore on to noon, Tom began to think seriously of his empty stomach; but Henry, loverlike, thought only of the rescue of the fair being who was all the world to him. What was food to him-what was life even-unless Isaline could be saved from a fate worse than death? He would have gone on, and on, day and night, if necessary and possible, with never a thought for himself, until it should have been forced upon him by sinking nature; but Tom was no lover, and had no intention of feeding on air, for even one entire day, if he could possibly find anything more substantial. He was anxious to rescue Isaline, and would have risked his life for her against any living foe with a bare chance of success; but he had no idea of starving himself in advance, merely for the hope of reaching her a few minutes sooner. The horses, too, from having been ridden fast over rough ground, were now sweating and panting and showing signs of fatigue, and Rough Tom Sturgess was not the man to forget his beast. So at last, on reaching the foot of a steep hill, the only one that now divided him and his companion from the camp-ground they were seeking, he pulled up his horse and said: 
               "Harry, hold up, and say ef we're agwine to noon this side of the hill or t'other?" 
                
               "Noon, Tom?" repeated Henry, with a look of surprise. 
               "In course we've got to stop and rest a bit, younker, and me and the hosses has got to hev so'thing to eat; ef you kin live without it, you kin beat us; but I've got a holler in me you could dance a jig in, and I wants to fill it." 
               It was finally agreed that they should continue on to the camp-ground, for Henry was eager to see if the trail left by the horse of Methoto, and subsequently by Blodget and his Indians, was still clear enough to be easily followed, as much of his hope of successful pursuit would depend upon that. 
               In less than an hour they reached the eventful place, and Henry fairly trembled with emotions excited by a return to the spot which he had first beheld as a bound and helpless prisoner, and where he had seen the idol of his soul borne away from him by a human beast. His first act, on reaching this scene of such painful remembrances, was to leap from his horse and make an eager search for the trail of Methoto and Blodget; and when he found it, and saw it was possible to follow it, he became so much affected, that he leaned against a tree and shed tears, the first that had filled his eyes since parting from her he so devotedly loved. 
               "Don't cry, Harry!" said Tom, sympathetically. 
               "Thank God that I can!" returned Henry; "for my brain has all along been on fire, and my heart ready to burst, and this is the first relief I have felt. Oh, Tom, this trail can be followed, and who knows but we shall find her yet?-find her and save her!" 
               "In course we shall, my lad-in course we shall-or else whar's the use of guving the cussed savages the dodge and coming back he-yar in sich a hurry? In course we'll find her and save her-for haint I all along told you thar'd so'thing turn up and fotch it out all right?" 
               On further examination of the trail, it was found to be too obscure for following on horseback; and then the question arose as to what was to be done with the animals, for Tom did not want to lose them altogether. It was finally decided that they should be unbridled and set free, and the chance be risked of finding them again in case they should be needed. This being settled, and the horses led away to a quiet, grassy spot, and the bridles concealed in an old hollow log, our two friends immediately set off on the trail of the villains-Tom remarking that, as he was now afoot, he would be as likely to find game in that direction as any other. The trail not being fresh, was in many places so obscure that it became slow, tedious work to make it out; and the impatient Henry, who would have flown on the wings of the wind to the rescue of the being he so devotedly loved, was compelled to toil on at a snail-like pace. Once, where it entered a small stream and was lost, an hour was consumed in finding it; and just at the point where it was recovered, Tom was so fortunate as to get a shot at a deer and kill it. Then more time was lost in kindling a fire and cooking a portion of the animal-for Tom declared he would not go another step till he should have "filled his holler." 
               Thus the day wore away, and Henry groaned in spirit when at last another night shut in the scene and put an end to his search for many a long hour. 
               "Oh, Father in Heaven, support me and aid me, and deliver her into my hands who is more to me than life!" he prayed. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               OVER THE CLIFF. 
               IT would be worse than useless to attempt a portrayal of the feelings of Isaline Holcombe as she found herself being borne away by the dreadful Methoto. She could not have described them herself, because there are certain sensations of horrid despair for which language has no adequate expression. Fancy yourself being carried off by a demon into outer darkness, and you have the nearest approach to what she experienced that can possibly be given. She had screamed out in her agony of horror, and then had become silent, though not unconscious. She knew and felt and thought rapidly, with a thousand recollections of the past crowding upon her every moment; but hers was the passively physical state of awful dread and uncertainty of one standing on the drop of the scaffold waiting to be launched into eternity. Away and away they sped through the forest, with its gathering gloom of advancing night, Methoto holding her with arms of iron and urging onward his rushing beast. She heard the yells of his pursuers for a time, and prayed they might be successful in recapturing her-for far better, she thought, to be in the hands of savages and near him she loved, than alone in the power of the strange being who was bearing her she knew not whither, nor to what doom. But as night drew on, even this poor hope died out-for the sounds of pursuit gradually grew distant and then ceased altogether-and Isaline felt that nothing but God's mercy could save her. 
               "Squaw girl mine!" now muttered Methoto, as if to himself, with his strong arms pressing her even closer to him. 
               It is one of the mercies of Heaven, that hope, phnix like, often springs into new life from the very ashes of despair; and so was it now with poor Isaline, in this her darkest hour of trial. Her spirits had sunk to the last degree at which consciousness could be retained, and for a time she felt utterly prostrated and helpless-as if she were nothing but a piece of dull clay in the hands of a fiery potter. Then came back, as a ray of light gleaming in upon a sea of night, a slight gathering of courage, and a faint renewal of hope, each strengthening the other into new and active life. She was alone with this man, she reasoned-who, dark and brutalized though he might be, was still human and swayed by selfish passions, such as govern most men, however they may be concealed or displayed-and why not use her only weapon of self-defence, and play upon his feelings for a righteous purpose-the protection and salvation of herself? Why had he snatched her away from all others and deserted his companions forever? Was it not because of a strong, wild passion he had conceived for her? too selfishly barbarous to be dignified by the holy term of love, and yet not unlike it in some of its effects! Then why not make use of this passion-which, if left to its wild course, would destroy her-why not make use of it and mould it and control it to save herself? She had once before tried her powers of fascination on him with the success she sought, and why not again? As he had fled from the Indians in a way that would most probably preclude forever a return to them, might she not persuade him to seek out some of his own race and color, and thus get herself into the hands of men strong enough to take her from his possession and restore her to her father? or if not this, might she not succeed in keeping herself from harm till some opportune moment should arrive for escaping from his vigilance? 
               With this worthy object in view, poor Isaline, with her very soul racked with anguish at the recollection of the terrible events that had been crowded upon her within the last few days, prepared to play a part at such total variance with her feelings that she even shuddered while she contemplated it. Summoning all her faculties to her aid, she at length spoke the name of Methoto, in a low, quiet tone. 
               "Oogh!" grunted the white savage. 
               "Where are you going?" asked Isaline. 
               "Run away from Injun!" was the answer, in a tone indicating some surprise, for evidently the question was not expected. 
               "You will not harm me, Methoto?" said Isaline, in the same quiet way. 
               "Me no hurt squaw girl!" was the reply. 
               "Will you not tell me then where you are going?" 
               "Me don't know-get heap away from Injun." 
               "The Indians have already given up the pursuit, I think." 
               "May be so Injun follow trail to-morrow." 
               "Then we had better go to some station, where we can be protected!" said Isaline. 
               "No un'stand much speak Englee!" was the reply. 
               Isaline repeated her suggestion in even a more simple form. 
               "Methoto 'fraid white man hang um." 
               "If Methoto will treat me well, and do me no harm, I will say to the white men they must not harm Methoto." 
               "Oogh! squaw girl mine!" said the other. 
               "Yes, I am in your hands; and I can say to the white men that Methoto has been kind to me; and then they may not hurt you, but give you handsome presents." 
               "No want present-want squaw girl live Methoto!" 
               "Well, could I not live there with you better than here?" 
               "May be so white girl run away again!" said the suspicious white savage. "Best stay in wood, guess!" 
                
               "But how can we live in the wood? We must have something to eat." 
               "Me got gun-shoot heap." 
               "But I must have corn as well as meat." 
               "Me get heap corn for squaw wife." 
               "Where can you get corn?" 
               "Me go steal um." 
               "But we must have a house to live in." 
               "Me go where house white squaw see when run away." 
               "That is a great way off, and we cannot get there to-night." 
               "Much ride fast all night." 
               "But it is dark now, Methoto, and I am afraid the bushes will hurt me: they often strike against my face." 
               "Oogh! so me show!" said the other, bending Isaline over toward the neck of the horse as he spoke, and then putting his own head down near hers. "So bushes no hurt!" he pursued, urging his beast at the same time to greater speed. "Much ride so heap fast, no hurt!" he added. 
               "But where are you going, Methoto?" repeated the poor girl, with a feeling of despair. 
               "Much run heap, then stop!" he said. 
               Isaline now felt there was nothing more she could say or do at present, and so she remained quiet and silent, permitting matters to take their own course, but praying Heaven to guide her to some point of safety. 
                
               Away and away sped the panting beast, under the trees and through the thickets, up hill and down, going she knew not whither, but swiftly putting mile after mile between her and him to whom her soul went out in a great agony of yearning sympathy and love, and whom she had left a bound and helpless prisoner in the hands of cruel savages and might never behold again with mortal eyes. Oh! the agony, the unutterable anguish, of that long, dismal, painful ride! 
               Methoto did not pretend to guide his horse. It would have been useless attempting to do so, for the beast could see much better than himself. He did not seem to care whither the animal went, so that he kept on and on, and put mile after mile between him and the savages. It was a heavy burden the poor beast was carrying at such a rapid pace; but though he foamed and panted, Methoto gave no heed to his condition, and still urged him forward, taxing his strength to the utmost, and seeming to care for nothing but his own selfish purpose. 
               "Oh, Methoto, you will kill me!" at length groaned poor Isaline. 
               "Me no hurt squaw girl!" replied the white Indian, mistaking the meaning of his fair prisoner. 
               "Why do you not stop? at least for rest?" said Isaline. 
               "Bime-by stop!" grunted Methoto. "Get much heap away from Injun!" 
                
               The horse soon after entered a small stream and stopped himself to drink. 
               "Water good break trail!" said Methoto, as the idea occurred to him, that here, by this means, he might baffle pursuit. "Oogh! water much good fool Injun!" he pursued. "Us go heap 'long water!" 
               He waited till the panting beast had drank his fill, and then guided him slowly down the bed of the stream, the water of which was only a few inches deep, but the footing rough and uncertain. He kept on in this way for a mile or more, and then said, with a sort of laugh: 
               "Guess Injun have heap hunt now!" 
               He then turned his horse to the opposite bank, and again urged him forward through the wood, as uncertain about where he was, or whither he was going, as Isaline herself. 
               At last they ascended a short, but rather steep, hill or ridge; and just as they fairly reached the top of it, the wild, terrifying shriek of the Phantom was heard ringing through the forest. Isaline was startled, but Methoto was scared. As superstitious as any of the savages, he believed it to be a demon of darkness; and remembering what the Indians had said concerning whoever should attempt to harm Isaline-and remembering, too, the misfortune which had overtaken Hampton for doing far less perhaps than he was doing now-he suddenly felt his heart sink, and began to tremble like a coward. Instinctively he jerked out his tomahawk and struck the horse a violent blow on the flank. The beast, already snorting with fear, made a wild leap forward, and the next moment attempted to recoil on the verge of a precipice. Too late-the momentum was too great-and, after hanging poised for a bare moment, over he went; and riders and horse went down-down-far down-upon the rough and stony earth below! 
               The noble brute struck with a dull shock; and then he himself sent forth a shriek more wild and terrifying than that which had been the primary cause of the disaster. He shrieked and struggled for a few moments; and then, uttering a long, heavy dismal groan, remained still in death. 
               And his riders? how was it with them? 
               Isaline lay on one side of the dead beast, and Methoto on the other. They had both struck with a shock, and a rebound that had sundered and sent them different ways; as if Nature herself, abhorring the late union, had here asserted her great law of repulsion and parted them forever-separated the dark, guilty man from the sweet, innocent maiden. 
               Both lay still. Were they both dead? was all over with them? Had their mortal existence already closed and eternity already opened upon their immortal being? 
               For a short time after the last expiring struggle of the beast, both lay there, upon the hard, stony earth, near the rippling plash of water, in the dark gloom of night, motionless as the huge rocks above them. 
               Then there began to be signs of life in one. Methoto stirred and groaned-stirred and groaned again-and then, slowly and painfully, raised up his head and body-a ghastly sight if he could have been seen-his body all bruised and his face all bloody. Slowly he turned his face around and tried to pierce the gloom. He could not see far enough to comprehend his situation. To the left and above him rose the high cliff over which he had fallen-to the right and a little below, stretched out a dark river-and before him lay the dead body of his horse, with perhaps another dead body, a human body, a little beyond. He put up his hand and felt of the cuts and bruises on his head, wiped the blood from his face and eyes, and then attempted to get upon his feet. He made the effort, shrieked and fell back. Miserable wretch! the punishment of Heaven was now upon him! Both of his legs were broken, and one was fearfully shattered and crushed! 
               The shriek of Methoto seemed to rouse up Isaline. She uttered two or three low moans, and then raised her head and looked wildly and fearfully around her. She evidently did not comprehend all at first-for she said, as if speaking to herself, putting one hand to her forehead: 
               "Where am I? where am I?" 
               Methoto groaned, but Isaline did not heed. 
               "Ha! what is this?" exclaimed Isaline, raising herself still more, and looking wonderingly at the dead beast, which lay between her and the white savage. "Ah, yes, I remember now! That strange, terrible man was carrying me off, when we went over some awful precipice-down, down, down-Heaven only knows where! Am I alone? has he gone and left me? or has he been killed by the fall?" 
               Methoto groaned again. 
               "Ha! what is that?" 
               "Me killed!" groaned the white Indian. 
               "Is it you, Methoto?" said Isaline, getting upon her feet and looking quickly around, till her eyes fell upon him, stretched out beyond the horse, like a black shadow. "Are you badly hurt, Methoto?" she asked, in a tone of sympathy, all her sweet, womanly feelings rising above the remembrance of her wrongs, at this knowledge of distress, and going up to Heaven like a living prayer. 
               "Oogh! me killed!" groaned the sufferer again. "Water! water! water!" 
               The shock of the fall, which had partly stunned her, together with her overstrained feelings, both before and while she was going down, as she believed, to certain death, had brought on a temporary swoon, or state of unconsciousness; and this, and a few slight bruises, were, through the mercy of that Providence in which she had so much faith, the only injuries our sweet heroine had received. She, therefore, without difficulty, walked around to where Methoto was lying stretched out in the most agonizing pain, and stood beside that dark man of crime like an angel of light. 
               "Squaw girl no hurt Methoto-me heap sorry!" said the poor wretch, in a piteous tone, evidently thinking he must say something to appease the anger of her who now, by the reversed condition in which they were placed, had it in her power to avenge her own wrongs. 
               "If you are sorry, Methoto," said Isaline, kindly and solemnly, "may the Great Spirit forgive you!" 
               "Me heap sorry!" groaned Methoto. "Squaw girl forgive?" he asked, with eager earnestness. 
               "You probably acted according to your nature and the light you had received, and I will let the past go and do what I can for you, now that you have met with such fearful retribution!" answered Isaline. 
               Methoto only partly comprehended her, and quickly repeated: 
               "Squaw girl forgive?" 
               "As you understand it-yes!" replied Isaline. 
               "Me love squaw girl heap!" 
               "You must not talk so to me!" said Isaline reprovingly; "our natures are too far asunder for that!" 
               "Me no un'stand much speak." 
               "You must not talk to me of love!" repeated Isaline; "I do not like to hear you. I cannot love you; but I will do what I can to help you now. Where are you hurt?" 
               "Leg broke! broke! broke!" groaned the other. "Water! water! water!" 
               "I hear water near us," said Isaline, kindly, "and I think I see a river, but I have no means for bringing it to you." 
               Methoto thought of his cap, made of the skin of a raccoon, which was lying by his side; and handing this to Isaline, he said: 
               "Fill water!" 
               Isaline hurried down to the stream, dipped it full, and returned in haste to the groaning sufferer with about half of it, the other half having leaked out on the way. Methoto seized the rude vessel with both hands, and almost poured the remainder down his throat. 
               "Good!" he grunted. "More! more!" 
               Isaline went again, and still again, before Methoto became satisfied. 
               "Can I do anything more for you?" asked the noble-hearted girl, seeming to forget herself in her sympathy for the sufferings of one who had in effect, if not in intent, proved himself a cruel foe. 
               "Oh, me killed!" groaned the other. "Where me go?" 
               "Alas, poor man, I cannot tell you-I know not where we are myself!" replied Isaline, now trembling at the thought of her own lonely, unprotected condition, and recalling, with a terrible pang, the still more awful condition of him she loved. 
               They had ridden for hours-they had ridden mile upon mile-and yet, strange to say, they were now less than a league and a half from the Indian camp they had left! Without a guide, the poor dumb beast had taken by chance a long, round-about course, and had at last fallen over one of the precipitous cliffs of the Kentucky River. 
               While poor Isaline stood before Methoto in harrowing perplexity, and the latter lay writhing and groaning with pain, that most dismal of all sounds, to be heard at night when abroad in the forest alone, the howl of a prowling, hungry wolf, came borne up against the light breeze and made Isaline shudder. Soon after, the first howl was answered by another in a different direction; and then by another, and still another; and every minute the trembling maiden fancied the dismal sounds drew nearer, as if the smell of blood had tainted the whole atmosphere and was bringing these ravenous creatures to their feast. 
               "Oh, merciful Heaven, we shall have the wild wolves upon us!" she exclaimed in terror. 
               "Where gun?" asked Methoto, quickly, as if in alarm, and lifting up his body with his hands. 
               "I do not know-I have not seen it!" answered the trembling Isaline. 
               "Me drop-squaw find-quick!" 
               Isaline began a hurried search, getting down on her knees and feeling all around with her hands. She spent some five minutes in this manner, and yet met with no success-the howling of the wolves meantime sounding oftener and nearer, as if they were gradually collecting together and approaching the fated spot where the dead beast lay. 
               "Oh, my God! we shall be torn to pieces at last!" she exclaimed, wringing her hands in terror. 
               "Squaw girl find Methoto gun!" cried the now frightened white savage. 
               "I cannot find it, Methoto!" almost gasped Isaline. "I have felt all around, on every side, and it is not here! Oh, Heaven, what is to be done? The wolves are coming nearer and nearer. There! hark! that one was not far off! Oh, Father in Heaven," she prayed, with clasped hands and upturned eyes, "Thou who hast in Thy holy wisdom preserved me through so many perils, vouchsafe me some deliverance now, that I be not torn to death by these wild beasts!" 
               "Must go water!" cried Methoto, beginning to drag himself toward the river. 
               At that moment, while the dismal voices of the gathering wolves were filling the souls of Isaline and Methoto with terror, the strange, wild, prolonged, quavering, and seemingly unearthly shriek of the Phantom, came thrilling down from above, as if it might be the agonized cry of a lost spirit, or an avenging demon. 
                
               For a moment Isaline stood speechless, as if paralyzed, and Methoto uttered a wild, terrified yell. 
               The wolves howled louder and nearer, and the Phantom or Demon shrieked again. 
               Isaline felt as if her senses were leaving her, and Methoto forgot his pain in his terror. 
               Again the wolves howled, and again the Unknown shrieked. 
               It was as if Pandemonium were coming to earth. 
               Finding again the use of her limbs, Isaline sprung to Methoto and cowered down by his side. Poor girl! it was the only shadow of protection that occurred to her almost distracted mind. She felt as if she must be beside something human, or else lose her senses. 
               "Must get river! must get river!" groaned the terrified Methoto, making a desperate struggle to drag himself forward by his hands. 
               "Here, I will help you all I can!" cried Isaline, starting up and seizing one of his arms. "Far better to drown than to be torn to death by wild beasts!" 
               "'Fraid Devil catch um!" gasped the wounded white savage, more fearful of the shrieking Evil Spirit, as he supposed the Unknown to be, than of the hungry wolves, which were not likely to attack a human being at that season of the year, especially with other less dangerous food so near. 
               The water was only a few feet distant from the base of the cliff, and, assisted by Isaline, Methoto made a terrible effort to reach it, dragging his crushed and broken limbs over the stony beach, with such excruciating pain as almost to deprive him of his senses. 
               The water was not deep along the shore, and Methoto soon reached and dragged himself into it, still assisted by Isaline, who waded in with less fear of danger there than from the beach where the approaching wolves would soon be gathered. 
               And where they were soon gathered indeed; for, looking back, she presently beheld fiery eyes and shadowy forms, and heard the most terrific and savage growls, as they leaped in together upon the carcass of the unfortunate horse, and began to rend it in pieces and devour it with the wildest, maddened fury. It was a sight calculated to shake the stoutest nerves and make the bravest heart quail; and how poor, unprotected Isaline could look upon it and not faint with terror, was a mystery to herself. But she had of late been through so many perils, and seen so much of the terrible and horrible, that unconsciously to herself her keen senses had become somewhat dulled, like one who has borne great physical pain so long as to feel far less acutely than at first. 
               Had Methoto been the man he was before he met with the accident that rendered him more helpless than a child, and been armed with his trusty rifle, he would not have feared to encounter the formidable pack of wild beasts alone, but now he was terribly frightened, and wanted to get away from the awful scene. 
               "Much get in river-you draw-get heap away!" he said to Isaline. 
               She understood him to mean that he would like to get into deeper water and be drawn far down the stream. 
               "I am afraid to venture in any further, lest I miss my footing, get beyond my depth, and drown!" she replied. 
               "Me go-you stay land!" he rejoined. 
               "But I cannot aid you if you get beyond my reach." 
               "Me fix um!" he pursued, producing a thong of deer-skin, of some ten or twelve feet in length, which he carried about with him as an article often needed in his forest life. 
               As he could use his hands and arms, he quickly made an end of this fast to one of the latter, and gave the other end to Isaline, who was to move along the beach and keep him from being carried off by the current while floating along down the stream in deep water. 
               Just as this arrangement was completed, and while the ravenous wolves were snarling and fighting over the dead body of the horse, which they had more than half devoured, both Isaline and Methoto were still more amazed and terrified by a strange and novel sight. 
               There was another wild, fearful shriek of the Phantom, followed by a great commotion among the wolves, which began to scatter in different directions, as if they were being assailed by some superior animal. In another minute not one of the beasts was to be seen, but in their place a shadowy figure, like a human being, which glided down toward the trembling Isaline, carrying in its hands, or claws, or whatever they were, something that looked like a formidable club. She would have screamed in her terror, but she was speechless; she would have fled, but she had lost the power of motion. As for Methoto, he lay in the shallow water, perfectly helpless, looking at the Apparition with open mouth, dilated nostrils, suspended breath, and glaring eyes. Both seemed to feel and know it was the dreadful Unknown of the forest; but neither had the power to get away from it: they were literally spell-bound. 
               It glided up to Isaline and stood before her, face to face, its bright eyes looking directly into hers. It was only star-light, but she could see enough to convince her it was the same fearful Creature she had first beheld in the Indian camp, with its short, smooth hair completely covering it-face, arms, hands and body. It stood before her in silence, and looked right at her for quite a minute, she still conscious and staring back, but feeling as if she had suddenly been turned into marble. Then one hand of this mysterious Thing was placed upon Isaline's face, and brought slowly down over it, and then up and down again, over her head, and around her neck and shoulders, and down about her waist, where it seemed to fondle and press, and draw her up nearer, like the arm of affection. Isaline felt her hair rise and her blood turn to ice; but she could not have moved or spoken then if her soul's salvation had depended on it. And yet, as if this were not enough to kill her with terror, there now came a wonderful and mysterious transformation. The hairy hands of this Mysterious Thing were suddenly carried upward to its own head, which was the next moment apparently lifted off and put aside; and in its place was seen a face-a strange, white, human, girlish face-with two bright eyes still looking straight into hers, and seemingly charming her like the eyes of a serpent. 
               Methoto had seen something of this, but dimly, and yet enough to excite a feeling of such absolute terror that he sent forth a wild, despairing shriek. 
               Instantly the Unknown started back, grasped its club, whirled it aloft, and turned to him, still retaining its white, human face in its proper place, and holding its brown, hairy face and head in its hand. 
               "Devil, go leave me?" shrieked the terrified Methoto, in the Indian tongue, and making a desperate effort to throw himself further back into the river. 
               The Apparition advanced into the water and bent down over him. 
               Methoto yelled, and felt at his belt for a weapon. He found his knife still there, whipped it out, and, raising up his body as far as he could, made a thrust at the object of his dread and fear. Like lightning the thrust was parried by a downward blow of the club of the Phantom; and the knife, by a strange fatality, was driven deep into the bowels of the wretched man, inflicting a mortal wound. 
               Methoto sunk back, with a wild groan, the Phantom uttered a horrible shriek, and poor Isaline swooned and fell. 
               When morning once more dawned upon that tragic scene, it displayed the ghastly sight of a dead white man upon the beach, clad in skins, half in and half out of the water, its livid face contorted and upturned, and its rigid hands clutched in the gravelly soil, as if the spirit had been wrested from the body by a convulsive spasm: a bloody knife lay near it, a rifle further up the beach, and, close under the precipitous cliff, the mangled and half-eaten body of a dead horse. Overhead the early vultures were flapping their filthy wings, screaming forth their discordant notes, and gathering to the horrid feast, which they had already scented from afar. The dark, jagged rocks rose frowningly above the awful scene, the dark river swept along with its dull ripple and dismal plash, the breeze seemed to moan as it floated timidly by, and no motion, nor sound, nor life was there, save only such as made even death more horrible. 
               Where was the strange Unknown? 
               Gone! 
                
               Where was poor Isaline Holcombe? 
               Gone! 
               Had they gone together? Had the one borne off the other? Would either ever be heard of more? 
               Had you asked the rocks, the woods, the waters, you would have heard only the solemn moan: 
               "Gone!-Gone!-Gone!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               HOPE IN DESPAIR. 
               THE night that Isaline was carried off by Methoto-that night in which she was exposed to all the perils and suffered all the horrors recorded in the previous chapter-it has been shown that Henry, owing to a heavy stupor, caused by excessive mental anguish, slept soundly; the second night, after a hard day's march, during which he made his escape from the Indians, it has also been shown he did not sleep at all; the day that followed, on which he and Tom went back on the main trail and set off on the other, proved one of great excitement, perplexity and fatigue; and it will be remembered we left him, with the third night closing in, in a state of great mental disturbance and depression, praying God to support and aid him. 
               While Tom had cooked his venison, and eaten it like a hungry man, laying in a store to supply the present and some portion of the uncertain future, he had had great difficulty in persuading Henry to touch it at all; and it was not in fact till the old woodman had positively declared that "ef he didn't fill his holler, like a decent Christian, he'd see him hanged afore he'd go a step furder with him arter the gal," that he had done anything like justice to his physical requirements. 
               The night alluded to was not cold-in fact the weather all along had been unusually warm for the time of year-but the air, after sunset, was moderately cool; and as our friends had no blankets now, and only the little clothing on them which the Indians had not stripped off, Tom thought they had better have a fire. 
               "I don't s'pect that ar' cussed white imp and his red niggers 'll come back on thar own track," he said, "and as thar arn't no others about he-yar, we won't run no risk, I reckons." 
               "Do as you think best, Tom!" sighed Henry, casting himself down and dropping his head upon his hands, as one buried in heavy thought or gloom. 
               Tom collected the materials, and soon the forest around was lit up with the crackling flames. 
               "Agh!" grunted Tom, rubbing his hands with an air of satisfaction, as he squatted down before the cheerful blaze; "this feels good and looks good, and totes me back to old times, Harry, when me and you used to do a heap of tramping." 
               If Henry heard he did not heed, but still sat with his face buried in his hands; and after looking at him for a minute, Tom observed: 
               "Look-a he-yar, younker-whar's the use o' you agwine on in a way that 'll jest spile you fur tomorrow's work, hey?" 
               "I cannot help my thoughts, Tom." 
                
               "Yes you kin. Lay down and go to sleep, and git up fresh!" 
               "How can I sleep, Tom, while I am in such uncertainty about poor Isaline? Even now perhaps she may be suffering such cruel indignities as would make my blood run cold to name!" 
               "And then ag'in she mayn't; and let's sleep on the mayn't, Harry!" 
               "I tremble to think of her in the hands of Methoto! and I tremble more to think of her in the power of Blodget! Oh, Tom, suppose that latter fiend has overtaken her-and that, in the quarrel likely to follow, she has been murdered? or suppose that the decoy has secured her and gone on after the others, and shall succeed in getting her out of the country?" 
               "And so you mought go on s'posing till you died, and whar's the use? It don't make nothing no better, younker-no, sir! Ef you don't lay down and go to sleep, you'll use yourself up; and then s'pose you could save her, and hadn't got strength enough to do it?" 
               "True! true! your advice is good, Tom; but I fear I shall not be able to follow it. Oh, if it were only morning again!" 
               "Ef you'll only go to sleep, like a decent Christian, it 'll be morning in about two shakes of a dorg's tail!" said Tom. 
               "I will do my best," sighed Henry, "for I know the folly of losing my rest as well as you!" 
                
               Soon after this conversation, he laid himself down near the fire, thinking it impossible to lose himself for even a minute. But fortunately he was mistaken. Over-wearied nature enforced her law of restoration, and in ten minutes he was sound asleep, and did not wake till the hand of Tom shook him in the gray of morning. 
               "I told you so, Harry!" said the old scout, with an air of triumph, as Henry started up, rubbed his eyes, and looked quickly and wonderingly around him. "I told you you'd put her through in no time, and you done it beautiful!" 
               "Is it indeed morning?" exclaimed Henry. 
               "It arn't nothing else, lad." 
               "Then let us be on the move and make the most of our time!" 
               "That's your tork, and I'm with you to the death!" said the other. "I knowed you'd want to be a tramping with the fust light, and so I've cooked and eat my breakfast, and toasted enough of meat besides to last us all day." 
               "God bless you, Tom!" cried Henry. 
               "Yes, I wants to see that ar' gal cl'ar, purty nigh as bad as you does, and so I've ben up and fixed everything fur a start. Ef I looked as ef I tuk it kind o' easy last night, I didn't; but I knowed thar warn't no use o' talking and worrying, and so I made the best on't. Warn't I right?" 
               "Unquestionably you were, my brave friend! and I must thank you for my feeling wonderfully refreshed by a long, sound sleep." 
               As soon as it was light enough to see the trail, they set off at a fast walk, Henry feeling in rather better spirits, because of his night's rest and the long day he had before him for active work. They pursued the trail for several hours, without any incident worthy of note; when, after ascending a hill which commanded an extensive view, Henry remarked: 
               "Tom, does it not strike you that we have been a long way round, and are now coming back to something near where we started?" 
               "It has so'thing of that look, I allow!" replied the other, glancing at the position of the sun, which was dimly visible through a thick haze. 
               "Methoto must have ridden on a venture in the dark, letting his horse take what course he pleased!" was the correct conjecture of the young artist. 
               "That's it to a dot!" coincided Tom. 
               "I am so fearful that Blodget and his Indians have overtaken him, wrested Isaline from his clutches, and gone off on the trail of their friends! If we could come upon Methoto alone, we should be two to one; but if the savages have got her in their power, it will be desperate work to rescue her." 
               "Ef so, we'll hev to dorg thar steps, and lay low, and wait till we kin cotch 'em snoozing!" rejoined the fearless woodman. "Agh! when I thinks how we got away from t'other niggers, I feels as ef we kin do most anything." 
                
               "Oh, God be merciful and send her deliverance!" prayed Henry. 
               Some two hours after this, they came to the stream where, it will be remembered, Methoto broke the trail by walking his horse down the bed of it for something like a mile. Here was unexpected trouble and perplexity. The Indians had been at a loss, and had crossed over, and gone up and down the stream on both sides; and there was such a confusion of steps, going backward and forward, crossing and recrossing, that more than once the impatient lover became almost distracted. 
               "Oh, this is terrible!" he groaned; "to be here doing absolutely nothing, and the sun fast going down!" 
               "Ef we only knowed which way the devil went, we mought find the eend of this afore the Day of Judgment!" grumbled Tom; "but as it ar', Harry, thar's nothing left for it, I s'pect, but to tramp fust one way and then t'other, up and down, both sides, till we finds it!" 
               A trail at the best, unless broad and clear, is a slow thing to follow, because there are so many places where the ground, being hard, takes only a faint impression of the passing steps, even when it is a horse, and none at all when it is a moccasined foot; and then the point beyond, where it resumes, has to be found, sometimes by a slow and careful process of search through the whole vicinity; but where it is intentionally broken off in the water, the case becomes still more difficult, as it is impossible to tell whether the party pursued went up or down the stream, and whether they came out on the hither or thither bank. An hour may be consumed in searching a space comprised in a few rods only; but when, as in the instance under notice, the break of the trail has taken the long reach of a mile, it may require hours of the most careful and skilful toil to discover the point of resumption. 
               Tom and Henry did indeed work for hours, with the most unremitting diligence, before they could find where the horse of Methoto had again struck off through the forest-the search of the party before them making matters worse instead of better; and when at last they did find it, Henry saw, with a feeling of dismay akin to despair, that the sun was only some two or three hours above the horizon. 
               "Oh, God!" he groaned; "I fear it is fated I shall never behold my dear Isaline again!" 
               "Never say die, lad! for whar's the use?" responded Tom. "He-yar we is ag'in-all right, you see!" 
               "But think of the hours we have lost, Tom! such precious hours!" 
               "I knows it; but then thar warn't no help for't, younker. Jest you wait till I gits hold of that white devil, and see ef I don't break a trail fur him as he won't find ag'in in this yere world!" 
               "Ah, Tom, I am fearful we shall never see him nor Isaline again!" groaned Henry. "I did have some little faint hope in the morning; but now that I see this day drawing to a close, and nothing accomplished-only at the most a few miles on a trail that was made in a few hours, after the flight of Methoto, nearly three days ago-I feel the cold, icy hand of despair taking hold of me!" 
               "Whar's the use?" returned Tom. "You arn't agwine to gin in, I hopes, and squat yourself down and make a die on't!" 
               "No, I will go on, and on, till I know the worst, Tom." 
               "Ef it war ary other gal," said Tom, "you'd hev her, sartin as shooting, ef it tuk a month to fotch her; but now you're ready to caterwallup in three days! This yere comes of gitting in what they calls love, I s'pect. Agh! wagh! shagh! I'm powerful glad as I warn't never cotched in no sich - finiky operation-no, sir! Woofh! whar's the use?" 
               They continued to pursue the trail till the heavy shadows of declining day at times made it quite difficult to follow. At last they reached the hill, up which the doomed beast had panted and struggled at the end of his last journey; and on gaining the top of it, and looking down over the fearful cliff, upon the stony beach and the flowing waters of the Kentucky River, Henry suddenly clutched the arm of his companion, and, with eyes wildly glaring with horror, almost shrieked forth the words: 
               "God of mercy! Look there, Tom! look there!" 
                
               Tom turned pale, and every nerve in his strong, hardy frame quivered. 
               "Poor feller!" he said, in a voice made husky by such powerful emotions as he had seldom or never felt before in his eventful life; and he drew the almost frantic Henry back from the dizzy verge and the horrid sight that lay below. 
               A horrid sight indeed, to a lover seeking her who was more to him than all the world beside! 
               The sun, in a crimson glory, was just beginning to sink behind the western hills; but adown a long, leafy slope of forest, and through a kind of rocky gorge, it poured a red, mellow flood of light, that crossed the river like a stream of blood, and fell, with a strange and almost startling effect, upon the white and glistening bones of a horse and man-all that was now left of the beast and his rider. The vultures had been there, the wolves had been there, and nothing of corrupting flesh remained: only the white and glistening bones scattered here and there, in strange confusion-the skull of the man and its massive jaws, with its eyeless sockets and long, white teeth, seemingly looking up and grinning through a bath of blood! 
               What a sight for a lover who believed his mistress had gone down there literally into the Valley of Death! 
               Henry groaned a few times, like one in mortal agony; and then, disengaging himself from the embrace of his rough but sympathetic companion, he sunk down on the ground, clasped his temples with his two hands, and rocked himself to and fro in a fearful silence. 
               "Don't, Harry, poor feller, don't!" pleaded Tom, who felt that his friend had now arrived at a point of grief where he could offer no consolation. "Don't, Harry! don't, poor feller! Whar's the use?" 
               For some two or three minutes Henry continued to clasp his temples and rock himself in silence, as if trying to compress his swelling, throbbing brain, and keep himself from going mad. Then he burst out, in a long, agonized moan, that was frightful to hear. It was a moan that seemed to well up from the very depths of his innermost soul, quiver through every nerve and fibre of his mortal being, and at last find vent in a wail of unutterable woe. 
               "Harry, my poor feller, don't!" said Tom, sitting down by his side and fondly placing an arm around his neck. "Don't, my poor Harry! case it can't do no good!" 
               There came only in response another long, agonized moan, or wail; but this, thank God, was presently followed by a wild burst of tears! 
               "Ah, blessed tears! which in some degree quenched the fire of his brain and saved him from madness! 
               Then he suddenly threw his arms around Tom, laid his aching head against the rough woodman's manly breast, and fairly sobbed forth: 
               "Oh, my dear, good friend, it is all over with her!
                   but we must find her bones and give them Christian burial. I will kneel over them and pray! and you must pray with me, Tom!" 
               "I'll do my best, Harry, I will!" said Tom, brushing the tears from his eyes; "fur your sake, lad, I'll do my best-though I'll allow I arn't much at them kind o' things! I can't put a prayer into ary partikerlar kind of a finiky shape; but I s'pects as how the Lord 'll make out what I means: ef He don't, whar's the use?" 
               "Come, then, Tom!" cried Henry, starting to his feet; "come! quick! for night will soon be upon us, and we must collect the remains before it is too dark to see!" 
               The sun had by this time passed behind the western ridge of hills, and the river and the beach already lay in the first shadow of advancing night. By going upward a short distance, our two friends found a place where they could descend the cliff; and a few minutes later they reached the tragic scene, and began to move carefully and searchingly among the white bones-Henry, pale as a ghost, trembling so that he could scarcely stand. 
               Tom picked up the skull of Methoto, and, looking savagely at it for a few moments, muttered, half aloud: 
               "So, then, you're the devil as fotched all this yere trouble on us, hey? Wall, you're dead and gone-lucky fur you-fur ef I'd a got hold o' you alive, I'd a made you see snakes! Yes, sir! Wagh! bagh! whar's the use?" 
               He threw the skull on the ground, with a look of angry scorn, and continued his search for the skull and bones of poor Isaline, expecting to know them by the size and formation. 
               "It is strange," said Henry at length, in a tremulous tone, stopping and looking almost wildly into the face of Tom, "it is very strange that I have seen nothing yet that looks like her bones!" 
               "Nyther has I!" returned the woodman. 
               "Tom!" gasped Henry, grasping an arm of his companion with both hands, and trembling so that his teeth chattered. 
               "What is it, my poor boy?" asked Tom. 
               For nearly a minute Henry tried to speak before he could articulate another syllable; and then the words came out slowly and gaspingly: 
               "Tom-do you-think it possible-she was not-killed-and has escaped-with life?" 
               "May be so," answered the other, "for she arn't he-yar-nyther body nor bones!" 
               "Oh, Tom, are you sure?" 
               "I've seed every bone he-yar, Harry, and I'll sw'ar thar arn't one of 'em hern!" 
               "God bless you, Tom, for these words! Oh, my God! my God! dare I hope again? Perhaps she was wounded, Tom, and Blodget and his Indians have carried her off alive? Quick, quick, my friend! look, search, and see if they have been here!" 
                
               "In course they has, lad. Didn't we foller the niggers to the top of the cliff? and don't you s'pect as how they'd come down he-yar to see whatsomever they could steal, ef fur nothing else? Whar's Methoto's rifle, powder-horn, bullet-pouch, knife, tomahawk, and them? The wolves didn't eat them, did they? No, sir! Thar's the skins he had on, all torn up in pieces; but whar's the solid things, hey?" 
               "True! true! Oh, gracious Heaven! my brain seems on fire again! Oh, dare I hope? dare I hope? You think, Tom, they may have carried her off?" 
               "Perhaps, Harry!" 
               "Alive, Tom? alive?" 
               "I don't s'pect the imps would carry her off dead." 
               "See what it is, Tom, to pray for one thing and then want another!" cried Henry, almost beside himself with a strange, wild hope. "How I did pray that she might not fall into the hands of Blodget and his Indians; and now I would give half my life to know her living, even if in their power! Oh, to find their trail and follow them! And yet, oh, God! here is another night upon us-a long, long night of darkness-in which we can do nothing! nothing! nothing! Oh, wretched, wretched me!" 
               "Thar arn't nothing for 't, lad, but to wait till morning ag'in!" rejoined Tom. 
               "Oh, how can I, how can I, pass another night in this awful, racking, torturing suspense?" 
                
               "It's powerful hard, Harry!" sighed Tom; "but thar arn't no use of kicking agin what we can't help-no, sir! We've got to do it; and as I don't keer to stay amongst these yere bones, we'll jest climb up the cliff ag'in and start a fire." 
               Henry mechanically followed his companion up to the higher ground, where Tom soon collected the materials and started another fire; and there they passed another night-a most wretched night to Henry, who could not sleep for thinking of poor Isaline. 
               His hope now was that she had been carried off alive by Blodget and his Indians, and that he and his companion might possibly pursue and overtake them; but what would he have thought, and how would he have felt, had he even dreamed that she had been spirited away by the dread Phantom of the Forest? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               STERN RETRIBUTION. 
               As soon as it was light on the following morning, Henry, who had passed a wretched night, began his search for the trail of the Indians, assisted by Tom. It was seen they had indeed been down on the beach, for here and there the print of a moccasin was discovered in the yielding soil; and it was not an unreasonable conjecture, which both were led to make, that Methoto had been wounded by his fall and subsequently killed by the savages, and that Isaline had in truth been borne off alive. 
               "Now then to find their trail and pursue it till I either discover and save her or leave my bones bleaching like those of Methoto!" said Henry, with stern determination. 
               "We've got to fill our hollers afore we goes fur," said Tom, "fur I feels jest as ef I war agwine to cave in." 
               "Always thinking of eating!" returned Henry. 
               "Why that's the only thing as keeps me alive!" said Tom, with the serious air of a savant explaining some new discovery in science: "ef it warn't fur eating, I wouldn't live a month-no, sir!" 
               "Well, you had some meat cooked yesterday morning-will not that do you for the present?" said Henry, with an anxious, impatient look. "As for myself, I care for nothing, except to follow on after poor Isaline, and every moment's delay seems an age to me!" 
               "Meat cooked yesterday morning?" repeated Tom, with a look of startled amazement; "why, what's the feller a thinking on?-he's lost his senses sartin!-as ef meat cooked yesterday morning, 'cept it war a hull ox, could last till now! and me on the tramp at that! Wagh! shagh! whar's the use?" 
               Tom agreed, however, that he would make as little delay as possible, by hunting for something on the way, and so they both immediately set about searching out the trail. It was difficult to find, and cost them the labor of an hour; and when found it was difficult to follow, because it was some three days old, and the light, moccasined foot of the Indians had left no such easily discerned traces as the hoof of the running horse. The general direction, though, was something of a guide, because it was supposed the savages would aim to overtake their companions, and they had certainly taken the proper course for that purpose. By keeping steadily forward, therefore, over places where no impression could be seen, our friends were always fortunate enough to find more traces on beyond, and thus lost but little time. 
               One thing now troubled Henry not a little, even beyond all his other troubles, and that was that no discovery had as yet been made which proved that Isaline was among the savages. Both he and Tom had made a close and careful scrutiny of the trail where it had been found the clearest, and yet had failed to discern any sign or trace of the missing girl. 
               "Oh, Heaven! should this hope prove a delusion, and she not be among the savages after all!" groaned Henry. "Tell me, Tom-tell me truly-what do you think?" 
               "I don't know, younker-I can't sw'ar to nothing!" answered Tom. "Prehaps her purty little foot didn't come down hard enough to leave any mark-jest like them varmints, called fairies, as I've hearn about-and then ag in she mought be some'at hurt, or sich like, and they be toting her on cross-poles." 
               "But if such were the case, Tom, we should certainly have found some indication of it before this-some place where they had collected the materials and constructed the litter-and some place where they had taken it up and set it down. No! no! if she is among them at all, she is not carried, Tom; and my only hope now is, that her light foot has passed without leaving any mark where we have searched." 
               "Wall, all we kin do ar' to push on and try the ventur!" returned Tom. 
               They did push on, as fast as they possibly could, Tom keeping an eye ready for any game they might discover. Before noon he was again fortunate enough to kill a deer; and having eaten of this to satiety, and persuaded Henry to do the same, he did as before, cooked up a few pounds to take with them. 
               The trail of Blodget and the Indians did not lead to the camp where they had parted from their companions, but rather diagonally across the country-they doubtless calculating on striking the trail of the main body further on, which they did. At the point where the smaller trail joined the larger, Tom remarked: 
               "Now we hev cl'ar work, Harry, and we kin go as fast as we like." 
               "Ah! but, Tom, if Blodget's party succeed in joining the main body," sighed Henry, "what chance have we two against so many?" 
               "Not much, I'll allow; but ef we kin cotch up with 'em afore they crosses the Ohio, we kin scout round and make sure ef the colonel's darter ar' amongst 'em; and ef she ar,' we'll know better what to do nor we does now." 
               "Let us hurry on then," rejoined Henry, "and know the worst as soon as possible. Ah! what a long start they have of us! If we could only have known, when we passed over this ground before, all that we know now, how much time we might have saved!" 
               "And had our hosses too, Harry! Agh! I hates to lose them critters, and I've half a notion to go back fur 'em!" 
               "No, no, Tom-we must not risk that delay!" 
                
               "Couldn't we make it up in riding faster nor we kin walk, younker?" 
               "But we might not find them; and only think how much important time would then be lost! No, no, Tom-the matter is not to be thought of for a moment!" 
               "Jest as you say." 
               "By-the-way, Tom," observed Henry, "a new idea occurs to me. When I consider time and everything, I do believe Blodget and his crew struck this trail the very day we passed over it! If so, how fortunate for us that we had passed this point before they reached it! for they might have discovered us first and ambuscaded us." 
               "Woofh!" grunted Tom, with a shrug of his shoulders. 
               The trail now being broad and clear, our two friends pushed on rapidly till near night; when, having ascended a small hill, some distance short of the camp where they had made their escape from the Indians, Tom suddenly stopped, grasped an arm of his companion, and made a gesture for him to keep silent. 
               "What is it?" whispered Henry, after listening intently for a few moments and hearing nothing. 
               "D'yer see that thar t'other hill, right over thar?" pointing a little to the right. 
               "Yes! well?" 
               "Don't you hear nothing?" 
               "No!" 
                
               "I does. Thar's a party coming up on t'other side; but I can't jest make out whether they're whites or Injuns!" 
               "Oh, Heaven! if it should prove to be our friends, who struck across the country here under Billings!" said Henry. 
               "That's what I hopes. Hark! you hears that, don't ye?" 
               "Yes, it was a human voice, but too far off to be distinct. And yet I somehow feel as if it were the voice of a white man!" 
               "Let's creep into the bushes he-yar, Harry, and lay low. Ef it's Injuns, we've got to do some dodging; and ef it's whites, thar'll be time enough to yell when we sees 'em." 
               They stole off to a thicket, about a hundred yards from the trail, and there concealed themselves, and waited with breathless anxiety for the appearance of the party, which was evidently ascending the other hill from the opposite side. 
               In less than ten minutes they appeared upon the summit-horses and men-white men-borderers-the division which, some days before, had struck off across the country, at the time that Tom and Henry, with their ill-fated companions, had pursued the direct trail. It was a sight only to be appreciated by men in the condition of our hero and his friend. It was the welcome sail at sea to a couple of poor mariners drifting helplessly in an open boat. Henry burst into tears; and Tom sent forth a dozen yells, intended for the wildest delight, but which actually startled the approaching party into the belief that they were about to be assailed by a band of savages. 
               "Foller me!" cried Tom, bounding away down the hill like a madman-whooping, shouting, yelling, jumping, and swinging his arms and kicking out his legs in the wildest manner possible. 
               Henry ran too, but he could not keep up with his rough companion. By the time he reached the party, Tom had shaken hands with more than half of the men present, and was still whooping and shouting in the midst of them. 
               They had recaptured the horses stolen from the whites by the savages, some of the men were wounded, and many had fresh Indian scalps attached to their girdles. All this Henry saw, with a wild glance, as he came panting up, and his heart beat strangely. They had evidently met and conquered the Indians, and what of Isaline? A dozen men sprung forward to greet our hero; but his first words, uttered gaspingly, were: 
               "The lady? the lady? Miss Isaline Holcombe? is she with you? have you saved her?" 
               Alas! no one had seen her. 
               Henry felt his heart sink and brain swim. What was all the rest of the world to him? He threw his eyes rapidly over the whole group, and saw that all had dismounted except one man, whose back was toward him. He fancied he recognized the figure, and hurried round to where he could get a better view. He was not mistaken. He beheld the pale face and compressed lips of Charles Hampton. 
               "What does that villain among you here and at liberty?" he shouted. "That is the wretch that brought all our trouble upon us!" 
               He had scarcely spoken, when Hampton struck his horse a violent blow and dashed swiftly down the hill. 
               "What's that, Harry?" cried Tom, whose attention was now directed to the treacherous villain by the words and actions of his friend. 
               "It is Hampton, Tom-there he goes-escaping the punishment that belongs to him!" 
               Quick as thought Tom raised his piece to his eye and fired. Hampton reeled and fell, and the riderless horse went plunging on. 
               "I knowed my time ud come!" said Tom, coolly; "and this he-yar's a better shooting iron nor I gin the old ripscallion red niggers credit fur!" 
               This unexpected and tragic scene created great excitement among the borderers, who, in their previous encounter with the savages, had found Hampton a prisoner, and had rescued and treated him as an honorable gentleman, supposing him to be one, they knowing nothing of his previous deeds, and readily believing the false tale he had told them. 
               Some half-a-dozen of the party now ran down to him, and found him badly wounded-Tom's ball having entered under the right shoulder-blade and passed through the right lung. He breathed with difficulty and coughed up blood. He was still conscious, but could not live. They brought him up to the top of the hill, and he fairly gnashed his teeth at the sight of Henry and Tom. 
               "It was not me you should have murdered, you cowards, but Blodget!" he muttered, chokingly. 
               "And whar mought that devil be found?" asked Tom. 
               Hampton groaned, and pointed with his finger. Both Tom and Henry looked in the direction indicated; and there, not fifty feet distant, they beheld, what they had not before observed, the pale face and cowering form of Blodget, who was standing between two men, with his arms bound behind his back, in the manner he had compelled the prisoners to march with the savages. 
               Tom uttered a fierce yell of savage delight and sprung toward him; but, quick though he was, Henry was before him. 
               "Stand off!" he said; "not a word till I shall have done questioning him!" And then to Blodget, who was now shaking all over, like a man with the ague: "Villain," he cried, "if you want to live long enough to say your prayers, quick! tell me! where is the girl you went in pursuit of?" 
               "Oh, sir-oh, good gentlemen-don't hurt me! don't! for I didn't have anything to do with it-it was an accident, I suppose!" cried the poor, miserable coward, in the most abject, servile tone, which wonderfully contrasted with his language and manner ner at the time he parted from the prisoners at the Indian camp. 
               "Speak out!" gasped Henry, catching hold of Tom for support, and preparing himself to hear the worst. 
               "The girl was killed!" said Blodget. 
               "Oh, my God! my God!" groaned Henry, with a reeling brain. 
               "How does you know that, you imp of the devil?" demanded Tom. "Did you see her dead?" 
               "No, I didn't see her dead," replied Blodget, "but Methoto and his horse went over a precipice, and we found their bones there, and I suppose she was killed too, though we couldn't find her." 
               "Ef you lies about this yere, I'll hev you strung up to the fust tree, you infarnal whelp!" cried Tom. 
               "I don't lie-I'm telling you the honest truth!" returned Blodget. "We hunted all round, and couldn't find anything of her, either living or dead." 
               "Thar, Harry, lad, don't take on so!" said Tom, kindly; "the colonel's darter arn't dead, you see, arter all-no, sir! She's got away alive somehow, and she'll turn up all right yit!" 
               "Oh, Tom, if I were only certain of that!" groaned Henry; "but I have little or no hope now, my friend! I did think it possible she might have been carried off by this villain; but now all is dark mystery! Oh, that I could have died in her place! poor, sweet, loved and lost Isaline!" 
               The adventures of this party of borderers, as told to Tom by one of the number, may be summed up briefly. They had been roaming through the wilderness, without anything occurring of any importance, till they had stumbled upon the trail of the main body of savages, which they had pursued rapidly, coming up with the Indians, or rather in sight of them, one day about sunset. Not having been discovered themselves, they had made their arrangements for a night attack, which had proved successful. Nearly all the Indians had been killed, and their horses and plunder had fallen into their hands. Finding Hampton a prisoner, they had readily believed his trumped-up story of his misfortunes, and had never once dreamed of his being the treacherous villain whose wicked plans and counsels had brought so much trouble upon the country. He had told them how Blodget and his party had gone in pursuit of Isaline, and they had come back on the main trail in the hope of being able to find and destroy them. They had been successful in this also. They had seen the Indians first and ambuscaded them, and Blodget was the only one of his party now alive, and he had been reserved for hanging whenever it should suit their pleasure to give him a forest trial. Having accomplished their purpose, they were now leisurely returning homeward-hoping, by keeping on the Indian trail, to fall in with some of their former companions. 
               When Tom in turn related what had befallen himself and party, great was the excitement and indignation of the borderers; and what he stated concerning cerning Hampton, fully justified him in their eyes for having shot him like a dog rather than let him escape. Some were for hanging Hampton now at once; but others said he would die soon enough if let alone; which indeed proved to be the case; for, in less than two hours after this conversation, his black heart and scheming brain were still in death. The borderers would not bury him, but left his body to the wolves and vultures. 
               That night, while assembled around their campfires, they put Blodget on trial for his life. The affair was conducted with some show of form and justice. Twelve men were selected to act as a jury, and they were to hear the evidence and decide. Tom and Henry were required to give in their testimony, and no other witnesses were needed. The jury took only a couple of minutes for consideration, and the verdict was: 
               "Guilty!" 
               Then twelve men were drawn by lot, to declare what death he should die, and when, and they were to be his executioners. For the first, they decided he should die by hanging; and for the second, that it should be before resuming their march on the morrow. 
               "Between these two points we'll let the prisoner fix the time for himself!" they said. 
               Blodget was nearly dead already with fear-for a more abject, miserable craven never drew the breath of life. When they brought him forward to put the question, his face had a ghastly hue, he trembled and shook till his teeth rattled, and large beads of perspiration stood out all over his face. 
               "You're a heartless, cruel murderer," said one of the twelve, addressing the miserable wretch, "and we ought to string you up at once; but we've decided to let you name any time atween this and sunrise that 'll best suit you to stretch the rope." 
               "Oh, gentlemen-good gentlemen-for God's sake, don't hang me!" cried Blodget, dropping down on his knees. 
               "How about us dancing at your wedding?" asked Tom, who chanced to be one of the twelve drawn. 
               "Oh, that was only a joke-that's all!" 
               "Purty joke, warn't it, you pusillanimous whelp?" growled Tom. "And them sculps you slapped in my face-them was a joke too, warn't they?" 
               "Oh, yes-I didn't mean any harm-and you know I treated you well afterward!" 
               "Oh, yes-I feels proud on't! Wall, you see, we's jest agwine to hang you in joke now-that's all." 
               "But it will kill me, won't it?" asked Blodget, with trembling anxiety. 
               "Wall, it does sometimes kill folks of your size!" gravely answered Tom. 
               "Oh, spare me! spare me! good gentlemen!" 
               "You're worse than a sneaking wolf!" said one of the others; "for that cowardly beast will die game when he's cornered and can't get away!" 
               "Come," said another, "name your time!-any hour you likes atween this and sunrise." 
               "Oh, gentlemen-oh, good, kind gentlemen-oh, for God's sake, don't hang me! I'm not ready to die yet!" pleaded the craven wretch, in the most piteous tones he could command. 
               "If we wait for you to get ready, we'll all die of old age!" said a stern voice. 
               "Name your time, and be quick about it," said another, "or we'll fix it for you!" 
               "Oh, gentlemen, do forgive me! won't you? I'm not ready to die-I'm afraid to die-indeed, indeed I am!" whined the miserable coward. 
               "You warn't afeard to kill my companions, as good fellers as ever lived, and then slap thar bloody sculps in my face, you - cantankerous, ripscallion, slinking hoss-thief!" cried Tom. "Agh! wagh! shagh! whar's the use?" 
               "We're wasting too much time here," said one of the men, "and I reckon we'd best string him up to onct and make an end on't!" 
               "Oh, no, not to-night, for God's sake! good, kind, dear gentlemen-not to-night!" pleaded Blodget. 
               "Shall it be at sunrise to-morrow?" asked another. 
               "At sunrise to-morrow!" cried several voices, without waiting for Blodget to answer; "let it be settled so!" 
                
               And so it was settled. 
               They bound the guilty villain to a tree; but he made so much disturbance in the camp-by crying, complaining, cursing, begging, pleading and screaming-that the borderers finally resorted to gagging, to keep him quiet. 
               At daylight the camp was astir, and the jury of executioners prepared to do their fatal work. They selected a small sapling, bent down the top, and secured it by a rope. To this top they fastened another rope, with a slip-knot at the lower end. Then they dragged up Blodget, more dead than alive, with his hands bound behind his back and the gag still in his mouth, and passed the noose over his head, and fixed the knot under one ear-he struggling, moaning and shaking all over. As soon as all was ready, they formed a ring around him. Then, at a signal, the first rope was cut, and the spring of the tree carried the wretched villain up several feet from the ground, and there held him suspended by the neck. He struggled violently for several minutes, and then gradually grew still in death. 
               At last the damnable villain had met the punishment he deserved. 
               When, shortly after, the borderers resumed their homeward march, they left the body suspended in the air, for the carrion birds to feed on. 
               Sad, silent, drooping, like one who no longer had any object or aim in life, Henry marched on with the rest, till they came nearly opposite the place, though still some miles distant, where Methoto had met his death, when he quietly announced to the party that there he should leave them, as he was going another way. They all knew his sorrow and respected it, and several rough but kindly voices inquired if there was anything they could do for him. 
               "No!" sighed Henry; "I thank you-no!" 
               No one seemed to feel he had a right to question him except Rough Tom; and he, with a look of surprise and anxiety, drew Henry aside and said: 
               "What is it, Harry? what's the meaning of all this he-yar? whar you agwine to now?" 
               "Never mind, Tom!" said Henry, proffering his hand; "never mind, my brave friend! but let me say farewell for the present; and do you go on with the rest and leave me!" 
               "I'll be conscrimptiously ramboozled ef I does!" cried Tom, emphatically. "No, sir! you arn't agwine to come nary sich like dodge over this yere old coon, ef I knows myself-no, sir! Ef you is agwine to put out fur new diggins, I'm agwine with you, and that's a settled p'int! Whew! Whar's the use?" 
               "No, no, Tom-go on with the rest, and leave me to myself! I am a miserable, unhappy man, and no longer fit company for you or any one else! All hope and joy in this world are gone, with my poor, sweet Isaline! and when it shall please God to take me, I shall be ready to go too!" 
                
               "Now, Harry, poor feller, don't say that!" returned Tom, his eyes filling with tears; "don't say that, lad-don't! So'thing 'll turn up yit. The gal haint been seed dead; and it's like she got away, and will come out all right in the eend!" 
               "Tom," rejoined Henry, with melancholy solemnity, "I know you mean well; but why seek to inspire me with a hope in which you do not believe yourself? Could Isaline fall over that awful precipice and not be wounded, even if not fatally? Answer me that?" 
               "But may be she didn't fall over it, Harry!" 
               "Do you suppose, for one moment, she could have got away from the strong arms of Methoto?" 
               Tom looked sadly down, but did not answer. 
               "Oh, my friend, you know in your own heart she could not have got away from Methoto-that she did go over that precipice-and that, if she was not killed at once, she was so badly wounded as not to be able to escape, and was probably destroyed by the same ravenous wolves that devoured her brutal captor and his beast!" said Henry, with choking emotions. "Oh, God! oh, God! what a death for the sweet being I so wildly, devotedly, madly loved!" 
               "But you know, Harry, we couldn't find her bones-nor the Injuns nyther couldn't!" 
               "That is Blodget's story, I know; but he may not have told us the truth. And even granting that she was only so bruised and mangled that she could crawl away, how could she, a poor, unprotected maiden, live in the wilderness? Perhaps, in her fear of the wolves, to save herself from being devoured alive, she crawled out into the river and was drowned!" 
               "You will hev her dead, I sees!" 
               "I would give my life to have her living!" groaned Henry. 
               "But what you agwine, anyhow?" 
               "I am going back there, Tom-back there, to that fatal spot-for there is no other in this world that has any attraction for me now!" groaned the almost heart-broken lover. 
               "And what you agwine to do when you gits thar, poor lad?" 
               "I do not know-die perhaps! If Heaven will only guide me to her remains, I will gladly lie down by them and pray for death." 
               "Shagh! whar's the use?" said Tom. "She war a purty, sweet kind o' gal, I'll allow; but thar's others in the world jest as sweet and purty, Harry!" 
               Henry groaned and shook his head. 
               "No other for me, Tom-no other for me!" 
               "You've got friends in Varginee, Harry, and s'pose you thinks of them!" 
               "It is useless for you to talk to me," sighed Henry, "for the die is cast, my hopes are dead, my heart is with the remains of my sweet beloved-I cannot say in the grave with them-for, alas and alas, they have not had burial! Tom," he continued, grasping the rough woodman's hard, horny hand, and speaking in a tremulous voice, half choked with emotion, "you have been a true and faithful friend to me, God bless you! and while I live I shall never forget you; but the time has come for us to part. I am no longer what I was, and I shall never be the same man again. If you were to go with me, I should only weary you with my grief, and perhaps make you as wretched as my poor, miserable self. Therefore, my brave fellow, go on with the rest, and leave me to my fate!" 
               "I'll be - ef I does!" almost blubbered the true old woodman; "and I'd lick ary other slinking hound what axed me to do it-yes, sir! Woofh! thunderation! whar's the use? Harry, wharsomever you goes, I goes, like your shadder; and I'll stick to you like a tick to a dorg's back! You arn't agwine to git away from me, nohow-no, sir; and the more you tries it on, the wuss you'll make out; so you mought as wall guv up that thar p'int as waste your breath on't! Ef one fri'nd ar' agwine to desart another fri'nd, case t'other fri'nd ar' down in the mouth, and don't feel like laughing and hollering and dancing hoe-cake jigs, whar's the use o' being a white gintleman at all?-he mought as wall be a red-nigger to onct, and grease his face and shave his sculp! Thar, younker, I've said my say out; and now come on, and we'll go and hunt for the gal together!" 
               Henry made no further objections to accepting the company of Tom-for he knew from experience how useless it would be to argue against a point that his resolute, determined, stubborn companion had fully settled upon-and so both took leave of their companions, and struck off together for the Kentucky River, and the scene of that fearful disaster which had filled the soul of the lover with such crushing grief. 
               It should be mentioned here, that both were now suitably clothed again, and provided with comfortable blankets, which had been selected from the stock of plunder taken from the Indians; and both had also got back their own rifles, with plenty of ammunition; so that they were now well prepared for a long stay in the wilderness. 
               A little before night they reached the Kentucky River, and the fatal spot where the bones of Methoto and his horse still lay bleaching; and both went down to the beach and made another careful search for some trace of the lost Isaline; but, alas! with no better success than before. She was gone! she was gone! and every sound that reached the almost heart-broken lover, seemed to sigh, or moan, in his ear: 
               "She is gone! she is gone!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               THE MYSTERY SOLVED. 
               HE who stands upon the mountain top, commands a view a thousand times greater than he who plods along in the valley; and we, who are far above the actors playing their parts in our drama of life, have the power of looking over and beyond their limited vision and seeing the whole as they see a portion. 
               While, therefore, the despairing lover is groaning along in the deep Valley of Gloom-groping forward even blindly-unconscious whither his steps are tending-we rejoice to see he is steadily advancing toward the goal he would willingly give his life to reach. 
               Isaline Holcombe had indeed been borne away by the Phantom of the Forest-carried off in a state of utter unconsciousness-and since then many days and nights had passed, through which she had lived as in a wild and troubled dream-a dream in which she had appeared to be revolving in darkness, and now and then being thrown up from some abyss to a strange, fantastic glimmer of light, only to be suddenly hurled back again to a seemingly deeper depth of gloom and night. 
               The long series of fatigues, excitements, anxieties, sufferings, perils and terrors to which she had been subjected-the long, fearful strain upon her delicate nerves and fine mental faculties-had at last proved too much for an organism as sweetly attuned as the olian harp; and when she had finally, overpowered with horror, sunk swooning at the feet of the dread Unknown of the Forest, there was then no longer sufficient vitality to restore the mental powers to their natural state, and fever and delirium had followed. Long days and nights had passed since then, of which she had no consciousness, except the wild, fever-dream. 
               And where was she all this time? 
               In a cave, among the rocks of the cliff over which she had fallen, and scarcely more than a hundred yards from the fatal spot where Methoto's bones still lay bleaching. 
               Oh! if Henry had but known, while groaning forth his despair, that she was living and within the reach of his voice! 
               And how came she to be there in the cave? 
               She had been borne thither by the Phantom of the Forest. 
               And who had been with her since? 
               The Phantom of the Forest. 
               And what was this dread Phantom of the Forest? 
               Ah! now we come to the unraveling of the mystery! 
               When the wasting fever had spent its force, and consciousness had once more returned to Isaline, she found herself, weak and emaciated, lying upon a bed of leaves and grass, in some dim, gloomy place, surrounded by rocks. She was barely able to lift her head, and she looked up and around in wonder and fear. No living thing was apparently near her. 
               "Where am I?" she murmured; "and how came I here?" 
               Almost as she spoke the words, and as if in response to her question, the narrow passage-way, leading outward to the world of light, was darkened by some moving object, and immediately after the strange and startling figure of the Phantom of the Forest stood before her. 
               The sight of this Apparition recalled the memory of Isaline so suddenly and clearly, that the wonder is, under the circumstances, it did not prove fatal. She instantly remembered how and where she had looked upon this dread Mystery before, and for a few moments her breath ceased, her heart appeared to stand still, and her eyes glared. She felt she was in the power of this fearful Something, and was far from certain to which world she now belonged. Then came the thought, like a light from Heaven: 
               "What is life to me now that I should fear? or death that I should cower before the demons of God's creation? One Great Being made all that live, and His power is over all!" 
               Then summoning all her will and strength and nerve, she raised her head, and fixing her eyes upon the eyes of the strange Object, that had now advanced to her side, she said, with deep solemnity: 
               "In the name of God, what are you?" 
               For a few moments the fearful Object stood passively and silently by her side; and then, what proved to be a hairy mask (but which, in the gloom of night, when seen before, appeared to be another head) was quietly lifted off and put aside, and a bright, girlish face bent over her, and a soft, melodious voice said, gently: 
               "Sweet sister, have you come back to me?" 
               "Merciful God!" gasped Isaline; "what does all this mystery mean?" 
               "For they murdered you, sweet sister," pursued the strange being, "and I have been sorrowing so long!" 
               "Who are you, poor girl?" queried Isaline, beginning to comprehend something of the truth. 
               "I have had such a long, horrid dream, sweet sister!" continued the strange Creature, without heeding the question; "and I am so glad you have come back to wake me! You have been in the land of spirits, I know, for I have seen you so often there; they murdered and sent you there; but you have come back to me now, and woke me from my horrid, horrid dream, and now we will part no more. Our dear mamma-is she well? I do not often see her. She did not come with you, I think?" 
               "Poor girl! God help her! she has lost her reason!" murmured Isaline. "And this, after all, is the fearful Phantom of the Forest, that has frightened so many brave but superstitious men!" 
               "We will not part again, sweet sister, will we?" said the poor lunatic, with a fond look. 
               "No, you shall go with me, poor girl, when I go away from here!" answered Isaline, in a gentle tone, resolved to humor the other's fancy, whatever it might be. "What is your name?" 
               "Don't you know?" 
               "I cannot speak it at this moment; you know we have been long away from each other!" 
               "Oh, yes-so long! so long!" sighed the other 
               "But you have not told me your name!" 
               "Helen. And you are my sweet sister Ellen, you know!" 
               "Oh, yes-I understand you now, Helen!" said Isaline. "But tell me where I am now? and how I came here?" 
               "I brought you here-I was afraid I should lose you." 
               "Where did you find me?" 
               "Among the wolves, I think. You came down among the wolves, didn't you, sweet sister?" 
               "Oh, yes, I remember-the horrid wolves were all around me." 
               "Why did you stay with such beasts?" asked Helen. 
               "I was trying to get away from them!" answered Isaline. 
               "Yes, I came and drove them away." 
                
               "How far are we now from the place where you found me?" 
               Helen did not seem to comprehend this question, and Isaline repeated it. She received no answer, however. The poor lunatic stared vacantly, for a minute or so, and then asked abruptly: 
               "What creature was that with you in the water?" 
               "That was a man who had been carrying me off. What became of him?" 
               "I think he rode away on a whirlwind!" said Helen. "But why have you not talked to me before as you do now, sweet sister?" 
               "Have I not?" 
               "And you would not eat anything! Do you never eat where you have been, sweet sister? I brought you meat and corn and berries, but you would not eat." 
               "I have been ill, I suppose," said Isaline, "and I feel very weak and faint now. Where am I?" 
               "But you drank-oh, you were so thirsty! and I brought you water, water, water, in that little cup, made of leaves. There it is by your side-I made it. And you wouldn't get up after I put you down, and so I made you that nice bed. Isn't it a nice bed, sweet sister? And there you have been so long-so long-so many days and nights!" 
               "Days and nights?" repeated Isaline, wonderingly. 
               She was disposed to doubt the correctness of this statement, thinking it might be, like much of the rest which the poor girl said, an insane fancy; but when she cast her eyes on her thin, wasted hands and arms, she feared it might be true. Where was she? and how would she ever get away? She could not long live there, she was too weak to stand, and the little exertion she had already made in speaking had quite exhausted her. She thought of Henry, who had been carried off to meet a cruel doom, and a keen pang pierced her heart. 
               "Oh, God," she groaned, "have mercy on me and take me to Thyself!" 
               Soon after this she felt a heavy drowsiness stealing over her, and, yielding to it, she fell into a gentle sleep. 
               Fortunately the returning light of reason was beginning to dawn upon the long darkened mind of the poor maniac, and she was now beginning to comprehend something, but could not pursue a consecutive train of thought. Since the dreadful event which had driven her forth, a wild and unconscious wanderer through the wilderness, she had never spoken a rational word to any human being till she had met Isaline; but had roamed up and down the wild forest, sometimes in the day and sometimes in the night, with just enough of instinct to clothe herself in skins and provide herself with food, ever and anon shrieking out her terrible woe. Her history, what is known of it, may be briefly told. 
               About three years before the date of our story, a gentleman, named Mervine-who had once been blessed with a competence, but, through a series of misfortunes, had become reduced to comparative poverty-removed his family to the wilds of Kentucky, and there sought to make a new home. The struggle was a short one. He fell sick and died, leaving a widow and two twin daughters, Helen and Ellen, and a blind negro boy (who had been brought up in the family and taken along with them as an act of charity) to mourn his loss. In less than a year after the death of the husband and father, three Indians and a white man one night attacked the widow's dwelling, burst in the door, and murdered all except Helen, who, escaping through a back window, fled shrieking to the forest. These savages were the Indian father and brothers of Methoto, and he was the white man alluded to; and it will be remembered he gave an account of this very tragedy, in reply to the questions of Henry, on the night that he and Isaline lodged under his roof on the bank of the Licking. And what may seem strange and curious, as showing the mysterious workings of Providence, Methoto owed his death to the very girl whose mother and sister he had helped to murder; for it was her wild shriek that had so startled him and his beast and led to the fall over the cliff; and subsequently, by parrying the thrust he made at her with his knife, that weapon had, it may be said by her hand, been driven into his bowels, inflicting a mortal wound. Thus had fearful retribution come upon him from the right source of justice. 
                
               How poor Helen had lived in the forest for so long a period, through summer's heat and winter's cold, clothing and feeding and protecting herself from wild beasts, must in the main be left to conjecture. It is known that, shortly after the tragedy which turned her poor brain, she had so frightened a couple of hunters that they had fled, leaving a pack of skins behind them, and it is supposed she had carried these off and used them afterward as she required in her own singular way. With the sinews of deer she had fastened these skins so closely around her body and limbs and hands that, with a mask of the same over her head and face, her appearance, when seen in a dim, uncertain light, as Isaline had beheld her, was rather that of some hideous animal than a human being; and when merely glanced at by the superstitious borderers, their excited fancies had changed her into an apparition of terrible form. It is supposed that a sort of glimmering of reason, or instinct, such as most maniacs possess, had led her to protect herself from the wild beasts of the forest by lodging in the branches of trees; and thus it had happened, on several occasions, that her shriek had sounded high in air, and she had suddenly appeared in a manner calculated to increase the fears of the superstitious, who had readily accorded her the form and power of something from the world of spirits. And this was the whole of the mystery, which appears simple enough when explained by natural causes, as all mysteries generally do. 
               For that matter everything is a mystery, from the mighty worlds that swing and roll in space, down to the animated creatures that exist beyond the reach of human vision, though a familiarity with the manifestations of God's thought leads us to regard them with indifference. We cannot explain anything, not even the simplest, except by attributing it to the result of the harmonious working of the law of the Great First Cause, which is itself a still greater Mystery. We know not why we are here ourselves-a wonderful, thinking and acting manifestation-how we came here-how we take on life or lose it! The most we can know is, that certain effects result from certain causes; and all the learning and wisdom of man give him not even the faintest glimmer of conception of cause. Two simple little words, It Is, sum up the whole knowledge of mankind in this respect; and the clown and the savant alike stand confessed in ignorance before the great, dark vail which shuts in the wonderful Mysteries of Jehovah. 
               Helen Mervine had a pretty face and figure, and so much resembled Isaline that they might have been taken for sisters; and this perhaps was the reason why the poor lunatic believed her to be her sister; and as the murdered girl, being a twin, had probably resembled the living one very closely, and as Methoto had been so attracted to the one he saw dead as to renounce his Indian life, it may be this resemblance had had something to do with the wild, rude passion he had felt for Isaline. Helen naturally had a sweet and gentle disposition; and having, as she believed, recovered the dear sister she had so fearfully mourned, she was now in a fair way to regain her reason also. As we have shown, she could partially comprehend what was said to her, though her mental perception was a good deal mixed up with the strange, wild fancies of a disordered brain. 
               While Isaline slept, therefore, she sat quietly by her side, and watched her with the gentle fondness of a mother overlooking the slumbers of her tender offspring; and when Isaline again opened her eyes and looked curiously around, Helen smiled, and said very sweetly: 
               "I am so glad I see your dear bright eyes again!" 
               "Helen," said Isaline, with an anxious look, "do you know where we are?" 
               "Oh, yes-we are here together, sweet sister!" 
               "But we must get away from here, and go where there are others!" 
               "Who are they?" 
               "We must go to some station. Do you not know of any near this place?" 
               "We must not let the wicked Indians catch us!" returned Helen, with a shudder. 
               "Oh, no-Heaven knows I do not wish to be in their power again!" rejoined Isaline. "Here, give me your hand, and I will see if I can get upon my feet and stand." 
               Assisted by Helen, Isaline succeeded, after a great effort, in rising to her feet; and then she saw how utterly incapable she was of performing a long journey through the forest-an unknown journey at that. 
               "Oh, what will become of me?" she groaned: "I am too weak to go away, and I shall certainly perish here!" 
               "Oh, no, not again!" cried poor Helen. "You have died once, you know, sweet sister-murdered you were by the cruel Indians-and if you were to die again and leave me, I believe I should go mad!" 
               "Oh, this will drive me mad!" thought Isaline; "to remain here, in this wretched condition, along with a poor girl who has lost her reason! And then how can I live? I must have food! and where am I to get it? at least such as my weak system can bear?" 
               "Helen," she said to the poor girl, "have you anything that I can eat?" 
               Helen ran to a little hollow among the rocks, which she called her pantry, and brought forth a few berries and some corn. 
               "I did have meat," she said, "but you would not touch it, and so I ate it to keep it from spoiling." 
               "Where did you get it, Helen?" 
               "Oh, the good angels brought it to me, as they often do. I dream sometimes of being very hungry, and think I am going to starve, and then somebody comes and whispers in my ear where I can get food, and I go and find it." 
               "And how do you manage to cook it?" 
               "I always eat it as they send it, sweet sister." 
               "I fear these berries and this corn would do me more harm than good, Helen!" said Isaline. "If I only had some broth!" 
               "Broth? yes!" said Helen, brightening; "that was what we made for poor dear papa when he was so sick." 
               "But we have no meat to make it of, and no way to cook it if we had!" said Isaline, despairingly. "Oh, what will become of me? what, what will become of me? Helen, do you know where we are?" 
               "Why, here!" returned the other, simply. 
               "What place is this?" 
               "Your home, sweet sister: you know we live here together now!" 
               "But is there no fort or station near us? no place where we can find human beings like ourselves?" 
               "I thought we were angels!" replied Helen, staring. 
               "Oh, it is enough to drive me mad!" groaned Isaline. "Here, lend me your arm to lean on, and I will try and see if I can leave this place, for surely I shall die here!" 
                
               With the assistance of the poor maniac, Isaline managed to walk a few steps. 
               "Oh, I am too weak!" she groaned; "and it is folly to strive against fate! Take me back to my rude bed, and let me die here!" 
               "Oh, no, you must not die again!" cried Helen, in alarm. 
               "There is only one thing that can save my life, my poor girl!" sighed Isaline, as she once more laid herself down on her rude couch. 
               "What is that?" asked Helen. 
               "You must go and find somebody to come to my assistance." 
               Helen looked sad and troubled, and wrung her hands. 
               "Won't the angels do?" she asked. 
               "No, the angels will not do in this case, Helen-I must have human assistance." 
               "Is it Henry you want?" asked Helen. 
               "Henry?" cried Isaline, in startled surprise; "what do you know of Henry?" 
               "You have been talking of Henry for so long, and would not call me Helen once!" 
               "Ah! that is all then!" groaned Isaline, her sudden hope as suddenly overthrown. "God help me!" 
               "I wish I could think right!" pursued Helen, with a perplexed and troubled look. "I have had so many dark dreams, that I don't know how to think. Are you sick?" she inquired, with great tenderness. 
                
               "Yes!" answered Isaline, mechanically, feeling it was no longer any use to continue a conversation with one who could not comprehend what she required. 
               "Our dear papa was sick, you know, and he died!" 
               "Yes!" replied Isaline. 
               "But you and dear mamma were murdered by the Indians!" 
               "Yes!" assented Isaline. 
               "I will go for a doctor-shall I?" 
               "Yes!" said Isaline, feeling a heavy drowsiness coming over her again, and now desiring only to be left in peaceful quiet. 
               She was conscious that Helen arose and moved away, and then she fell into a pleasant slumber. 
               Suddenly she was awakened and startled by the report of a rifle, followed by a wild shriek, not unlike that she had heard so many times before; and, a minute after, poor Helen, with the mask on her face, came flying into the little cave from without. She ran up to Isaline and crouched down in terror, and our heroine saw with alarm that she was partially covered with blood, which was still flowing freely from a wound in her arm. 
               "In Heaven's name, what is it? what has happened?" cried Isaline. 
               "Oh, don't speak! don't stir!" gasped Helen, in a wild, startled whisper; "for the cruel Indians are coming to murder us both!" 
               "Indians?" returned Isaline, with a shudder. "Well," she added, a moment after, quite calmly, "let them come: as well die one way as another!" 
               Presently she heard voices, and held her breath to listen. At first she could not distinguish the words, and then her very soul was thrilled with a wild joy and hope. 
               "Whar's the use?" said the unmistakable voice of Rough Tom Sturgess. "I tell you, younker, you mought as wall shoot at chain lightning! fur no bullet won't do no good thar! and ef you goes in, you'll never come out alive, 'cept you does it in a blaze of brimstone! Wagh!" 
               Then there was another voice in reply, and poor Isaline felt as if her soul was leaving her in a wild transport of joy. 
               "What is life to me now, Tom," said the other voice, "that I should fear to risk it here or elsewhere? I will solve this mystery now, or die in the attempt!" 
               For a few moments Isaline struggled to speak, and then she fairly shrieked forth: 
               "Henry! dear, dear Henry!" 
               "Gracious God!" was the wild response. 
               Then there was a rush of steps through the passage-way, and the next moment Henry Colburn stood in the presence of Isaline Holcombe. 
               Heaven had been merciful, and the lovers had met beyond the hour of peril. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               CONCLUSION. 
               IT was a scene for a painter: Henry, wild with hope, standing in the dim light of the cave, striving to pierce the gloom and fix his eyes upon her who had called him as from the grave; Tom stealing up behind him, full of doubt and fear; Isaline, raised to a sitting posture, breathless and speechless, her hands clasped before her and her features radiant with joy; and lastly poor Mary, with the hairy mask still on her face, cowering down behind her and quaking with terror. 
               "Isaline!" spoke Henry, as one would ask some dread question in a charnel-vault, trembling lest he had made some fearful mistake, for as yet he could not see clearly. 
               "Here!" was the gasping response of Isaline, and all she could say. 
               The next moment he was kneeling by her side, clasping her in his arms, and soul was mingling with soul. 
               Oh! the rapture-the ecstasy-of that meeting! The heart has a language of its own, which the tongue cannot utter. There are emotions of joy and grief too deep for words. For a long time not another other syllable was spoken by the lovers; but there were deep sighs, and tears of joy, and a feeling as if eternity had given back the loved and lost, and Heaven had come down to earth. 
               At last, when Henry drew back his head to gaze once more upon the sweet face of the idol of his soul, he started as one who receives a sudden shock. 
               "Gracious Heaven! what is this?" he cried. 
               "I have been ill, dear Henry-very ill, I suppose-though I have no remembrance of it." 
               "Oh, my poor darling! and I not with you!" 
               "But you are now, dear Henry, thank God! And yet the Indians, dear Henry-the Indians-are we not in danger from them now?" 
               "No, my poor darling, they have all been destroyed." 
               "Wiped out, marm, like you'd rub out a chork mark!" now joined in Tom, who all this time had stood like one in a maze, looking curiously at the lovers one moment, and fearfully at the dark, dread Something, still cowering down behind them, the next. 
               "Ha! is that you, Tom? my brave, true friend!" said Isaline, extending her hand. 
               "I'm your fri'nd, marm, thar's no doubt about that," replied the old hunter, coming forward, "and I'd a kicked up my heels and yelped out my feelings afore this, 'cept I've been looking to see us all carried off in a blaze of brimstone by that thar devil behind you!" 
                
               "Oh, my poor Helen!" cried Isaline; "that I should have forgotten her all this time! and she wounded, and perhaps bleeding to death!" 
               "Merciful God!" exclaimed Henry, springing to his feet, his memory also recalled, and gazing with horrified amazement upon the poor lunatic; "is that strange object a human being? and a woman at that?" 
               "My poor Helen!" said Isaline, turning round to her, throwing an arm around her neck, and herself lifting off the hairy mask. 
               Both Henry and Tom uttered wild exclamations of surprise, and the former sprung to the poor girl, dropped down by her side, and cried, in an agitated voice: 
               "God forgive me for firing at her and wounding her! I hope not mortally! Quick, girl! where are you hurt? Let me stanch the blood and bind up your wound!" 
               "The poor creature has lost her reason!" said Isaline. 
               "Oh, my dear, sweet sister, save me!" cried Helen, throwing her arms around the neck of Isaline and hiding her face against her throbbing heart. 
               "There, my poor child-my sweet sister-there is nothing to fear now-for these are my friends, come to save us both!" said Isaline, in a tender, soothing tone. 
               Tom meantime had been like a man petrified-staring wildly, with open mouth-not knowing whether to credit his senses or not. At length he drew in a long breath, and blew it out like a trumpet blast. 
               "Heaven and 'arth! what's all this yere? A gal, arter all, that we've been skeered out of our senses at?" 
               "Nothing but a poor, harmless lunatic!" replied Isaline. 
               "A what?" cried Tom. 
               "A poor girl who has lost her senses!" explained Henry. 
               "Then I s'pect I'd better put out and soak my head fur a - fool!" roared Tom. "Whe-e-w! thunderation! wagh! shagh! git out! go away! let me spile! whar's the use?" 
               He kept on with his exclamations, while Henry hurriedly proceeded to examine the wound he had himself inflicted. Fortunately his aim had not been steady, and the ball, sped at the life of the supposed Phantom, had passed through the fleshy portion of her arm, without severing an artery or doing her any serious injury. He cut away the covering of skins around it, and bound it up with a strip torn from the lining of his own coat-poor Helen, now apparently satisfied that she had nothing more to fear, looking on quietly, and even smiling. When at last all was completed, he said: 
               "There, my poor girl, I thank God I did you no greater harm! and for even this I will make amends." 
                
               "You ought to be my brother," replied Helen; "but then I never had a brother." 
               "I will be a brother to you, poor child!" returned Henry. 
               "This is my sweet sister!" pursued Helen, looking fondly at Isaline and caressing her. 
               "Indeed I am," replied Isaline, "and will ever be." 
               "Woofh!" grunted Tom. "S'pect I'd better be your father to onct!" 
               "How about the fire and brimstone?" asked Henry, playfully. 
               "See he-yar, younker, you kin blow!" replied Tom; "but I s'pect you'll allow as I warn't the only white gintleman as war skeered!" 
               "Indeed you were not!" smiled Henry; "and perhaps you were not the only one who saw fire and brimstone, blue blazes, and several other things!" 
               "Shagh! whar's the use?" growled Tom. 
               "Never mind, my brave friend!" rejoined Henry; "the best of us are liable to mistakes; and I fervently thank God that we have all made them in some things, and that all has ended so happily for us!" 
               He then turned to Isaline, and put many tender inquiries concerning her present condition and her wonderful escape, and was thrilled with horror at her recital of her fall over the cliff and the fearful events that had followed. 
               "And has this poor girl since been able to keep you supplied with such food as you could eat, dearest?" he inquired. 
               "Of food I have tasted none, dear Henry, since I was carried off by Methoto!" replied Isaline. 
               "What?" cried Henry, all aghast. 
               "What?" yelled Tom: "not eat nothing fur a week? Why, marm, that ar' would kill a hoss!" 
               "Gracious Heaven! how have you lived?" exclaimed Henry. 
               "Fortunately for me, I have not been fully conscious of existence but a few hours!" returned Isaline. "But what do you mean by speaking of a week?" she pursued, wonderingly. "Surely it is not a week since I fell over the cliff?" 
               "Not quite, I think," replied Henry, "but at least some five or six days." 
               "I thank Heaven then that the time has passed without my knowledge!" said Isaline; "for had I been left all that period to racking thought, I fear I should now have been no better than my poor friend here!" 
               "Oh, it is terrible! terrible! to think how near I have been to losing you forever, my darling!" said Henry, in a tremulous voice. "But you must have something to eat now, dear Isaline!" pursued the excited lover; "and what can we give you that will not injure you?" 
               "Broth!" said Helen; "like we made for our dear papa when he was so sick." 
               "Ah, yes, that would do-but how to prepare it at once!" said Henry. "Tom, do you know of any way?" 
               "Thar's meat enough up whar we camped," replied the old woodman, "ef thar war any way to bile it; but thar arn't a dish about, 'cept our drinking cups. Stop! I've got a idee, Harry-I'll fix it. How long kin you wait, marm?" 
               "I am not suffering with hunger," replied Isaline; "in fact I have but little desire for food; I only feel weak and faint, that is all." 
               "Lord bless your purty soul, no wonder!" cried Tom. "A week without eating? Why, I'd hev a holler in me by that time as ud take in a hull buffaler-yes, marm! Wall, jist you hold on a bit, and keep up your sperits, and I'll fotch you so'thing afore long. You kin stay with her, Harry, and cheer her up." 
               With this, and muttering to himself, "a week without nary thing to eat!" Tom hurried out of the cave. 
               "And now, dear Henry, you must tell me about yourself, and by what mercy of Heaven I see you here!" said Isaline, as he seated himself by her side, drew her fondly to him, and supported her pale, thin face against his noble heart, that beat only for her. 
               He did tell her all that had befallen him, speaking in that low, tender tone that was music to her soul; and with deep sighs, and tearful eyes, and now and then a shudder at his sufferings or perils, she rested her head against his manly breast, looked up lovingly into his handsome face, and felt she had never known pure happiness till then. 
               "And so our cruel enemies are all dead?" she said, with a shudder, when she had heard the tragic tale. 
               "All gone, dearest-you have nothing more to fear from them." 
               "Ah, dear Henry, what an end for those three white men-Hampton, Blodget and Methoto!" 
               "And do you not think they all deserved their fate, dearest?" 
               "It is not for me to judge, dear Henry," replied Isaline, solemnly: "let us leave them in the hands of God!" 
               "Oh, to think I was so near you more than once, my darling, groaning out my despair, and yet going away and leaving you to suffer!" 
               "All has been for the best, dear Henry!" returned Isaline; "all has been for the best, my noble friend! Let us regret nothing-repine at nothing-but thank God, with all our souls, that He has brought us together again!" 
               "I do, dearest-I do!" replied Henry; "and when I cease to thank Him, I shall deserve to lose the happiness which now I feel. Oh, if, when so near you again to-day, I had gone away and left you here to perish! I tremble even now to think of it! And yet I might have done so, but for the Providence that directed me hither through our poor sister Helen!" 
                
               "You wanted to kill me," now joined in the poor girl, who had remained a quiet listener to Henry's narrative; "but God wouldn't permit it! If you had murdered me," she pursued, "I should have come back to sister Ellen here, because she was murdered once and came back to me!" 
               "The reason you were shot at and wounded, dear Helen," explained Isaline, "was because you had this hairy mask on your face, and were supposed to be some wild animal. You must never wear it again, dear Helen-will you?" 
               "No, sweet sister, I will throw it away!" replied Helen. 
               "She seems to understand some things!" said Henry. 
               "Yes, and I believe, with kind, gentle treatment and care, she will yet fully regain her reason!" returned Isaline. "But tell me how it happened that you discovered her so near this place?" 
               "After I had learned from Blodget, on the evening before his execution, that he had seen nothing of you, dear Isaline, either living or dead," replied Henry, "I believed you were lost to me forever, and felt as if I had nothing more to live for. Thinking it possible I might find your remains somewhere in this vicinity, I resolved to come back here alone and search for them, and perhaps end my days here; but when, the day following, which was yesterday, I attempted to separate from my brave, true friend, Rough Tom, I found it impossible-for he declared I should not leave him behind-and so we came together to this place, which we reached last night a little before dark." 
               "Were you indeed here last night, dear Henry?" 
               "Not at this cave, but at the spot where you went over the cliff, my darling, which is scarcely more than a hundred yards distant." 
               "Ah, that is what I have been so anxious to find out, but my poor Helen here could not comprehend me." 
               "I brought you here, sweet sister!" said Helen. 
               "I know you did, poor girl, and have tenderly cared for me since, and, if I live, you shall never regret it!" returned Isaline. 
               "You ought to have seen her among the wolves, dear brother!" said Helen to Henry. 
               "It must have been awful! awful!" shuddered Henry; "and to think that on that night, of all nights, I was sleeping soundly in the Indian camp! I do not understand it!" 
               "Providence sent you that sleep to save you from madness, dear Henry!" said Isaline. 
               "At least I will endeavor to think so," answered Henry, "for otherwise I must severely blame myself-though I could have done nothing for you then, dearest, even had I been at liberty. Yes, I feel that all has indeed been for the best! But to resume. Tom and I made another search last night, till it grew dark, and then we went up the cliff, to where we had camped before, and spent the night there-a wretched night for me indeed! This morning we resumed our search along the beach, and even passed this spot, going a mile or two below. Then we went up the cliff into the forest and killed a deer; after which we came back, searching carefully along the top of the cliff, but of course finding nothing to reward us for our labor. I need not detail all that followed. Suffice it to say, that, being once more down on the beach, we suddenly espied what we believed to be the Phantom of the Forest; and against the remonstrance of my companion, I raised my rifle, took a quick, unsteady aim, and fired, with what success you know. I humbly thank God that my aim was no better! for had I killed this poor girl on the spot, I might still have lost you, dear Isaline, and I should have had the everlasting regret of knowing I had sent a fellow-being to eternity! That the object I fired at was human, I did not for a moment suppose, but rather that it was some wild beast, of an unknown genus and species. Poor Helen shrieked and fled to this cave, and Tom and I followed, he protesting that my life would be sacrificed to my folly, and I then caring little how soon I might lose it, but determined to solve the mystery at any hazard. When I reached the cave and heard you call my name, I could not credit my senses, but with a wild hope bounded forward, and would have done so had I even known I was plunging into the jaws of death!" 
               "God bless you, dear Henry!" said Isaline, in a low, tremulous tone, looking up so lovingly into his clear, blue eyes; "how can I ever repay you for all you have done and sacrificed for me?" 
               "I am ten thousand times repaid already!" answered Henry, folding the lovely girl to his heart. 
               In something like a couple of hours Rough Tom returned, with an air of triumph, bringing a cup full of broth. 
               "I've done it!" he exclaimed; "I've done it beautiful! Thar's more ways nor one to skin a cat, without pulling the hide off over her head. Begs your pardon, marm! but thar arn't no cats about this yere-no, marm! It's the ginewine thing-made of the best deer meat you ever eat. I'll tell you how it war cooked. You see I couldn't put this yere cup over the fire to bile, case it wouldn't stand no sich nonsense; but I found a holler stone, as would hold a heap of water, and I filled that thar from the river, and put hot stones into that till that biled, and so kept that a byling till this yere biled, and now I've got so'thing as you kin take to start with." 
               "A thousand thanks, my dear friend!" said Isaline, as she took the cup from the hands of Tom and slowly drank off the steaming contents. "Really, this gives me new life and strength!" she added. 
               As it was then late in the day, it was thought best, considering the condition of Isaline, to remain in the cave at least another night. This was done; and Tom prepared another cup of broth, which Isaline line drank, and found herself in a state to justify her eating a little meat on the following morning. She was still too weak to walk through the wilderness, and the first plan of her companions was to carry her on a litter. They had already begun to construct one, when Tom suddenly exclaimed: 
               "Stop, younker-I hev it! Wagh! Whar's the use of heving brains, lad, ef we don't use 'em! Thar's the hosses we left, hey?" 
               "Oh, yes-do you think we can find them now, Tom?" cried Henry, with a joyous hope. 
               "Leastways I'll go and see!" answered Tom. "Jest you stay he-yar with the colonel's darter till I comes back!" 
               He immediately set off, and Henry remained with Isaline and Helen, passing the time very happily till his return with the horses, which cost him so long a search that it was late in the afternoon before his welcome shout was once more heard. 
               Isaline had been steadily improving under the watchful care of Henry; but it was now thought best to pass still another night in the cave, which was accordingly done. By the following morning she had recovered so much strength as to be able to sit her horse; and then our friends set off slowly through the wilderness, and before night reached one of the stations on the Kentucky River, where they were received with true border hospitality, and where they remained for several days, enjoying a happiness the more sweet for the many sufferings and perils through which they had passed. 
               But little more remains to be told. A few days later they reached Harrod's Station in safety, where Isaline was clasped in the arms of her father and her two black servants, as one who had truly come back from the grave. The father wept for joy; and Priscilla and Rhoda, who had reached that place some days in advance of our heroine, mourning her as lost to them forever, were perfectly wild with delight. 
               "Oh, my dear, dear, dear Miss Isaline! God bress you, honey!" cried Rhoda, throwing her arms around her mistress' neck, clinging to her spasmodically, and giving way to a wild burst of tears. 
               "Oh, honey darling-honey darling-angel ob goodness-lubly creatur'-bress God Ise got you ag'in, arter all the skeers Ise had out on you!" yelled Priscilla, almost smothering her mistress in turn. 
               Isaline, never more happy in her life, wept with them all. 
               After Colonel Holcombe had heard the whole story of his daughter's sufferings, perils, hairbreadth escapes, wonderful preservations, and the devotion of the two brave men who had at last brought her safely to his arms, he took Tom and Henry aside. 
               First giving his hand to the old woodman, he said, in a faltering voice, and with tear-dimmed eyes: 
               "Tom Sturgess, my brave, noble fellow, God bless you! If half my fortune can recompense you for what you have done for me, it is yours!" 
               "Agh! wagh! whar's the use?" cried Tom. "Ef I arn't paid already, Colonel, I'm a nigger and oughter spile! Don't say another word, Colonel, 'cept you wants to see a feller about my size break fur tall timber! Woofh! thunderation! cater-mounts and allergators! whar's the use?" 
               "And to you, my friend," pursued the Colonel, grasping Henry's hand in turn, "I have only one thing to say. Will you accept the dear girl you have saved for your reward?" 
               Henry struggled to speak, but his tongue would not articulate, and so he wrung the Colonel's hand in silence. 
               A few days later, Rough Tom danced at the wedding of Henry Colburn and Isaline Holcombe-one of the brightest, gayest and happiest ever seen in the wilds of Kentucky. 
               Tom went back alone to the wilderness, or with other companions, and for years continued his perilous occupation, proving himself one of the boldest and bravest scouts and hunters of the border. After the signing of the treaty of peace with the Indians at Greenville, he returned to his dearest friends, and settled down near them, a confirmed but happy old bachelor. 
               Some three years after her marriage with Henry, Isaline was agreeably surprised to find she had fallen heir, by will, to the great fortune of her mother's half uncle, in England, Sir Joshua Speed-the same fortune, it will be remembered, to obtain which, through the possession of herself, had led Charles Hampton, alias Stephen Rogers, to concoct the wicked plot that in the end had cost him his life. This fortune Isaline was only too happy to place in the hands of her noble husband, who subsequently became one of the richest landholders in Kentucky and one of the foremost men in the State. 
               Helen Mervine recovered her reason, and afterward married a man of legal eminence, settling down near her sweet sister, as she ever continued to call Isaline. As with her originated, so with her ended, the PHANTOM OF THE FOREST. 
               THE END. 
                
             
         
       
       
          
             
             
            LIST OF NEW PUBLICATIONS. 
            MAILING NOTICE.-Single copies of any of these Books will be sent to any address, post-paid, on receipt of price. This very convenient mode may be adopted where your neighboring bookseller is not supplied with the work. 
            Address, JOHN E. POTTER & CO., Publishers, No. 617 Sansom Street, Philadelphia. 
            LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Containing his early History and Political Career. By Frank Crosby, of the Philadelphia Bar. With Portrait on steel. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE SAME TRANSLATED INTO THE GERMAN LANGUAGE. By Professor Carl Theodor Eben. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES OF STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS. To which are added his Speeches and Reports. By H. M. Flint. With Portrait on steel. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            LIFE OF DANIEL BOONE, the Great Western Hunter and Pioneer. By Cecil B. Hartley. With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            LIFE OF KIT CARSON, the Great Western Hunter and Guide. By Charles Burdett. With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            LIFE OF DAVID CROCKETT, the Original Humorist and Irrepressible Backwoodsman. With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF MISS MAJOR PAULINE CUSHMAN, the Celebrated Union Spy and Scout. By F. L. Sarmiento, Esq., of the Philadelphia Bar. With Portrait and illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
             
            THRILLING STORIES OF THE GREAT REBELLION. Including an Account of the Death of President Lincoln, and Capture of the Assassins. By Lieutenant-Colonel Charles S. Greene, late of the United States Army. With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THRILLING ADVENTURES AMONG THE EARLY SETTLERS. Embracing Desperate Encounters with Indians, Refugees, Gamblers, Desperadoes, etc. etc. By Warren Wildwood, Esq. Illustrated by 200 engravings. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THRILLING INCIDENTS IN THE WARS OF THE UNITED STATES. Embracing all the Wars previous to the Rebellion. With 300 engravings. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            OUR BOYS. The rich and racy scenes of Army and Camp Life, as seen and participated in by one of the Rank and File. By A. F. Hill, of the Eighth Pa. Reserves. With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            OUR CAMPAIGNS; or, a Three Years' Term of Service in the War. By E. M. Woodward, Adjutant Second Pennsylvania Reserves. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE BEAUTIFUL SPY. An exciting story of Army and High Life in New York in 1776. By Charles Burdett. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE ROYALIST'S DAUGHTER AND THE REBELS. A tale of the Revolution of unusual power and interest. By Rev. David Murdoch, D. D. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE HERO GIRL, and how she became a Captain in the Army. By Thrace Talmon. With illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            HUNTING ADVENTURES IN THE NORTHERN WILDS. By S. H. Hammond. Illustrated. Cloth. Price $1 75. 
            WILD NORTHERN SCENES. By S. H. Hammond, author of "Hunting Adventures in the Northern Wilds." Illustrated. Cloth. Price $1 75. 
            FANNY HUNTER'S WESTERN ADVENTURES. Illustrated. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
             
            WONDERFUL ADVENTURES BY LAND AND SEA of the Seven Queer Travellers who met at an Inn. By Josiah Barnes. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE EARLY DAYS OF CALIFORNIA. By Col. J. T. Farnham. 12mo., illustrated, cloth. Price $1 75. 
            NICARAGUA, PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE. By Peter F. Stout, Esq., late United States Vice-Consul. With a Map. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            FEMALE LIFE AMONG THE MORMONS. By Maria Ward, the Wife of a Mormon Elder. Illustrated. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            MALE LIFE AMONG THE MORMONS. By Austin N. Ward. Illustrated. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE WHITE ROCKS; or, the Robber's Den. A Tragedy of the Mountains of thrilling interest. By A. F. Hill, author of "Our Boys," etc. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            TUPPER'S COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS. With Portrait on steel. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE YOUNG LADY'S OWN BOOK. An offering of Love and Sympathy. By Emily Thornwell. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            SUNLIGHT AND SHADOW; or, the Poetry of Home. By Harry Penciller. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            GREAT EXPECTATIONS. By Charles Dickens. With steel engravings. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE SOLDIER AND THE SORCERESS; or, the Adventures of Jane Seton. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE ORPHAN BOY; or, Lights and Shadows of Humble Life. By Jeremy Loud. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE ORPHAN GIRLS. A Tale of Southern Life. By James S. Peacocke, M. D., of Mississippi. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
             
            BOOK OF ANECDOTES AND JOKER'S KNAPSACK. Including Witticisms of the late President Lincoln, and Humors, Incidents, and Absurdities of the War. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            WAY DOWN EAST; or, Portraitures of Yankee Life. By Seba Smith, the original Major Jack Downing. Illustrated. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE LADIES' MEDICAL GUIDE AND MARRIAGE FRIEND. By S. Pancoast, M. D., Professor of Physiology in Penn Medical University, Philadelphia. With upwards of 100 illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            BOYHOOD'S PERILS AND MANHOOD'S CURSE. An earnest appeal to the young men of America. By S. Pancoast, M. D. With numerous illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE CURABILITY OF CONSUMPTION by Medicated Inhalation and Adjunct Remedies. By S. Pancoast, M. D. With illustrations. Cloth. Price $1 50. 
            THE AMERICAN TEXT-BOOK. Containing the Constitution of the United States, the Declaration of Independence, and Washington's Farewell Address. 24mo., cloth. Price 25 cents. 
            HORSE TRAINING MADE EASY. A New and Practical System of Teaching and Educating the Horse. By Robert Jennings, V. S. of the Veterinary College of Philadelphia, author of "The Horse and his Diseases," etc. etc. With illustrations. 16mo., cloth. Price $1 25. 
            THE HORSE AND HIS DISEASES. By Robert Jennings, V. S., author of "Horse Training Made Easy," etc. etc. With numerous illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            CATTLE AND THEIR DISEASES. By Robert Jennings, V. S. With numerous illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. (Uniform with the above.) 
            SHEEP, SWINE, AND POULTRY. By Robert Jennings, V. S. With numerous illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. (Uniform with the above.) 
            EVERYBODY'S LAWYER AND COUNSELLOR IN BUSINESS. By Frank Crosby, Esq., of the Philadelphia Bar. 12mo. Price $1 75. 
             
            THE FAMILY DOCTOR; containing, in Plain Language, free from Medical Terms, the Causes, Symptoms, and Cure of Disease in all forms. By Henry S. Taylor, M. D. With illustrations. Cloth. Price $1 50. 
            MODERN COOKERY in all its Branches. By Miss Eliza Acton. Carefully revised by Mrs. S. J. Hale. With numerous illustrations. 12mo., cloth. Price $1 75. 
            THE EARLY MORN. An Address to the Young on the Importance of Religion. By John Foster. 24mo., cloth. Price 25 cts. 
            FAMILY PRAYERS. Adapted to every day in the week. By the late Rev. William Wilberforce. Cloth. Price 37 cents. 
            THE HISTORY OF PALESTINE from the Patriarchal Ages to the Present Time. By John Kitto. With illustrations. Cloth. Price $1 50. 
            THE WREATH OF GEMS. A gift book for the young of both sexes. By Emily Percival. Cloth. Price $1 50. 
            THE RAINBOW AROUND THE TOMB; or, Rays of Hope for those who Mourn. By Emily Thornwell. Cloth. Price $1 50. 
            THE LIFE OF OUR LORD AND SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST, from his Incarnation to his Ascension into Heaven. By Rev. John Fleetwood, D. D. With steel and colored plates. Crown 8vo., library style. Price $4. 
            THE RELIGIOUS DENOMINATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES. Their History, Doctrine, Government, and Statistics. By Rev. Joseph Belcher, D. D., author of "William Carey, a Biography," and editor of the "Complete Works of Andrew Fuller," "Works of Robert Hall," etc. With nearly 200 engravings. Crown 8vo., library style. Price $4 50. 
            THE GOOD CHILD'S ILLUSTRATED INSTRUCTION BOOK. With more than sixty illustrations. Quarto, bound in cloth. Plain pictures, $1. Illuminated, $1 25. 
            THE LITTLE FOLKS' OWN BOOK. With sixty illustrations. Quarto, cloth. Plain pictures, $1. Illuminated, $1 25. 
             
            UNCLE JOHN'S OWN BOOK OF MORAL AND INSTRUCTIVE STORIES. With more than fifty illustrations. Crown quarto, cloth. Plain pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2. 
            GRANDFATHER'S STORIES. With sixty illustrations. Crown quarto. Plain pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2. 
            NATIONAL NURSERY TALES. With sixty illustrations. Folio, bound in cloth. Plain pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2. 
            NATIONAL FAIRY TALES. With more than seventy illustrations. Folio, cloth. Plain pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2. 
            THE LITTLE KITTEN STORIES. With fifty beautiful illustrations. Folio, cloth. Plain pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2. 
            THE FUNNY ANIMALS. With more than sixty illustrations. Folio, cloth. Plain pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2. 
            OUR NINA'S PET STORIES. With fifty beautiful illustrations. Folio, cloth. Plain pictures, $1 50. Illuminated, $2. 
            FAMILY AND PULPIT BIBLES. Nearly sixty different styles; with Family Record and with and without Photograph Record. With clasps or otherwise, and ranging in price from $5 to $30. 
            JUVENILE AND TOY BOOKS. Embracing 150 varieties, beautifully illustrated and adapted to the tastes of the little ones everywhere; at prices ranging from 10 cents to $2. 
            PHOTOGRAPH ALBUMS in every size and variety, holding from twelve to two hundred pictures, and ranging in price from 75 cents to $20. 
            Persons wishing a full catalogue of all our Books, Albums, and Bibles, will please send two red stamps to pay return postage. 
            The trade everywhere supplied on favorable terms. 
            Address, JOHN E. POTTER & CO., Publishers, 617 Sansom Street, Philadelphia. 
          
       
   
