
    ----CITATION----
        Caldwell, John H., (b. 1820). The Mysterious Messenger .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5974
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE MYSTERIOUS MESSENGER. 
               FOUNDED ON FACT. 
             
            BY A Member of the Georgia Conference. 
            
               Nashville, Tenn.: 
               PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR BY J. B. M'FERRIN, AG'T.
             
            1860. 
          
          
             
             
               THE MYSTERIOUS MESSENGER. 
               FOUNDED ON FACT. 
             
            BY A Member of the Georgia Conference. 
            
               Nashville, Tenn.: 
               PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR BY J. B. M'FERRIN, AG'T.
             
            1860. 
          
       
      
         
            The mysterious messenger 
             
                
                
               THE MYSTERIOUS MESSENGER. 
               AMONG the mountain spurs which jut out from the Blue Ridge in -- county, there is a pleasant vale, which we will call Bee Gum Valley, through which a stream, called Moccasin Creek, gently flows. This stream is formed by the junction of two others, known as Possum Creek and Mud Creek. These names are likewise appropriated to the two valleys, respectively, through which those streams meander. At the confluence, and situated between the two rivulets, there was, some years ago, a small log-cabin, having no floor but the naked terra firma. This was the Justice's Court-house of the Bee Gum District, where a couple of smart magistrates presided, monthly, to dispense their legal lore from the "Georgia Justice." 
               As this place was also an election precinct, the "sovereigns" of the district were assembled at an early hour on the first Monday in January, 1844, for the purpose of electing county officers. At that time there were no less than seventeen distilleries in the county, as may be seen from the report of the American Tract Society for that year. Whether this district was considered the "dark corner" of -- county or not, it is certain that it enjoyed the reputation of having more drunkards, more quarrelling and fighting, than any other Justice's district in the county. Jim Rick's still-house was emphatically an "institution" of the district, and was situated on Possum Creek, about a half mile above its junction with Mud. A hundred, or more, of the habitus of the district (including several females, for the women of Bee Gum District sometimes attended the election, doubtless to see and be seen) were gathered together from the three valleys, and their adjacent glens and hillsides. The most distingu characters among them are those whom we will mention as constituting chiefly our corps de ballet.
                
               There was Squire Porter, a stout, red-faced man, who seemed to be a leading personage among the people, and one of the presiding magistrates and superintendents of the election. He always delivered his legal decisions with an air of great authority; and when he wished to convey them more impressively than at other times, he would add an emphatic "Now then!" There was Emanuel, his brother, who was always called Manny, for short. Manny Porter had brought up a barrel of Jim Rick's corn whiskey, and "tapped" it under a large oak tree in front of the Court-house. He had killed a poor drunken wretch at the election two years before, and, though he had been tried and acquitted, his neighbors generally did not regard him as guiltless. 
               There was old Bob Pool, a long, gaunt-looking man, and his son Lige, a tallow-faced lad of fifteen. Bob had brought a five-gallon jug full of whiskey, from which the managers of the election occasionally "wet the eye." Netty Mulligen, a spinster, born in the year of grace 1800, was there. 
               Guy Bonner, a deacon of Mud Creek "meetin' house," and old Father Spavin, as he was called, the pastor of that "institution," with several of the breethren, were in attendance. 
               Jim Rick, accompanied by a dirty-faced urchin, whom he called Hempy, was also in the crowd. Now Hempy had a pet fox which he led about with a string, and, while he attended his father at the still-house, commonly kept the animal fastened to a young poplar tree hard by. Hempy and his fox were therefore well-known characters in the neighborhood. 
               Patrick O'More, a newly imported son of Erin, Ben Tucker, old Mose Azant, and others, too numerous to mention by name, were all present. 
               Jake Smith, another conspicuous character, was thought to be "as good a man as ever trod shoe-leather," by which was undoubtedly meant that he was "as hard to handle as the next man." Who this "next man" was, we never were able to find out exactly, but suppose it was General (they all called him Gineral) Jehoshaphat Sprawler. He had for many years been elected to the senatorial branch of the State Legislature, and had just returned from Milledgeville, in time to be at the election. 
               His wife, Mrs. Tabitha Sprawler, (whom the General always called Tabby,) was with him. Tabby loved Jim Rick's corn whiskey about as well as the General and Jake Smith. A few paces from the big oak tree a one-horse wagon was standing, with the "hind gate" off, and a fat, rosy-cheeked woman sat within, offering "cakes and beer" for sale. This was Mrs. Polly Smith, Jake's wife. It was generally believed that Tabby was "as hard to beat" as any woman "in creation." Whether this was true of her in regard to matters and things in general, it is certain that Polly found it true in one particular at least. Whether the two or three drams that Tabby had taken constituted the only causa belli, or whether she indulged some hatred toward the rosy-cheeked vender of cakes and beer, because Jake had always voted against the General, we never could learn precisely; but so it was, Tabby had a "piece of her mind" to deliver to Madam Polly. Accordingly, she stepped out in front of the wagon, and said: 
               "Well, Madam!" 
               "What did you say, Miss Sprawler?" asked Polly. 
               "I say, Madam, that you is n't no lady; that's what I say." 
               "What am I, then?" 
               "You're a good-for-nothin no-count woman; that's what you are." 
               "What have I done to you, Miss Sprawler?" 
               "You've been talkin about the Gineral; that's what you've done." 
               "I hav' n't!" 
               "You have!" 
               "I hav' n't!" 
               "You have, you sneakin', lyin', low-lifed, good-for-nothin' heifer!" 
               "I declare, Miss Sprawler, I never said any thing agin Gineral Sprawler in my life." 
               "I know better; you said that he was n't any more fittin' to go to Sinate than your old dog Towser." 
               "Lawsy massy! I never said sich a thing in my born days." 
               "You did, you sassy hussy, and I'll make you take it back, or I'll scratch the rosebuds out'n them cheeks." 
               "Miss Sprawler, you's drinky now; go away and let me alone. Mind, don't you turn over my cakes there." 
               "You lyin' wretch-you impudent hag-I'm no more drinky than you are this minute, and I'll make you see sights; that's what I'll do." 
               "O lawsy! Jake, come here!" 
               "Do you threaten me with that stinkin', drunken old husband of yourn? I'll let you know that I don't ax him any odds." So saying, she dragged poor Polly out of the wagon, and commenced pulling her hair at a dreadful rate. 
               "O lawsy massy! Jake, do run here!" 
               Jake happened just then to be in the Court-house, making himself jolly with a few of his friends over the contents of the big jug. As soon as he heard the last earnest call of Polly, he looked round, and, seeing the posture of affairs, dashed the glass which he held upon the table, and in an instant was at her side. Now Jake was "too much of a man" to strike a woman, so he set to work in order to release Tabby's hold upon the long, dark tresses of his plump souse. He had not more than laid hold of her, when a terrible blow on the side of the head, directed by General Sprawler, felled him to the earth. Active as a cat, he sprung to his feet in an instant, and faced his antagonist, who stood armed with a light-wood-knot, and was now about to rush upon him with the ferocity of a tiger. Jake foiled the blow with one hand, and with the other fist laid the General flat upon his back. In an instant he planted himself upon the prostrate senator, and commenced dealing the most telling blows into his sides. 
               The scene that followed "beggared description." The crowd rushed up, and gathered in a circle round the combatants. Even Squire Porter left his seat at the table in the Court-house, and, followed by the rest of the managers, rushed to the scene of conflict. "Hoo-ra for Jake Smith!" "Give it to him, Jake!" "Hoo-ra for Gineral Sprawler!" "Rise with him, Gineral!" "Pull him off!" "Part 'em!" "Hands off!" said a man of gigantic form, who, dealing a heavy blow just above the eye of one of the General's friends, put him hors du combat, and, rushing forward, said, "Let me come; I'll see fair play. Lay it on to him, Jake!" 
               Jake did "give it to him," for he continued to thump the prostrate legislator with his heavy fists. 
               By this time a score of men had their coats off, their shirt-sleeves rolled up, and, with horrid oaths and yells, "pitched in" to the fight in good earnest. Fists, sticks, stones, finger-nails, teeth, were now freely and very promiscuously employed. Some had aching sides, some blackened eyes, some broken pates, and others long hideous scratches on their faces, or eyes terribly gouged. One had his ear bit off, another a thumb badly disabled, and another a finger-joint dislocated. 
               In the meantime, the unpleasant position of the General induced him seriously to devise some method of asking for quarter. At length he spoke thus: 
               "Plague on my skin, Jake, if you a'n't the best man that ever I felt of Now you jist git up, and go part them women before they hurt one another." 
               Jake rose immediately, but the women had been parted before. The General's words were taken as a signal for a general armistice, and the fighting soon ceased. 
                
               "Hang me, boys," said the General, "if I don't buy every cake in Poll's wagon, and treat." 
               "Good! Hoo-oo-ra for Gineral Sprawler! Hoo-ra-a-a for Jake Smith!" shouted the crowd, and immediately gathered around the wagon, every man filling his pockets with gingerbread at the General's expense. The General and Jake made friends, and a general shaking of hands succeeded. Jake hitched up his old gray mare, and giving the reins to Polly, whose rosy cheeks, fortunately, had not been "scratched," she drove home. 
               The dust and smoke of the battle (the "batter-ryal" as it has ever since been called) having cleared away, a tall, thin-faced, pale-featured, well-dressed youth was seen entering the Court-house. The general staring at the youthful visitor showed that he was a stranger in those parts. He stepped forward to Squire Porter, who had resumed his seat at the table, and, bending over, said something in an under-tone. 
               "Certainly!" said the Squire; and the youth, taking a thick, heavy plank, ran the ends in between the logs in each side of the wall, at the corner, mounted on it, and began to speak as follows: 
               "'Come now, and let us reason together.' Thus spake the voice Divine through the mouth of an inspired prophet. This message comes to you this day by one who is neither a prophet nor the son of a prophet. Hear ye my words, and give ear to the message which I bring. My friends, there is a monster in your midst, that combines more elements of mischief than any other beneath the sun. There is an evil among you, which is more destructive in its effects than earthquakes, famines, pestilence, and war. Would you have me represent in a figure the evil of which I speak? There is a spirit in the atmosphere which stirs it into a terrible commotion. It sweeps through the land with impetuous velocity. With increasing momentum it rushes on tempestuous wing; with hideous roar, and appalling darkness, it spreads over quiet homes and fruitful fields. It leaves desolation and ruin behind it. Houses are thrown down, people are buried in the ruins, the fields are laid waste, and the forest is prostrated on the ground. The sturdy oak, that long resisted its fury, is compelled to yield, and kiss the earth with its majestic boughs. All nature lies in ghastly devastation! 
               "The spirit of the tempest is Alcohol! The thundering roar of its furious tread, the horrid blasphemy of human lips! The lightning, flashing and scathing in its course, the keen darting forth of malignant passions! The ruin produced, human beings murdered, wives deserted, children in rags, plantations overgrown with weeds, or passing under the sheriff's hammer! and, worse than all, a poor bloated wretch, in the form of man, in rags and filth, going down to a grave of infamy, and a hell of endless torture! These are thy doings, O Alcohol!" 
               Here the speaker pointed at Bob Pool's five-gallon jug. The crowd now gathered within and around the house, and stood gazing upon the pale, thin features of the youthful visitor, in mute astonishment. "He's a temperance man," spoke out a voice, when the youth pointed at the jug. "He's an 'abbilishunist,'" said another. "He's a Bible S'icty man," said Father Spavin, the oracle of Bee Gum Valley. "Silence! let the man talk," said Squire Porter. 
               "My friends," continued the speaker, not in the least disconcerted, "I will not attempt to convince you that intemperance is a great evil. The poor unfortunate drunkard knows it is an evil; he has felt it 'bite like a serpent, and sting like an adder.' He thinks of his ineffectual attempts to reform, of a wasted fortune, of lost respectability, of a heart-broken wife, of ragged children, and the desertion of friends-he feels it to be a dreadful evil! He looks upon his repeated falls into the ditch, his tattered garments, his decaying health, his agonized soul, and knows that it is an evil. No, you can never persuade that drunkard that intemperance is not an evil, until you convince him that vice is virtue, that poverty is wealth, that rags are royal vestments, that disgrace is respectability, that misery is bliss, and that hell is heaven. 
               "His wretched wife knows it is an evil. She remembers the hymeneal altar and the plighted faith; the early days of wedded love, and the hallowed communion of kindred spirits; the happy days of peaceful enjoyment. But these are fled: coldness, cruelty, neglect, and abuse, have come in their stead, and she knows that drunkenness is an evil. 
               "His injured children know that it is an evil. How anxiously did they once listen to hear the footstep of papa upon the threshold! What fire of love kindled and glowed in their eyes as they flew to meet him! But he comes now, and they flee to the woods for shelter. They know that drunkenness is an evil. 
               "The retailer knows that it is an evil. When the poor drunkard has paid him his last dime for that accursed drink, which has ruined his family, and blasted all the hopes of life; when he reels from the bar, where he has swallowed his last destructive draught, and falls prostrate on the floor, the inhuman wretch that has filched his last farthing, rolls him out at the door, and says, 'Begone, you drunken, miserable sot!' 
               "The distiller knows it is an evil. When he takes the precious corn that bountiful Heaven bestows for human sustenance, and converts it into the whisky in his infernal alembic, he can listen unmoved to the orphan's piteous cry for bread!" 
                
               "It's an infernal lie!" shouted a stentorian voice from the crowd. 
               "Say that agin, Jim Rick," said Jake Smith, "and I'll fill your bread-basket with my fist." 
               Jim rather quailed before this unexpected menace from the champion of the day, and, in a tone much moderated, said: 
               "Well now, Jake, I never heard a olphin cry for bread in my life; if I had, I'd a give him some." 
               "I b'lieve you would, Jim; but it was mighty imperlite for you to be givin' of the lie to that nice young man." 
               "Hush your talkin' there, Jim Rick; be quiet, Jake," said Squire Porter, "and let the man perceed with his speech." 
               The youthful speaker remained, during this interruption, perfectly calm, and, without the slightest visible agitation, continued: 
               "Nor can I depict the extent of the mischief produced by this evil. It has spread through all lands; it has ravaged every coast; it has infested every sea. It has filled every prison, and every hospital, and every infirmary, and every poor-house, and every abode of infamy throughout Christendom. It has prepared a subject for many a gallows, a deadly weapon for many a heart, a midnight incendiary for many a town. Go search the records of crime; go count the convicts of State prisons; go number the inmates of county jails; go ask the miserable outcasts from society, from kindred, from home; go among the makers and venders of this deadly fluid, and tell the number of barrels that are daily emptied into human stomachs, if you would form even a vague idea of its extent. 
               "Well may we ask, Cui bono?" 
               "Now, if you want to ax me any thing, Mister," said Guy Bonner, "jist ax on; if I can't answer you, I know who can. Brother Spavin is the greatest scriptorian we ever had in Bee Gum." 
               "Hold, Guy!" said a man whose legs were bent inward, and whose eyes were of non-coincident axes-in other words, knock-kneed, squinteyed, little Dick Thompson. Seizing a glass of spirits, and approaching the speaker, he continued: "I'll let him throw himself outside of a dram of as good corn whisky as ever was made in Jim Rick's still-house, if he'll tell my name." 
               He had scarcely uttered these words, when Squire Porter grasped the extended arm, and hurling him back against the wall, said: 
               "Stand there, Dick, and hold your tongue; I told the man he mout speak, and you sha' n't meddle with him; now then!" 
               With the most perfect nonchalance, and seemingly unconscious of the interruption, the speaker continued: 
                
               "I ask, What good can result from the use of intoxicating drink as a beverage? 
               "Does it benefit the body?
                
               "Does it brace the natural constitution against the attack of disease? Has it ever prevented epidemics, or any of the maladies that afflict the human family? Has it ever effectually removed from the human body any distemper that might not have been removed by milder means? Has it ever benefited the mind? Has the intellect been strengthened, the judgment matured, the understanding enlarged, the memory improved by its use? Has it rendered the mind more peaceful, serene, and happy? Has it ever made any man more fit for social enjoyment, or enabled him the better to cultivate the virtues of friendship and social life? The inebriate, it is true, does imagine himself happy while he is intoxicated; but all his happiness is only a delusion. When he wallows in the mud, like the filthy swine, he imagines himself a prince. When he is clothed in rags, he imagines himself arrayed in gorgeous apparel. While he is suffering for the necessaries of life, he fancies that he is in the greatest affluence. Do you envy that man his happiness? It consists in dethroning reason, drowning reflection, and stifling the voice of his conscience. He quarrels with his best friends, insults the virtuous, and abuses the innocent. 
               "What good does it do the soul, the immortal, the spiritual man? It destroys every noble sentiment, it fills the mind with remorse, and horrifies the man with the most terrible forebodings. But the moderate drinker, the man who either drinks occasionally or habitually, but not to excess, is better off, I admit, than the miserable drunkard; and yet, he derives no benefit, but a positive injury, from alcoholic drink. Let facts speak. In every place where cholera and yellow fever rage, those who use ardent spirits as a beverage are among the first to fall." 
               "That's as arrant a lie as ever was told upon the face of the livin' yearth; I had yaller fever last fall," said Bob Pool, "and drunk Jim Rick's corn whiskey every day." 
               "No, it wasn't yaller fever, Daddy; Doctor Walkdown called it yaller janders." 
               So said tallow-faced Lige, as he sat by the big jug, with one hand resting upon the corn-cob stopper. 
               "Hold your tongue, Lige; I say it was yaller fever. You're a leetle too smart; I'll take you a button-hole lower." 
               "I'll give the nose off my face," said Lige, "if Doctor Walkdown didn't call it yaller janders." 
               "Silence there!" roared the Magistrate. 
                
               "I said, let facts speak. In every place where cholera and yellow fever rage, those who are addicted to the use of ardent spirits are among the first to fall. I give you not my own opinion merely, but the opinions of the most eminent physicians. I will refer you to one who, for the extent of his scientific knowledge, his skill as a physician, and the essential service which he has rendered mankind by his medical works, is justly styled the immortal Rush. He shows how erroneous is the popular belief that ardent spirits are beneficial when a person is hot or when he is cold, when he is wet or when he is dry, when he is at rest or when he is laboring, when he is sick or when he is well. He says there is no nourishment in ardent spirits; the strength they produce in labor is of a transient nature, and is always followed by a sense of weakness and fatigue. Dr. Sewall, late a Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in Columbian College, spent many years in tracing the effects of spirituous liquors upon the human constitution. He prepared a number of plates to represent the injurious consequences of alcohol upon the inner membrane of the stomach. These plates exhibit a faithful picture of its ravages at different stages of its use-not upon the inebriate only, but also the moderate drinker. He has demonstrated the fact, which the distinguished Rush had proved before, that the habitual use of ardent spirits has a direct and progressive tendency to debilitate the moral, intellectual, and physical powers of man. 
               "Dr. Gridley says: 'When alcohol is taken in a certain quantity, diluted with water, as it must be before common use, its effect is to arouse the energies of the system, and for a while the individual feels stronger, but the excitement is always followed by depression, and loss of animal and mental vigor. It contains nothing that can afford any nourishment to the body, and consequently can impart no strength. Again, alcohol is not only innutritious, but is poisonous. Taken into the stomach in an undiluted and concentrated state, in quantities of two or three teaspoonfuls, it destroys life, as clearly shown in Accum's experiments.' He concludes thus: 'Our fourth reason for the disuse of alcoholic liquors is, that any thing short of abstinence exposes to all the dread consequences just mentioned. Here is the grand hope of our cause. TOTAL ABSTINENCE defies all danger and mocks at consequences. With it we are safe, without it in peril.' 
               "I have seen a tract in which the names of nearly all the physicians in Boston are appended to a declaration that ardent spirits taken, in any quantity, into the human stomach are injurious. Let this be our confession of faith, as it is of the savants of Boston. 
               "When you get sick, you send for a doctor-" 
                
               "No, I don't," spoke out a voice from the crowd; "when I git sick, I sends for Sal Hunnicut, for she can beat all creation a givin' of lobeely. Can't she, Ben Tucker?" 
               "Well now, Hal," said Ben, "I can't say she beats all creation, for Doctor Walkdown is hard to beat givin' lobeely; but I do say that Sal Hunnicut can physic' bout as well as any of them bottom save-alls." 
               At this point the oracle of Bee Gum Valley, looking round upon the group of men assembled in the cabin, and with grave aspect, and rather self-important and consequential air, said: 
               "It is my opinion that this business is a speckilation. Them Bostin folks is alvays sendin' out some new idees about temperance, track and Bible S'ieties. They're for evermore sendin' some of their fine edicated men out here to git our money; they ought every one to be driv out'n the country. It a'n't nothin' in the world but a speckilation." 
               "That's it; it a'n't nothin' else," responded Bob Pool. 
               "Be quiet, men, be quiet," said Squire Porter. 
               The young man stood, at each interruption, calm, silent, motionless as a statue, which his pale, this features, wearing an expression of deep solemnity and imperturbable equanimity, caused him to resemble. But, as he spoke, his features were slightly radiated, his voice was clear and well modulated, his manner animating but natural. As soon as Squire Porter's commanding voice had produced silence, the youth continued: 
               "When you are sick, I repeat, you send for a physician. Why? Because you believe that he is acquainted with the structure and laws of the human constitution, the different kinds of diseases, and the remedies proper to be used. You admit that he is able to trace the effects of any particular substance, when taken into the stomach. Even in cases of disease of rare occurrence, you bow respectfully to his authority. How much more should you respect his opinions on a subject which he can investigate everywhere, as in the use of ardent spirits! I have not referred you to the little, deceitful empiric." 
               "You scoundrel!" said Jim Rick, in great wrath;" who told you that little Hempy Rick was deceitful?" 
               "Hush, Jim," said Jake Smith. "I wouldn't said that for-for-well I don't know what. It's awful, Jim, it's awful! But I can tell you that Hempy does sometimes go round the truth. Don't you remember what he said t'other day about the fox climbin' that poplar tree? Now, Jim, foxes don't climb trees, especially when they are as straight and slick as that poplar. I think little Hempy is a leetle deceitful." 
               Jim, not disposed to engage with Jake, remained silent, and, as nobody else came forward to defend Hempy's reputation for voracity, the speaker was allowed to continue. 
               "I say, I have not referred you to the little-minded, deceitful pretender to medical skill, but to a Rush, a Sewall, a Gridley, and an Armstrong-men of intellect, men of learning, men of widespread, immortal fame. 
               "I will now call your attention more particularly to the nature of alcoholic liquors, and their tendency to destroy the digestive powers of the system. Alcohol is composed of hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen, in the proportion of about fourteen, fifty-two, and thirty-four. Now, every distiller knows that ardent spirit, which is composed of alcohol and water, in nearly equal proportions, is obtained by direct chemical process. The elements of the substance used must be separated by vinous fermentation, and renited in different proportions to form it. That the fruit, or grain, from which the liquor is distilled, does not contain a particle of the intoxicating property, is known to every one who is acquainted with the process of distillation. To assert the contrary would be to declare an opinion founded on no scientific basis, but obviously contrary to the demonstrations of chemical analysis. By fermentation, gases, which do not naturally belong to the fruit, are absorbed, and, uniting with the separated elements of the substance, form alcohol, and by distillation it is extracted with a considerable amount of water, and forms what we call ardent spirit. Alcohol is therefore the intoxicating principle of all fermented liquors, which have different names, and contain various properties, according to the nature of the substances yielding them. Brandy, for example, is obtained from the fermented and distilled juice of the grape, and whisky from maize. Now, I will prove by etymology, that the fluid which the distiller obtains by the vinous fermentation and distillation is a deadly poison." 
               Here Jim Rick, looking first at the stout, red-faced magistrate, and then at Jake Smith, said: 
               "Squire Porter, Jake, just let me say one word: that feller's a hintin' at me; I know he is. Now, Squire Porter, I've been a stillin' of peach brandy and corn whisky for ever so many year, and you've been a drinkin' of it all that time. Well, that viny fulmination is as pison as ratsvane, [ratsbane, the vulgar name for arsenic.] I never put a bit of it in my sperits in my life. Now I do n't put any maize in my whisky, neither. I stills my whisky out of as good Injun corn as can be made on Possum Crick, or in Bee Gum Valley. Talk about my puttin' of maize and viny fulmination in my corn whisky, and provin' of it by Netty Mulligen!" 
                
               At this moment a pair of bright eyes flashed indignantly through a crack from the outside of the cabin on the right hand of the speaker, and a shrill female voice cried out: 
               "Daddy Spavin! Daddy Spavin! O Daddy Spavin! tell that man if he says he can prove any thing by me, he's got the wrong sow by the ear!" 
               "Netty Mulligen never was in my still-house in her born days; was you, Netty?" 
               "No, hoss, that I wasn't." 
               The imperturbable speaker continued: 
               "I say, I will prove by the origin of the word itself, that alcohol is poisonous. Take first the word intoxicate; it is from in and toxicum. This is the Latin origin. Pliny informs us that it is from taxa, a species of tree, and which is in Greek called , (smilax.) Toxicum is from the Greek , (toxon,) a bow or an arrow; the barbarians used to poison their arrows, and hence toxicum, in Latin, came to signify poison. 
               "Take, in the next place, the word inebriate; it is from in and ebrio. As this word signifies to make drunk, to intoxicate, it bears a striking affinity to the other term. The primary idea of the Latin word is perhaps to drench; and since to inebriate is to intoxicate, and toxicum means poison, the literal idea seems to be, to drench with a poisonous drug. 
               "We now come to the word alcohol; it is derived from the Arabic kahala, or the Hebrew kahal, which, that learned lexicographer Gesenius informs us, originally signified to paint the eyes black with stibium, or antimony. This was its oriental signification, which, however, they subsequently applied to highly rectified spirits. Now stibium, according to one M. Furtiere, poisoned a certain moine, or monk, and hence in the French language it is called antimoine, and this is whence we get our word antimony. I admit that the light of modern science has dispelled the delusion which for a long time grew out of M. Furtiere's report that stibium, or antimony, is poisonous. It is now understood to be harmless to the human constitution, in its crude state. But still our derivation proves that it was once considered poisonous; and while it was so considered, the term was applied by the Orientals to highly rectified spirits. It is very clear that they understood alcohol to contain poison. We judge, then, both from its component parts and its name, that it is poisonous. When we come to trace its effects, we shall see that they are most destructive. Its deadly character has been fully proven again and again by the most skilful physicians. They tell us that the great agent of digestion, the gastric juice, which is produced by the secretories of the mucous membrane of the stomach, has no influence whatever upon alcohol. Whenever it is introduced into the stomach, it is left to be taken up on the intestines, to scatter unnatural fire through the system, to inflame the blood, to heat the brain, and produce the most disastrous effects. Ardent spirits in their pure, unadulterated state have been discovered in the brain of persons dying from their effects. From the nature of this dangerous fluid, and its ascertained effects upon the human system, even in small quantities, we conclude that it is a deadly poison. I now ask you most solemnly, Did it not poison the man that was killed by mania a potu?" 
               "Gracious heavens! Manny Porter, do you hear that?" 
               This exclamation and interrogatory proceeded from Jake Smith. He stood the picture of amazement, while Manny stood up against the wall, trembling, and pale as death. The wretched culprit looked, while Jake addressed him, as if he would sink into the earth. Jake went on: 
               "Yes, you killed him, Manny; you killed poor Joe Turner. I'll tell you what it is, feller-citterzens, I'm afraid that somethin' awful is a gwine to happen!" 
               The silence of death now pervaded the multitude, and the speaker, doubtless perceiving the effect of his words, proceeded-his pale, marblelike brow so dazzlingly white, remaining unmoved by any of the interruptions with which he had met: 
               "I say, Did not alcohol poison the man that was killed by madness from drinking?
                
               "When we consider that this fiery fluid is so deleterious to all the powers of digestion, we need not wonder that a man in a spree of drunkenness seldom has an appetite to eat, and that, for a considerable time after, he is unable to retain the most wholesome food upon his stomach. This is not because he derives any nourishment from the liquor, for we have shown that it contains nothing nourishing to the system, but because it has disabled the powers of healthful digestion. This remark applies not only to the drunkard, but to the habitual moderate drinker. True, the effect is not so visible, nor the immediate danger so great, as in the case of the confirmed inebriate; but there is, nevertheless, a tendency, progressive, almost imperceptible, to lay the foundation of chronic disorders, and, what is infinitely more to be dreaded, an appetite for the most destructive beverage that ever entered into the stomach of a man. 
               "As it is a poison, let us treat it as a poison-" 
               "That any man should talk that way about one of the good creturs of God, does appear to me perfickly blasphemious. Why, didn't I tell the breethren yisterday, at Mud Crick Meetin'-house, that ardent sperits is one of God's good creturs; and did n't I show, from the 'postle Timithy to his son Paul, that he advised him to take a leetle for his stomach's sake? Now, who can believe that the 'postle Timithy would advise his son Paul, his own dear child, to take a rank pison?" 
               So spake the oracle of Mud Creek "Meetin'-house," to whom Jake Smith thus replied: 
               "Father Spavin! Father Spavin! I do think it is perfickly awful that you should talk to an-to that-that stranger in that way. I feel awful, Father Spavin, I feel awful." 
               These words of the hero of the day seemed to fall with great weight upon the minds of the people, and the youthful speaker proceeded: 
               "In some extreme cases poisonous substances are employed medically, and in cases equally rare it may be needful to use ardent spirits as a medicine. For this reason, no doubt, the Apostle Paul thought it was necessary for Timothy to take 'a little wine for his stomach's sake.' But mind you, it was only in a case of bodily debility, and to be used in a small quantity at that. Under all other circumstances we ought to abstain entirely from the use of alcoholic drinks. As you would not willingly partake of any thing that you know contains a deadly poison, treat alcohol in the same way. I admit that alcohol is a creature of God, and that it was created, as were all other poisons, for some useful end. We may, therefore, with propriety, point out some of the beneficial uses of it. 
               "It is capable of dissolving the resins, and many similar bodies, upon which water has no action; hence it is useful in making varnish. It is capable of dissolving the essential oils, hence its use in pharmacy and perfumery. Some substances which are soluble in water, are precipitated by alcohol-gum, for example; while, on the other hand, water precipitates resins from solution in alcohol. It combines with sulphur and phosphorus, but not with earths and their carbonates. It dissolves sugar, soap, oxalic, tartaric, benzoic, and some other acids. Alcohol is extensively used in the preparation of various kinds of ether. The results of its action with sulphuric acid differ according to circumstances. By varying the properties, we may procure sulpho-vinic acid, ether, oil of wine, or olefiant gas. As it remains fluid at the lowest temperature, it is advantageously employed in filling thermometer tubes, in experiments in artificial cold. It possesses great antiseptic properties, and hence is used for preserving anatomical preparations. On account of its ready inflammability, the purity and intense heat of its flame, it is conveniently; but not very economically, employed in chemical lamps, usually called spirit lamps. It readily dissolves ammoniacal gas; and as the caustic alkalies, potash and soda, are taken up in large quantities by alcohol, and as it does not dissolve their usual impurities, the solution, by distillation, yields these alkalies in a state of great purity. It is sometimes used in chemical investigations to separate two salts, both of which are soluble by water, but only one by alcohol; for example, sea-water contains both sulphate and muriate of magnesia, and the latter only being soluble in alcohol, it affords a ready method of separation. 
               "These are only a few of the good and useful purposes for which alcohol was created. Let no man say, then, that we are for refusing a good creature of God. Let us use properly, but not abuse, a thing so useful in its proper place. As God has placed the elements of this dangerous fluid in nature, and permitted man to combine them in their proper proportions, so as to produce it, so he has placed various metals in the mineral kingdom, and permitted man to discover and use them. We have no more right, therefore, to destroy our own lives, or to injure our health or morals, or those of our fellow-man, by the use of alcohol as a beverage, than we have to use iron or steel, in the form of deadly weapons, to cut our own or our neighbors' throats. Let us, therefore, treat alcohol as we treat other poisons-never take it into the stomach except as a medicine, and that under medical advice. This is simply our doctrine of total abstinence-nothing less, nothing more. On this foundation rests the hope of the inebriate-the hope of the moderate drinker-the hope of the rising generation-the hope of the world! What will you do, then? Will you sign the total abstinence pledge?" 
               "No," said Old Mose Azant, the most inveterate toper on the hill. "No; it would be signin' away our liberty. Our forefathers fout, bled, and died for liberty, and we won't sign it away." 
               "No, says the poor drunkard; it would be signing away our liberty! Our liberty! And what liberty has that poor, besotted, forsaken, downtrodden, despicable creature? Why, he has liberty to stagger from one side of the road to the other; he has liberty to fall down and wallow in the mire like a brute; he has liberty to array himself in dirty rags, and to starve his wife and children; he has liberty to be poor, miserable, despised, and spurned all his days; he has liberty to get a broken head, a bruised eye, battered limbs, a bloody face, and a very bad name; he has liberty to rush down the hill of life, heedless, mad, infatuated, to land in perdition itself; he has liberty to be kicked out of doors by the man who sold him the stuff that made him so gloriously independent, and pocketed his last dime for the same. Really, it is ludicrous to think of. A drunkard have liberty! He who is the slave of appetite have freedom! He who has struggled often to break the chains of a destructive habit- who has promised himself, promised his wife, promised his God, promised his friends that he would never touch another drop, and then rushed with the impetuosity of relentless craving into the vortex of drunkenness-such a one enjoy independence! It is worse than ludicrous, it is a folly of the most stupendous magnitude. Is this the liberty which your revolutionary fathers fought, bled, and died to secure? Heaven deliver us from the galling yoke of such freedom! Give us king, emperor, autocrat, sultan, pope-any thing short of the despotism of hell itself, rather than the sway of alcohol. O ye enslaved minions of whisky, turn, and to-day assert your nobler freedom. Declare your independence of that vile monster who flatters, but to betray and blast you for ever. 
               "You will not sign away your liberty! And have you not done it? Have you not signed away your liberty to rob, and steal, and murder? to commit perjury, and treason, and arson? Look at the constitution and the laws! do you not stand pledged to support them? Do you not stand pledged to pay your taxes, and to perform your military, road, and patrol duties? Did you never pledge yourself in a bond as principal or security, in a promissory note or other civil obligation? Did you never pledge yourself at Hymen's altar, or make a vow, or form, in the secret chambers of your souls, a high and noble resolve to be just and good and true to God and man? Well, what were all these but signing away your liberty to do evil, and pledging yourselves to do what is right? 
               "What says amor patri?" 
               "Och, ant is it me that you would be afther askin' that? Thin, plase your honor, put the cart before the horse. Me name in truth is Patrick O'More." 
               Up to this time Tabby had been sitting down against the wall, with the General's head resting on her lap. The combined effects of Jim Rick's whisky, and Jake Smith's blows, had put him into a deep sleep. Tabby, herself, seemed suddenly aroused from a state of partial stupor by the brogue of the Celt, and she broke out thus: 
               "He's an Irishman, Pat, and I' bet he's akin to you." 
               "'Pon me sowl," said Pat, "if he is, he's a born gintleman ivery bit of him. Ant is it for this that I've come all the way to Ameriky, and cut wood, these two years past, for Jim Rick's still-house, and all to hear you talk so swately, like Father Matthew? Ant truth didn't I sign the plidge, and bring the midal with me? But, your honor, Jim Rick's cowrn whisky was all to strong for Patrick O'More." 
               "What, I repeat, says patriotism? What says love of country? Why, that we ought to be peaceable and law-abiding citizens. But look at the crime that flows from the improper use of spirituous liquors. Look at all the mischievous elements in society that are engendered and aggravated by alcohol. Look at the criminal courts, the jails, the penitentiaries, the alms-houses, and other institutions, which must be supported at an enormous public expense. Can any true patriot look at these things, and fail to be convinced that it is his duty to sign the total abstinence pledge for his country's good? But says one man, 'I am neither a drunkard, nor am I in any danger of becoming one. Let them take the pledge who need it; I do not.' And will you do nothing for the good of others? Will you take care to keep out of trouble yourself, and use no means to keep others out? How selfish! 
               "Pro bono publico-" 
               "Squire," said Guy Bonner, "that's a leetle more than I ought to take. To call me poor Bonner the publican is what I can't and won't stand." 
               With this, Guy pulled off his coat, rolled up his sleeves, and declared that although "a deacon of Mud Crick Metin'-house," he was compelled to resent this open implication of his character. 
               "Why, Squire Porter, I've heard Brother Spavin tell what oudacious creturs them publicans was, and to be put down as one of them is too much." 
               "That's a hard sayin', Guy, I admit," says Squire Porter. 
               "Pitch into him, Guy!" "Pull him down!" "Throw him out o' doors!" "Give him Jesse!" shouted a number of voices within and without the house. Thus encouraged, Guy bristled up to the young man, rubbing his fists together, and grating his teeth as if he was about to chew him to pieces. Just then Pat stepped in between the parties, while the youth still stood-like a marble statue, immovable, pale, but dauntless. 
               "Back! Guy Bonner; not a hair of his head shall you touch at all, at all. He's a born gintleman all the way from me own swate gem of the sea, and by St. Patrick, and Father Matthew, and all the saints, ye shall not hurt him." 
               "I reckon, Brother Bonner, you'd better not do any fightin', but it appears to me that these track and temperance and Bible S'iety doin's is a gwine to ruin this country." 
               Thus advised the oracle. 
               "He's called-the oudacious cretur has said I was-" 
               "Feller-citterzens!" said Jake Smith, "ef you please, don't say any thing agin that-that-that-stranger. I feel like somethin' awful is a comin' upon us." 
               "I repeat," continued the youth, "every lover of his country should sign the total abstinence pledge for the public good. It is our duty to rectify the state-" 
               "Yes," said General Sprawler, who just at this moment awoke, "Yes, and the State will ratify it. I told them so; I told the honorable sinators that very thing. In fact, I made the longest speech on ratification that I ever made since I've been a member of the Sinate. Col. Talkwell, the Piney Woods Sinator, told me it was the best speech on ratification that he ever heard in his born days. I'm glad, sir, to see that you're a friend to ratification. Hoo-ra for ratification!" 
               "I say that we must purify the state of public morals. We must cast the weight of our influence and example on the side of total abstinence. 
               "What, then, I ask, in conclusion, is our immediate and paramount duty? Cast out all mauvaise honte-" 
               "Yis, yis, your honor, I will mount him and cast him out immadiately. Come along, old Mose Azant, the gintleman says you must be cast out immadiately." 
               And Pat laid hold of the old toper, who had sunk down to the ground in a state of glorious(?) unconsciousness. He dragged him along through the crowd, and deposited him safely at the root of the big oak, and, returning, took his station by the young speaker, who continued his peroration: 
               "I say, we must cast out all bashfulness, all false modesty, and go to work like men. There should be a general speaking out among the people. The inroads of alcohol must be checked, the distiller must be persuaded to abandon his infamous art, the retailer must be won from his unholy traffic, the drunkard must be retrieved from ruin. To this end, I repeat, the people must be aroused. The pulpit, with its deep-toned sentiment of morality, must speak. The Legislature with its penal sanctions, the magistracy of the land with its authority, the Church with all its mighty moral and conservative power, all must speak out upon this vital question. Teachers, parents, pupils, young and old, must speak. 'The voice of the people,' says the great Carolinian-'uttered under the necessity of avoiding the greatest of calamities-may, without impiety, be called the voice of God.' 
               "Let this voice, then, utter itself from land to land, and from sea to sea. Let it sound out from the mountains, and among the valleys, and along the plains-yea, let it be echoed from the vasty empyrean itself-Vox populi, vox Dei!" 
               Here the speaker descended from the board on which he had stood during the time that he addressed the people; the crowd parted; he walked out, passed off, and the assemblage remained for several minutes motionless, as if under a spell, and in breathless silence. At length the stillness was broken by a low, half-suppressed murmur. "Who is he?" "Where did he come from?" "What's he up to?" Then they inquired of those whose names he had called out-"Did you know him, Guy Bonner?" "No." "You, Netty Mulligen?" "Never seed him before in my born days." "You, Pat O'More?" "Niver a bit; but he's a born gintleman, 'pon my sowl he is." At length Jake Smith arose, and, with the most awful demeanor, commenced speaking in a slow and solemn tone, as follows: 
               "Feller-citterzens, I don't believe that's a man. He's not flesh and blood. Did you ever see sich a white face in your born days? I wouldn't a said what Jim Rick, and Guy Bonner, and Father Spavin said for the best farm on Possum Crick. I tell you he's not a man; he's an aungel from heaven! He knows too much to be a man. Didn't he know little Hempy, and Guy Bonner, and Netty Mulligen, and Manny Porter, and Pat O'More, and old Mose Azant? He just knows every thing that's in our hearts, and all that we ever done in our lives. Didn't he tell about Manny Porter killin' of Joe Turner? And yit, none of you never knowd him nor seed him before in your born days. And then, he told all about what alkerhol is made of. Didn't he say that it's got the hydrophoby, and the cowborn, and the oxvomic in it? Didn't he show as plain as any thing that it's got the viny fulmination, and the stibium and the antimony, and a heap of pison stuffs, in it? Didn't he tell us that it blacks the eyes of the Oriental Injuns? Didn't he tell us all about the Greek and the Latin, and the French and the Hebrew, and the Rorabac languages? And then, didn't he prove pint blank that the alkerhol has the toxicum in it and the embryo? Yes, feller-citterzens, as sure as we're here to-day, it's got the toxicum in it. But the most awful thing, to my mind is, that it's got the smilax in it. No doubt in the world this word, in the language of the Oriental Injuns, means the small-pox. I believe it; for he's an aungel from heaven, and has come to warn us. Feller-citterzens, jist as sure as Jim Rick's still-house stays where it is, we will all ketch the small-pox. I mean to hitch up old gray, and take Poll, and move away. This is not all: as sure as my name's Jake Smith, I mean to sign that total abstination pledge. O Jim Rick! didn't them last words make you feel awful? Didn't he say that nasty Hempy, and the fox and the poplar, would die? Feller-citterzens, I feel awful." 
               The last time we heard from those parts, Jim Rick had signed the pledge, and pulled down the still-house. Little Hempy had become a smart young man, and is never accused nowadays of going round the truth. The fox lived to a good old age, and was then gathered to the place where all the good foxes go. The poplar was still green and flourishing. Manny Porter had died of mania a potu, and Pat O'More had the good fortune to get the right sow by the ear when he made Netty Mulligen, spinster, Mrs. O'More. Father Spavin was dead, and General Sprawler had become the pastor of Mud Creek "Meetin'-house." Guy Bonner found out at last that corn whisky was oudacious stuff, and he and most of the breethren had signed the pledge. Jake Smith had become a class-leader in the Methodist Church, and to this day, whenever he speaks in "love-feast," he feels awful as he tells about the aungel that came from heaven to warn the people of Bee Gum Valley to fly from the small-pox. Squire Porter had become a clever local preacher, and always closes his sermons with "Now then!" 
               I may as well say, for the satisfaction of the reader-though Jake Smith will probably never believe it till the Day of Judgment-that the Mysterious Messenger was only a colporteur of the American Tract Society, who, passing through the neighborhood, stopped at the Courthouse, and delivered a temperance speech which he had written and committed to memory. Gentle reader, if you have read the story through, and now say to yourself, Mihi fuit ridiculo, just turn back, and read the serious part by itself, and exclaim, O tempora! O mores!
                
             
            THE END 
         
       
   
