
    ----CITATION----
        Barnard, Charles (1838-1920). Money and Music .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5736 wright2-0217
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               MONEY AND MUSIC:
               AN ART STORY.
               BEING THE SEQUEL TO "THE SOPRANO."
            
            BY CHARLES BARNARD, AUTHOR OF "THE TONE MASTERS," "THE SOPRANO," ETC.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by HENRY L. SHEPARD & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
            
         
         
            TO EUGENE THAYER, WHOSE FRIENDSHIP WAS THE INSPIRATION OF THOSE SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL PARTS OF THIS BOOK, THAT ALONE GIVE IT ANY VALUE.
            
               THE AUTHOR.
            
         
      
      
         
            Money and music
            
            
               
                  
                     "The society of women is the foundation of good manners."
                  
                  —GOETHE.
               
            
            MONEY AND MUSIC.
            AN ART STORY.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               Deacon Silas Lovewell Brown sat in his great chair by the kitchen door considering a grave matter, and with his unread paper in his hand. It was not the sleek cattle in the yard before him, nor his barn bursting with fatness, nor his cozy little bank account, nor any of his worldly possessions, but his son. The deacon was perplexed. Why did Providence send him such a son? (As if Providence was to blame!) Why was this strange child sent to disturb his peace? The other children were apparently all right, and willing to be led or driven in the regular conventional way. They did not object to going to church, nor did they rebel at prayer meetings. They conquered "the three R's" in the usual time, and were good common-place boys and girls. Why was this, the eldest child, a black sheep in the dull white fold?
               The deacon pondered long and deeply and then with many inward groans turned in silent prayer to heaven and asked petulantly why these things were suffered so to be.
               
               "Oh! Lord, take away my son's proud and wicked heart, and—amen—Drat the boy! If he has not climbed to the weather vane on the barn. He will break his precious neck as sure as he lives."
               Grasping his hat and letting his paper fall he rushed into the open air.
               "Come down, Frank! Come down this instant."
               The boy with hands and knees clasped round the stout pole to which the weather vane was affixed turned his head and looked calmly down.
               "All right, father. In one moment."
               The pole was short and well secured to the building, and to a boy of steady nerves, such a position was not particularly dangerous. With one free hand he unfastened the figures that gave the points of the compass, and then glancing down into the yard where two long strips of wood lay in a peculiar position he took a sight from them and re-affixed the figures in a new and more correct direction. This done he slid down the pole, scrambled over the roof to a sky light, slipped into it and disappeared. A moment after he came out the barn door and approached his father.
               "What do you mean, you young scamp? Have I not told you never to go upon the roofs?"
               "No, sir. You have never said a word about it before. Besides, I have corrected the points. They did not show true north, so I climbed up and fixed them by my compass. See. Here it is."
               So saying he displayed a small cup of water in his hand. On the water was floating a cork with a 
                     magnitized
                     magnetized
                   needle thrust through it.
               The deacon in a fit of anger dashed the cup to the ground, and it broke in pieces.
               "Oh!" said the boy. "You have ruined it."
               "Yes, sir, and you shall be served in the same way if you do n't mend your ways. Do n't let me see you on the barn again, nor fooling away your time with such nonsense. Take that, and go feed the hens."
               The deacon administered a stout cuff to the lad's ears and then turned towards the house. Groaning deeply at the depravity of his overgrown son, he tried to pray for help, but finding that hopeless he sought comfort in his newspaper.
               The boy smarting more under the insult than the blow, retreated with glistening eyes to the corn barn. The chickens having been supplied the lad wandered out aimlessly into the orchard. It was Autumn, and beneath the trees lay heaps of ruddy apples. Picking up two of the fairest he put them in his pocket saying:
               "I will keep them for her. Let me see. The Agricultural Fair is to be open this afternoon. I may meet her there and can then give them to her. They are not so fine as I could wish, but they are the best we have. I'll visit my den and consult my sun-dial. It must be nearly time to go."
               Passing through a gate he entered a lane that led down hill towards the meadow. At some little distance from the house, where two stone walls met was a rude hut, made by laying fence rails over the angle in the wall. Bits of boards made the sides, and straw and brush on top made the roof. Just before it on the grass was a large flat stone. Sitting down upon this he began to examine two rusty nails in it that after a fashion made a sun-dial.
               While he sits there let us have a fair look at him. About fifteen years of age. Tall, ungainly, and in that raw, growing state, peculiar to boys who are not quite young men, and at the same time, hardly lads. His brown hair hung long about his neck. His eyes were blue, and his features thin and sharp. An unlovely youth whose only redeeming points were his high clear forehead and an air of thoughtful energy. His clothes were far too small for him, freely displaying his long hands and slender wrists, and giving him a juvenile appearance his years did not warrant. How much his ill-seeming was due to the close economy of his father or the indifference of his mother remains to be seen.
               At school he sat on the lowest form, and had not his teacher been a woman he had worn the dunce's cap half the time. She, seeing that if he was interested was bright enough, shielded his sensitive nature from the extreme consequences of his apparent want of scholarship. In arithmetic he was a perfect failure. He never could master the multiplication table. Interest and fractions were traps for the mind, and he fled from them as from a snare. In reading he at times stood at the head of the school. Did the "Reader" contain descriptions of natural objects, or poetry, he flashed out brilliantly, and exhibited a talent possessed by but few. Were the extracts of other kinds he blundered fearfully. In spelling he was at the bottom of everything. It was the bane of his life, and though many a lecture was read to him, and many a hot tear wasted over the dreadful subject, he never learned to spell till long after he left school. When older he mastered the subject in a flash. In geography, dealing as it does with real places and things, he stood high. No pupil more correct than he concerning the world and what it held.
               As for grammar he could make nothing of it. The absurdities of those alarming nouns, verbs and prepositions, plagued the very life of him, and he signally failed to penetrate the dismal fog of rules and exceptions. At the same time his ear and a certain refined sense of the fitness of things caused him to select his words with care. He at all times expressed himself with clearness and brevity.
               In this connection one remarkable talent stood out in bold relief. In English composition he excelled and displayed a readiness and ease of expression hardly to be expected of one so young. In brief he was a bright and talented lad in certain directions—an incomplete mind lacking something yet to be found.
               In manner he was quiet and retiring, often absent minded and listless. Did the matter before him interest him, he displayed energy enough and became bright and attractive. The trouble was that so few things interested him. His morals were passively correct. As the boys in the village school said:—"he was too dull to be bad." He did not care to follow their wild sports, preferring rather the society of his books and—the girls. This last was much to his credit. Only in their society did he find that refined and subdued brightness that suited his peculiar temperament. He was never absent minded while with them, for his was one of those happy natures all women love.
               I have drawn the character of my hero thus minutely for the purpose of drawing your attention to a strange mental puzzle. His was what may be called the musical or artistic temperament. I do not propose to defend it, seeing that God has made it. It needs no defence.
               In our practical American way of looking at things we have frowned upon this temperament, and endeavored to treat this peculiar class of mind as if it had no right to exist. We have often looked upon the musician as a person of not much account, and have said to our boys—"My son, beware of art. Go into a store. There is no other good thing in life. Get money. It alone profiteth anything."
               Money is a good thing, and the means to all lovely and honorable ends, but it is not all, nor the end. There are things fairer and better than money. This story is to show them to you.
               The boy bent low over his rude sun-dial. Did he not make it himself, and had not the north star been his guide? The rusty nails pointed in shadow to certain slight marks on the stone, and he judged that it was about three o'clock in the afternoon.
               "It's time to go. Let me shut up my den and I'm off."
               Going to the hut he unlocked a rude door hung upon leather hinges. Such a queer hiding place! In one corner was a low seat, and beside it a table covered with a number of crude models. An old clock, with the face gone, stood ready to be put into a toy steamboat for works. A second-hand turning lathe and a blow-pipe, with odd bits of wood and metal, littered the floor. Scattered over the table were stray tools, pieces of wire, screws, nails and other queer things. The contents of a boy's pockets are generally peculiar, but this boy's belongings were strange and original to the last degree. Evidently a creative and inventive mind presided here.
               Picking up a small screw driver he closed the door and turned his steps down the hill towards the village. Walking carelessly along he seemed lost to everything save the fact that he was going to the fair where he no doubt, would meet his pretty Susy.
               As he approached the meadow, where the brook ran through the farm, he heard loud shouts and laughter.
               "Confound those boys! They are destroying my water-wheels."
               Hastening on, he soon came to the brook. On the banks were several wild boys from the village engaged in tearing down a small dam in the brook.
               "What are you doing?" he cried rushing among among them.
               A shout and further destruction.
               "What have you done with my water-wheel?"
               "Hullo! Here's Fooley Brown himself! Say, how's yer dam, Fooley?"
               "You have ruined it," said he savagely, and threatening the nearest boy with his screw-driver.
               "Would you hit him?" cried the biggest boy coming to the rescue. "Do you want a licking?"
               Our hero, stronger than any of them, saw it would be useless to argue with tongue or fists with so many. They were six to one. Flinging his screw-driver into the water, he strode indignantly away and left his tormentors to finish their work.
               "All my wheels and raceways gone, and my experiments ended. Well, never mind! Susy is not so mean. I'll go to her."
               Soon after he was upon the village green, where a huge tent had been spread for the Agricultural Show.
               We will not waste time upon this. It was the usual story. A hot, suffocating tent crowded with people, vainly thinking themselves happy in examining the very vegetables that were the bane of their dull lives. The boy paid his quarter at the door and pressed eagerly through the crowd in search of someone. The long tables had no charm for him while his Susy was absent.
               At one end of the place was a raised platform upon which were sundry chairs and music racks. A flaming poster on the wall announced that the Styenburg String Band would play at half-past four. Little did our boy care for that.
               "Where can she be? How I wish I had some better apples to give her. Seems to me my clothes are not very good. I wish I had worn a better hat among so many"—
               A vision of very juvenile loveliness stood before him. Blue eyes and much yellow hair, reminding one of a flower run to leaves—a girl all run to ringlets.
               "Oh! Susy. How do you do to-day. I have brought"—
               Susy caught sight of some one else, and failed to notice him. A smart sample of the genus boy, arrayed in his smiling best, came up.
               "Good afternoon, Miss Susy," said his elegance, taking off his hat.
               Susy ducked her pretty head careless of the lank ill-clad farmer's boy beside her.
               "Good afternoon, Mr. Simbledon. How glad!"—
               Some one plucked her sleeve.
               "Won't you have an apple, Susy?"
               "No," said she turning away, "I hate 'em."
               The boy's heart sank to fifteen below freezing (17°).
               Utterly perplexed and mortified, he stood for a moment irresolute.
               "I have a better one in my pocket, Susy."
               
               Her feminine shallowness did not hear, being dazzled by a new hat hanging sideways on a masculine head, and a smart cane tied to a boy.
               Completely crushed, the farmer's lad slunk away just in time to hear the hat and curls go into raptures over a dish of prize apples.
               With head bent down he wandered absently through the crowd, he cared not where. What a dreadful lonely place this was! Not a soul to speak to, and his Susy lost forever. Finding an empty box in the corner, he sat down upon it disconsolate.
               Soon he looked up, and found that the stage was in full view. Upon it were a number of men preparing, to him, new and strange instruments, as if they meant to play a tune. He had never heard more than one instrument at a time, and so many together attracted his attention. He began to study the men and their doings with great interest.
               Susy, his ruined hydraulics—everything slipped from his mind. In his interest in the matters before him he quite forgot his sorrows. Presently the men sat down, and there was a pause. His thoughts returned to his troubles. Oh! those boys—and his faithless S—
               A full deep chord from the band. A succession of them. Slow, solemn and 
                     portentious
                     portentous
                  . He could not analyze the sounds, nor distinguish between the violins and the trombones. He did not hear the sounds intellectually, but emotionally. He had never dreamed such tones existed. All was new, fresh, and peculiar.
               Presently the nature of the music changed, and a firm, well-defined, melody began. To his infinite surprise the blood mounted to his face, and a new and delightful sensation thrilled his being. He began to be ashamed of himself for yielding to the influence of mere sounds. But then, what heavenly sounds they were!
               The music went on. Brighter airs and more playful rhythm succeeded. Then he began to be greatly pleased, and was surprised to find himself smiling. Presently he laughed softly to himself. Certainly it was the grandest thing he had ever experienced.
               In a few moments the gayer melodies merged into the more stately theme that had followed the gloomy introduction, and after a well 
                     arraigned
                     arranged
                   and brilliant climax the band gave two or three short chords and was silent.
               The majority of the people present heard the music and heard it not. Absorbed in figs and pears they did not notice the arrival of their guest—Art. It tickled them and did no more. There may have been a few who were the better for the hearing. There was one, surely. When the band ceased playing the boy sat silent and utterly lost to all about him. Did he not hear voices calling to him? In the cloudy group of figures the music brought up did he not see some one beckoning, to him? Had he not heard his name called twice? There had been a voice in the music, far away and indistinct, yet a voice that spoke to him.
               
               What marvelous discovery had he made? Here was something better than apples, or water works, or toy steamboats (even if they did work), or girls, or any other earthly thing. Here was a revelation! Now he knew what he wanted. It was music. How glorious it would be to wave a stick in the air, and have all those sounds spring up at command! He would be a leader like that. How like a king he would then become.
               Hastily rising he pushed through the crowd and rushed into the open air so carelessly that he nearly tumbled over a very young couple eating apples together on a low seat by the door.
               Away over the wide fields racing madly along, excited and happy, he made for his den, entered and sat panting down. Covering his face with his hands he gave himself up to thoughts new, strange, and 
                     exhilerating
                     exhilarating
                  .
               Perhaps you care to hear the name of the piece of music that had so shed full day-light into a mind hitherto only star-lighted or grey with coming dawn. It was the Overture to "Martha."
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               A young girl tripping down the carpeted stairs in the dimly lighted hall of a city mansion. As she reaches the last step she pauses with one hand on the carved lion's head of the walnut balustrade. The door bell rings at that instant, and seeing the postman's cap through the glass door, she opens it for him. She might pass on and leave the matter to a servant. That she does not shows her the sensible girl that she is.
               "A letter for me! How very fine!"
               
                  "Miss JANE KINGSFORD, 5 Massanutten Avenue. ———"
               
               She takes the letter, bows her thanks, closes the door, and smiles in serene satisfaction. Then planting herself on the stairs where she can read the letter by the hall lamp she says:—
               "This is exceedingly nice. A letter from Fanny. An 'invite' I fancy."
               While she reads let us have a look at her. A well developed feminine figure of medium height, a dark ruddy complexion, made lovely with abundant black hair. Her head is small and finely proportioned, and her hair, caught up behind in a simple knot, gives it an artistic and womanly expression. Her face is rather long with a pointed chin and decisive nose. Two dimples come out when she laughs, and her brown eyes have at all times a spirit of sly fun and good nature lurking in them. Her forehead is not high, but her hair flows away from it in waves, showing that she is neither mean nor dull. Her face gives an impression of intelligence, culture, and latent vigor. Her hands are small, and her teeth regular and brilliant.
               Her dress of simple plaid, and her few plain black ornaments, and neat collar, express simplicity and common sense. Her father's wealth enables her to indulge in limitless dress. That she discards all show and is simplicity itself, is the result of her peculiar views on the great "dress question." The fact is she is a peculiar person. Young and untried as yet. Her education includes studies on two continents. Berlin, Vevay, London, New York, and New England, each offered her their best in the way of education. Though very young she is mature in all respects save one. "Into each life some rain must fall," and hers has not had a drop. Clear sunshine all the way. The conflict of passion, the trials of patience, and the strength won through the bearing of heavy burdens is yet to come. As she sits before us, we see her fresh, untried, and happy. The evil days have come not, but they are near. Her atmosphere is clear, but the electricity gathers, the breeze is fitful, and the air oppressive with coming clouds and stormy winds. For a while the day will be fair, and we shall see her in her simple girl life.
               A momentary shade spreads over her sunny face.
               "My usual experience! An 'invite' from Fanny and my new dress not done. My best 'bib and tucker' in the wash—and the cook sick—the second girl with a sore finger. What shall I do? What time does the train start? I can't think of taking the boat at this time of the year, however much I'd like a little voyage. Perhaps if I turn the world upside down, and work like—"
               A pause and a look of solemn dejection.
               "I must have some new gloves. Shouldn't be happy without 'em.
               Let me read the child's letter again."
               Reads: 
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "ROCKFORD, January 16, ——
                                 My dear, dear Jane,
                              
                              When you read this come to me, and bring your trunk. Very gay times here, musically speaking. We are going to give 'Elcantha,' (Jane—:"Don't know what that may be. Never heard of it.") and we want your voice and company. ("Yes—voice.") Mother says she shall be happy to have you stay with us. Your house here is open, as of course you know, but I don't suppose you care to go there at this time of the year.
                              The concert is to come off on Friday next. Come to us on Wednesday.
                              By the way, I've got some new traps. Blue silk and a poplin—very gay.
                              I'm taking music lessons—and—that's all now. Be a dear and come on Wednesday.
                              
                                 Yours truly,
                                 FANNY DEAN.
                              
                           
                           
                              P. S. I forgot to say that I will meet you on the platform when the first train arrives.
                              Bring your party dress, and some songs.
                              
                                 F. D."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               The girl to herself:—"Shall I go, and can I go?"
               "To the first, yes,—to the second—try."
               The flowing day but one saw the same young person in a black velvet hat, scarlet feather, traveling dress, and a most delightful frame of mind, seated in a railway car and speeding past the suburbs of a great city. The way pointed to the snow clad hills of one of our northern States.
               A look of pleased expectancy lighted her face, and she seemed prepared for any amusement that turned up.
               Beyond the coming and going of the passengers as the train paused at numerous stations nothing in particular took place for the first hour. She amused herself in studying the usual odds and ends of humanity one is sure to meet on the cars. She did not read having a profound respect for her eyes. Reading men and women sufficed. Surely they were more entertaining than any book.
               As there were not many passengers she had a seat to herself.
               The character of the scenery began to change. Higher and wilder hills took the place of the flat sea shore country around her home. Long tracts of forest swept past and a broad river came in sight. The road crept along its banks pausing whenever a group of houses collected about some mill.
               Presently they stopped at a manufacturing town and there was a large influx of passengers.
               Among them came an elderly lady in deep mourning. Seeing she did not find a seat readily Jane offered the half of hers.
               "Thank you, my dear. An old body like me appreciates a seat."
               What a lovely face. Wrinkled, with sunken eyes, and a faded complexion, yet beautiful and charming in its expression. In figure the old lady was short and stout. In manners a lady. In speech and deed a patient, kind and christian woman. Old age had not soured, but ripened and clarified her. A little hard of hearing at times, but otherwise well preserved for an old lady of seventy.
               She settled herself into the seat and held her bag in her lap. The cloth mits she wore failed to conceal hands worn, and perhaps misshapen, by years of toil. They told more of her past life than did her face. The time was, fifty years ago, when she kept and tended personally a dry goods store in the city. A pioneer in the best kind of woman's rights. They did not give it that name in those days. They were wise.
               She could not keep still long. She must talk as was her delightful custom. When she opened her mouth grandchildren came eager to hear the pleasant story or merry tale. The child beside her must have a share in her good nature.
               "Are you traveling alone, my dear?"
               "Yes, quite alone."
               "So am I."
               "Do you not fear to travel alone?"
               
               "Me! Oh no! Do you?"
               "No. Why should I?"
               "That depends upon your bringing up. Some folks spoil their children by refusing to trust them alone. Your mother did not make that mistake."
               "
                     You'r
                     
                   right madam. Throw the boy in and make him swim. Those are my sentiments."
               The old lady looked at her young companion and smiled.
               "Seems to me you are uncommon bright. Where did you come from?"
               "Am I. I'm glad you think so."
               The old lady without waiting for a reply went on talking as if to herself.
               "Yes. Folks have very different ways of bringing up their children. There's my brother. Oh! it vexes me to see the way he treats that son of his."
               "Indeed!"
               "The boy is not so much to blame. He is queer, no doubt. But, then, that's no reason why he should treat him as he does."
               Thinking this announcement peculiar Jane listened in silence. What else could she do?
               "Don't you think so yourself? If a boy has a bent let him follow it—unless it leads to wickedness. If he has a liking for any thing let him work it out. It is useless to tie children up too close."
               Jane listened attentively and then in a spirit of solemn fun said soberly:—
               "Have you never heard Madam, of that famous proverb 'chain up a child and away he will go?' Its truth is impressive."
               "Yes, yes. I read that long ago. It's Scripture, and I must say, my dear young lady, you did well to remember your Bible lessons."
               How very interesting the frozen river and snow clad hills became just then. In a moment she found her voice.
               "What may be the young man's particular bent. Does he take to horses, or the construction of tertiary pies?"
               "It's not those. He is the lightest eater of the family. It's music he is after."
               "Music! How splendid! Does he take lessons?"
               "No, his father will not let him."
               "That 's very wrong madam. If a child has a gift for music let him cultivate it."
               The old lady looked over her glasses at the face beside her. After a quiet inspection she said:—
               "Was your mother a Bullfinch?"
               "Oh dear, no. Her name was Smith. Why do you ask?"
               "That was my mother's maiden name. They were very bright. The Bullfinches. One of them invented a machine for paring apples, and one was a minister. So you think the boy should study music?"
               "Certainly. Why not? It will do him no harm, and if there is anything in him it will help make a man of him."
               "That 's just what I think about it—only Brother Deacon—"
               Just here the brakeman opened the door and called out: "Rockford," and the train drew up at the station beside the wide frozen river.
               Who "Brother Deacon—" could be she did not learn. The old lady rose to let her pass, and intent upon securing her own exit Jane lost sight of her companion for the time.
               In the meeting of her dear Fanny and in procuring her trunk she was forgotten. Much kissing and the demands of the carriage drivers absorbed her attention.
               Fanny proved to be a young person rather under medium size. Her light wavy hair clustered about her white forehead in profuse elegance, and her bright eyes and pretty turn up nose were wonderfully attractive. The very opposite of Jane, and far more winsome, at first sight. Her small mouth, ever ready to break into a smile, exhibited pure white teeth, and let out a voice both musical and sweet.
               The greetings of these two we can afford to skip. As the day was fine they resolved to walk through the town towards Fanny's home on the other side of the place.
               There was nothing in particular about Rockford that needs description. A manufacturing town on the banks of a large river. Gigantic factories lined the stream and the village clustered irregularly about them. A broad street lined with stores led from the station by the river up over the church-crowned hill to the open country beyond. A few grand mansions scattered about the outskirts gave a finished air to the place. In one of these lived Dr. Henry Dean, Fanny's father.
               With much merry talk the two girls passed up the street little heeding their surroundings.
               One of the stores they passed was a large grocery or variety store. About the door-way were piled numerous boxes and casks. Among these was a hogshead from which a boy was drawing molasses in a tin measure. A tall over-grown lad in misfitting garments and a cloth cap. As the girls came opposite the store they noticed that the lad was utterly absorbed in the contemplation of his boots. The stream of molasses seemed to be forgotten, and a black rivulet was flowing from the full measure and spreading in pools upon the snow covered walk.
               Jane was the first to see this and cried out merrily:
               "Look! look! Fanny. See what a sweet deluge."
               Fanny turned her eyes towards the forgetful boy. He, hearing Jane's laugh looked up, recognized Fanny and politely took off his cap to her.
               Too much amused to reply, she took no notice of him, but said to Jane:
               "How very funny. What in the world is he thinking about?"
               That was never known for just then the store-keeper appeared, and seeing the delicious ruin, seized a lump of snow and flung it at the boy's head. It struck him on the shoulder and he sat down in the luscious rivulet.
               The man swore dreadfully and the boy scrambled out of his inglorious bath as best he might.
               Our Jane was not naturally malicious, but she laughed in spite of herself. As for Fanny her eyes blazed with indignation.
               Stepping up to the man she said boldly:
               "For shame Mr. Tarbox. To strike a boy in that way. You might have—"
               She would have said more had not Jane pulled her away just in time to save her from a lumbering public carriage that drew up at the store.
               An old lady put her head out of the window and said:
               "What's the matter driver?"
               "Nothin, mum. Only a bit of a row."
               "Come, come," said Jane. "Let us get away. There will be trouble directly."
               By main force she dragged her companion away, and they both passed on. Fanny indignant and Jane mortified and yet quietly enjoying the fun of the thing.
               She turned to look back once and saw the old lady expostulating with the store-keeper and protecting the boy from further assault. The sun shone full in her face and Jane recognized her railroad acquaintance.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               The residence of Deacon Silas L. Brown. The family save the deacon himself assembled round the evening lamp in the "best room." Company in the goodly shape of Aunt Sally Brown had arrived, and in honor of the event the family had consented to sit in its own chairs and use its own astral lamp.
               Their usual dwelling place was the kitchen. Only once in a year were the juvenile Browns permitted to invade the sacred precincts of the "parlor."
               The occasion was an impressive one, and all four of them sat in uncomfortable grandeur gazing in subdued awe upon Aunt Sally's black silks and the unaccustomed carpet.
               There were no pictures on the walls. Horrible dried grasses filled two vases on the mantle, and the furniture, fireplace, and lamp, had a grand and very dreary air peculiarly overwhelming to their young minds.
               The oldest of the children, after a while, did venture to open a book. He had a weakness for books. The others had not yet learned to approach their Aunt, though she had made several candied advances towards them. They took the sweets, and kept their distance. This, her motherly soul did not fancy, and she resolved 
                     
                     to
                   win their hearts before bed time.
               Nothing could be done just now, for the Deacon was expected, and Mrs. Brown was not a person to start a conversation. Much waiting to hear her lord speak first had tied her tongue.
               In a moment the door opened and the deacon appeared bringing a note in his hand, and evidently in a demoralized frame of mind.
               "Look at that!" said he savagely. "Look at that and tell me what you think of the boy."
               He handed the note to Aunt Sally, and then went on talking wildly.
               "Then there's that girl, that Fanny Dean, she has played the mischief with the boy. If it had not been for her he would have gone in the way I bid him. But, no! The little white faced minx must teach him music. Music! Pshaw! What folly I'd box her ears—if I could."
               Aunt Sally did not pay the 
                     slighest
                     slightest
                   attention to this, being absorbed in the reading of the note. When he paused for want of breath, she read the note aloud: 
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "ROCKFORD, Wednesday, Jan. 20th.
                                 
                                    Deacon Brown,
                                 
                                 Dear Sir,
                              
                              We regret to be obliged to say that we cannot keep your son in our employ any longer. His carelessness and inattention are too much for further patience. We have estimated the damage he has caused us, and find that it exceeds the amount of wages now due him, and we cannot therefor pay him anything whatever.
                              
                                 Yours respectfully,
                                 BANGS & TARBOX, Grocers.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The eldest son laid aside his book at the reading of the note, and sat nervously twirling his fingers in undefined terror. Even the other children grew moist about the eyes, as if they felt their father's anger might some how boil over upon them too, and they sat in expected discomfort which was far worse than the stiff chairs.
               "Yes! A pretty mess. Too careless for further patience. Do you hear, you wretch? I'd flog you if you were not so old."
               "Brother," said Aunt Sally softly, "you are too hard on the boy. You—"
               "No, I'm not, sister. The boy has gone wrong since he was born. Wasting his time on foolish notions about things. He was always fooling away his time about some gimcrack. And now it's music he is crazy over."
               "I say, you are too hard on him. There must be some good in the boy."
               "Yes, digging. That's good. And dig he shall. He shall go back to the farm, he shall. I'll make him give up his fine notions about music. He wants to become a player, does he? I'll teach him to play with a vengeance."
               "Does he wish to become a musician, did you say?"
               "He shan't. I tell you he shan't. He shall work. That's what he shall do."
               "I do not wish to prevent it. I merely asked to know if what I hear is true. I am told he has a real talent for music."
               
               "Talent! What's that? A humbug and a positive sin."
               "If I remember rightly you used to say that you had a talent for farming. The time was when men called you a talented man, Deacon Brown."
               A mad bull struck by a shot in full career could not have been more effectually hit. His vanity was touched and he paused abruptly. Aunt Sally followed up her advantage.
               "That your son has talent I doubt not. He is your son. That his talent does not run in the same direction as yours is not surprising. Was not his mother a singer in the choir when you married her?"
               "I believe she was that silly."
               Mrs. Brown received this remark with her usual meekness. Never being quite sure that she had a mind of her own, aside from her husband, she made no reply. She never replied to him. She had been told that it was not the wife's place to hold opinions and she supposed it must be so.
               Aunt Sally paid no attention to this remark nor appeared to notice her sister's silence. It formed a part of her idea of a christian life never to speak ill of any one. If she could say no good she would say nothing.
               Turning to the boy who sat white and scared by his mother, she said:
               "Have you never taken lessons in music?"
               "No. Fanny Dean showed me the letters on the piano and the notes in the books. The rest I taught myself. I can play a few psalm tunes now, if I have the notes?"
               "Can you indeed. Playing church music is not easy?"
               The boy opened his eyes very wide. That his aunt should know anything about music surprised him greatly.
               "And you like music very much?" said Aunt Sally.
               "Yes, I do," the boy replied timidly. "If I had some money I'd hire a teacher."
               "And if you had a teacher you would practice faithfully, and learn as fast as you could?"
               "Yes I would. Oh! I'd work night and day. But then, I suppose I never can have a teacher. Besides, I have no organ, or even a piano."
               "You prefer the organ?"
               "Oh! yes. It's certainly the grandest of all. I heard a good one a few days since. We haven't a very good one in our church, and I walked over to the Landing and heard another and bigger one. It sounded grand. The man knew how to make it roll like thunder. It was splendid, and it frightened me. I wanted to know how to use it like that. There were some flowers on the pulpit, and there were pictures, and it made me feel good to be there."
               This long speech stirred the boy up to a high pitch of excitement and enthusiasm. Before he could say more his father broke in rudely.
               
               "Then you went into that infidel church, did you? Have I not forbidden it? You shall smart for this, you young sinner."
               Aunt Sally paid no attention to this speech. Turning to the boy she said:—
               "I remember that church. The Catholic, I think."
               "Yes, the infidels! You'll never enter it again sir."
               Aunt Sally still talking to the boy:—"And you walked over and back, did you?"
               "Yes, it's not far. Only ten miles. I carried a slice of bread in my pocket, and a woman gave me a drink of milk at a farm house. I was pretty tired—but the music! It was fine."
               Encouraged by his aunt, the boy threw off his habitual fear of his father, and showed his real and best side, to the secret joy of his fond, but weak, mother.
               "Now Frank," said his aunt, "what would you say if I were to lend you an organ—a small reed organ for your own use?"
               Say! He could n't say. Words were too poor to express the bliss of such a thing. An organ! In the house! Oh! that was too much. Such a thing could not be possible. So much happiness could not be expressed. He stood transfixed, with his fingers twisted together and staring with wide open eyes at some realm of unhoped for happiness.
               What he would have said cannot be known for his father broke in testily:—
               "I declare, sister, all your old nonsense has come back. What unheard of folly! You ought to know better than to throw away your money in that way. I cannot allow you to waste your property by such extravagance."
               "Brother Brown, I am too old a woman to be instructed in the care of my money. My years are few, and I prefer to spend it while they last, instead of leaving it for my heirs to quarrel over."
               The Deacon knew enough to stop. He felt sore to see the money that some day might come to him or his thus spent. She was his senior by ten years and in some secret draw he had no doubt there lay a will partly in his favor and signed:—"Sally Brown." 'T was best to be silent.
               Presently he changed his tactics:—"I hardly know, sister, where we can have such a huge thing as an organ in our house."
               "Oh! father," cried the boy in alarm, "not a church organ. A parlor organ—to practice on. It will be very small. I can keep it in my room. It shall not disturb anybody."
               The sudden fear that this great and unexpected happiness might not be his fired his courage, and he actually spoke to his own father.
               More family talk was had over this matter, and the result was it was decided that the boy could accept the loan and was to be allowed to practice upon it during the evenings and upon holidays. From 6 P. M. Saturday till the evening of Monday, every week, the instrument ment was not to be opened. The Sabbath day was not to be desecrated.
               Finally the evening came to an end. Aunt Sally had not won the hearts of all the children, but in one she had enshrined herself forever.
               The boy was fairly wild over his new joy. Not daring to express all he felt he went, about nine o'clock, out into the clear, cold, moonlight night. The snow lay thick and white over all. He heeded it not. What did he care for snow or—Bangs and Tarbox—or the cold? Heaven had come down to him, and the accidents of the season were as nothing. He walked down the lane, past the barn and came to a ruined hut or rude cairn half hid in the snow. He deliberately climbed to the top, and sat down on a stone. Presently he reached up and from an overhanging tree broke off a twig. With this for a baton he began to beat time. Then all alone in the snowy field he commenced to sing in a disjointed voice, neither tenor, bass, nor a child's soprano, an old tune fill of fire and strength. To Handel's "Christmas" he sang:— 
                     
                        Awake! my soul! stretch every nerve,
                        And press with vigor on;
                        A heavenly race demands thy zeal,
                        And an immortal crown."
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               A small dingy hall in the second story of a building on the main street of Rockford Centre. A rude stage or platform at one end, rows of wooden settees and an open piano, intimate some kind of musical entertainment in preparation. Time, —Friday evening, January 14, ——. The occasion—a performance of the American Cantata of "Elcantha." A huge yellow poster at the street door informed the public that this "beautiful American composition" would be given in this hall by the Rockford Centre Orpheons, assisted by superior solo talent. The people are beginning to assemble, and in one of the side rooms the performers are preparing for the concert. Being interested in some of them we may venture in.
               A bevy of young girls preening themselves for a musical flight, arranging their feathers both for effect and comfort. Among them our Jane, and Fanny Dean. Fanny busy introducing her city friend, and Jane much entertained by the sayings, doings, and dressings of the rural beauties about her. Simply dressed and with quiet manners she contrasts well with their overdressiness and accented ways.
               
               As the reader does not care for female small chatter we may skip till the performance begins. With much fuss and display, the chorus, to the number of about forty, were finally seated on the stage in front of the large and interested audience. The sopranos occupied seats on one side, and the altos the other. The basses sat behind the altos and the few tenors were squeezed in behind the sopranos.
               An expectant buzz of talk pervaded the audience, and the crash of peanuts resounded through the hall. The conductor, a tall youth in shiney boots and yellow hair, stood up in the center, and a fat girl much run to ringlets sat at the piano at one side of the stage.
               When all was ready and reasonable silence had been secured, a cadaverous man in a black stock, no collar, and a sanctimonious air stood up book in hand, as if ready to read.
               "Who's that?" said Jane quietly to Fanny.
               "Tribby Bangs."
               "Tribby Bangs?"
               "Yes. Tribulation Bangs. He keeps the store where we saw the boy spill the molasses. It was Tribby's partner who threw the ice at him."
               Mr. Bangs was evidently impressed with the importance of his position. The Cantata of Elcantha is opened by a short selection from the Scriptures to show how the story begins. Mr. Bangs was a very religious man. He made the doing of religion a serious matter. He was a great lover of forms and ceremonies. He called himself a church member, and went to service three times every Sunday, attended prayer meeting twice a week, and cheated his neighbors whenever he had a chance. He gloried in his present opportunity and read the few lines that preceded the musical part of the cantata in a voice that was designed to be solemn, and was wretched.
               Then the conductor rapped on his music rack, and the choir scrambled irregularly to their feet in a cheerful state of excitement. Jane was as calm as a summer's day. Such public performances were familiar enough to her, and though she had only rehearsed with Orpheons once, she felt safe, as the music was very easy. Fanny, inspired by the sight of her friend's calmness, felt tolerably placid.
               The opening chorus began. To the intelligent listener it sounded somewhat like this:— 
                     
                        "Hagan! Hagan! ong ive Hagan
                        E is the favud won
                        Oll tha ings derminon."
                     
                  
               
               The great beauty of these words is noticeable. The music was peculiar. Brilliant, full of most remarkable changes from loud to soft, and suggestive of a bunch of fire crackers exploding in a barrel. We are willing to be forgiven for this metaphor. The audience were electrified. They applauded noisily. "So inspiriting, and lively." "Beautiful music, and full of fire." Poor, deluded souls, starved for the want of music, they seized the dry crust thrown at them, and thought it sponge cake.
               
               The choir, save one, sat down in a very comfortable frame of mind. A whispered remark by one of the tenors will express their feelings:
               "We did that first rate."
               Next came a barytone solo, followed by a chorus repeating precisely the same idea in full harmony. The words were peculiar. They told of somebody sitting at some one's royal gate. Who and where was not made plain. The words are nothing! The music! That is the great thing. Never mind the words.
               Then the tenor soloist chanted a proud; song concerning a further developement of the story. At the end, the Bass singer replied in song and placing eighteen words on five notes. The effect was masterly.
               Here Mr. Tribulation Bangs arose, and in a tone designed to be impressive, read more concerning the story. Why the talented composer had not put this part to music is a question that cannot be answered.
               The reading was followed by a duet. As the parts were mainly in consecutive octaves one could not decide whether the music was in a major or minor key. As the words were a drinking song this omission of the third had an appropriate and descriptive effect. The listener, could call it major or minor as he pleased, which was certainly a great advantage.
               A chorus followed, and then came an alto solo designed to be soulful and terrible. It did contain some alarming chords, and the singer made the whole thing grand, gloomy, and peculiar.
               More songs, duets, choruses and concerted pieces followed in appropriate order. It is needless to describe them. They were fine specimens of musical composition. Here and there bright gleams of real merit broke in to relieve the dreariness, flatness, and miserable feebleness of the cantata. They were only gleams. A fine idea or motive was given and then instead of being treated with proper respect it was extinguished, and another and poorer one announced. The talented composer was a man of ideas. He had so many he could put three on every one of the eighty-two pages. Had not the mighty Beethoven set the example with a wealth of ideas lavished on every page, and should not the composer of the popular American Cantata of Elcantha do the same? But, enough of this. The audience were in raptures, the Rockford Centre Orpheons covered themselves with musical glory, and the performance came to an end.
               One young person put on her hat, and made ready for the walk home in no pleasant frame of mind. Our Jane lost her temper. Not outwardly. To all appearance she was as serene as ever. Mentally, she bit her lips with vexation. It took her a very long time to get ready, and she was with Fanny the last to leave the dressing room.
               As they opened the door a young man in a beaming countenance, brushed up clothes, and a clean collar, appeared.
               "Good evening, Miss Dean. Are you not going to congratulate me?"
               
               "Really! Who is it?"
               "Oh! I do n't mean that. I'm going to have an organ."
               "How very fine. That is good news. Jane, this is young Mr. Brown."
               Jane bowed stiffly, and said nothing as her anger did not permit her to be gracious.
               "Jane Kingsford," continued Fanny, "is a friend of mine. She is from the city. She is quite musical."
               "Yes, I saw her in the chorus. By the way, how beautiful the concert was."
               "Do you think so?" said Jane frigidly.
               "Why—yes, do n't you?"
               "No. It was horrid!"
               Fanny fearing something dreadful would be said took Jane's arm and started down the stairs saying:
               "Come. Let us go home. It is getting late."
               "Shall I not escort you?" ventured Mr. Brown.
               "We shall be most happy."
               The first few steps through the quiet village street were taken in silence. Presently the fresh air brought back our Jane to her usual sweetness. Suddenly she broke out into a hearty laugh.
               "Ha! ha! It was too funny. If the dreadful ventilation had not made my head ache I should have laughed out in meeting."
               "At what?" said Fanny.
               "At the music. Such trash—Oh! Fanny, dear, excuse me. I do not mean to be rude."
               "You need not fear. Speak your mind I did not admire it any more than you. Only, it is all we have. We seldom hear any better. It is a long step in advance of the dreadful psalm tunes our society have been singing, and I dare say they think it very good music."
               "I'm sure I thought it was," said the young man.
               "Then you have much to learn sir."
               "Do you think so, Miss Kingsford?"
               "I know so. The music you heard to-night was not worth the paper it was printed on. It was full of mistakes, and errors in counterpoint, and abounded in dreary platitudes and musical nonsense. There I feel better! I've said my say, and I'll try to be good now."
               "Counterpoint," said he, "what is that?"
               "The art of writing music in parts. Did you never study harmony?"
               "No, Fanny has taught me the little I know. I mean to study and be an organist. Aunt Sally has"—
               "Haw! Haw!" cried a gruff voice behind them. "Fooley Brown going to be an organist! You could n't do it. You do n't know enough."
               The trio paused, and the man behind came up and they saw it was Mr. T. Bangs. They made no reply and he went on up the street saying: "What a little fool!"
               The boy was utterly mortified at this attack and turned away in silence. Perhaps it was to hide his sensitive tears.
               
               "Do not mind him," said Fanny cheerfully.
               "If you really intend to be anybody, or to attain to any respectable position," said Jane, "you will not mind such unkind remarks."
               "Oh! I don't care. Only, it was mean in the old fellow. He is always saying disagreeable things to folks."
               "That is because he is disagreeable to himself."
               At this point they reached the Dean Mansion. The young man was on the point of taking his departure when Jane detained him.
               "You must not think ill of me. I was vexed tonight. The dreadful music, and the bad air disturbed me. I am glad you intend to study music. It is a very noble and honorable ambition, but, if you wish to become perfect you must hear better music than Elcantha."
               "How can I?"
               "Go to the cities. Study first and learn all you can, and then go among good musicians and hear real and true music. If I can help you, let me know. Good night."
               In a moment they were both gone and he stood alone in the cold winter's night. For the first time in his life he had been told that his love of music was honorable and manly. Fanny was a charming girl, and a good friend. But this girl—she was magnificent.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               An upper chamber in the seventh story of a dry goods warehouse. On the three first stories the dry goods concern, and on the fourth, fifth and sixth stories apartments and lodging rooms for small families, clerks students and others. This particular room was next the roof and had dormer-windows looking out over the house-tops. On the window seat sat a young man dreamily gazing at the prospect. What was there to be seen?
               A tumbled sea of blue slate roofs crested with chimnies for red foam. Tall factory chimnies in groups stood here and there, several steeples rose like lighthouses pointing the way to a safe haven for travelers over this ridgy sea of toil and business.
               One of these steeples was superlatively ugly. Shooting up in irregular swellings each smaller than the last covered with a scaly coat of wooden shingles, and surmounted by a huge gilt ball out of all proportion to the spire, it seemed more the weak invention of some carpenter's assistant than the out growth of an artistic mind. The dwellers in that city called it the "Church of the Holy Dragon's Tail."
               
               Nearer and lifting its slender spire into the sky, stood a marvel of art and genius. A poem and a dream in stone—so light and airy it seemed. The eye loved to follow its lines from the massive belfry up each slender column, past the group of beautiful pinnacles at the foot of the spire, past the richly ornamented cornices, and up the lines of the graceful spire to the gilded cross surmounting all. No utilitarian weather vane marred the climax of this master piece of architecture. Not a bare hard cross, but wreathed and half hid by twining vines. Each twisted tendril and iron leaf, and the almost unnoticed cross stood clear and bright against the purple eastern sky.
               Most of the factory chimnies were ugly and repulsive to the last degree. One alone showed an artistic temperament in its designer. It resembled an Italian Campanile. The beautiful outlines of that style of tower were reproduced in warm red brick. This chimney, serving alike art and usefulness, belonged to our revered uncle S.; a young man wise in chimnies if not in statues.
               Far away beyond the city stretched a range of hills, and the smiling open country just in full flush of Autumnal glory. Surmounting one of the hills stood a single white tower of graceful shape—a thing of beauty, a work of art, and a water tower at the same time. To the east a long blue line showed where the sea came up to the town. The masts of the shipping rose above the house tops, and on the roof of one of the buildings stood the white mast of the Signal Service. The red flag did not fly as the night was calm and fair; over all spread a cobweb of telegraph wires.
               Noting these things and thinking of the contrasts they afforded, the young man sat at the window watching the sun go down, and night spread over the silent city.
               A knock at the door. He turned his head and said, "Come in."
               The door opened and a young man entered and advanced towards the window.
               "How are you, my boy?" said the new comer cordially extending his hand.
               "Well, John, thank you. How is it with yourself? Come look at my picture gallery. The setting sun is throwing in some fine shadows and half lights."
               For a few moments both were silent.
               "What can you be thinking about, Livy?"
               "Of many things, John. Of these steeples mainly. St. Mary's never tires, and were it not for that hideous thing yonder I should be always happy in looking at it."
               "You mean the Dragon's Tail. It is a fright, surely, but what do the people care. It is all one to most of them."
               "I don't agree with you. Art does affect us all though we may not know it. St. Mary's steeple is a teacher and inspirer. Silently day by day it gives its lesson. Look at the navy yard chimney. Is it not a pleasure to see it?"
               
               "Oh! yes, but what do the workmen who toil in the cinders beneath it care for its shape?"
               "I cannot say. Yet, I think some poor fellow's life must be happier for seeing it daily."
               "Well, well, I dare say. By the way, I think gold will rise next week."
               "Why will you lug in gold when there is so much to be seen out of the window. Come, let me play for you."
               "There is where we forever differ. All you seem to care for is music and art. For my part I'd rather have supper than all the music going. Come, I have an invitation to tea."
               "Do I know the people?"
               "No, but they have heard of you, and wished me to bring you. There is a pretty girl, too."
               "What is that to me. The pretty girl to be seen is the one bait offered everywhere. Goodness! Have they nothing to offer a man but pretty girls?"
               "Yes, supper."
               "Worse still. I can eat whatever I please at the restaurant."
               "Music. She plays and sings. Come, I was told to bring you."
               "Let me shut up my den, and I'll go." Shutting up the den consisted in going out and locking the door behind them. They took the elevator and as they sit in the stuffy little car let us have a look at them.
               Livy, the elder was a music teacher, and a child of the cities. A slight form, small hands, light hair, blue eyes, and a pale regular face gave him an air of refinement and culture, and his dress showed he possessed a sense of neatness if not much wealth.
               John, his friend, belonged to quite a different order. A Yankee of the Yankees. Well made, stout, vigorous and active. Grey eyes, a full brown beard and curly hair. Wide awake, oppressed with an excess of common sense, ready for a laugh at any time, he seemed the very opposite of his artistic fiend. That these two so unlike should cling to each other is easily explained. Each supplied what the other lacked.
               Reaching the landing they went out into the quiet streets. It was Saturday evening and the stores were closed. A short walk carried them out of the business part of the city, and they came to the residences of the more wealthy people.
               "Not among these, John!"
               "Why not? They wont talk stocks and gold. These people know too much. Besides there is the girl who is so musical. Come, this is the place."
               A handsome brown stone house facing the Park, and suggestive of comfort and elegance. A colored man opened the door, and they were ushered into a sumptuous parlor. Livy gazed at the blue covered furniture, at the heavy curtains and at the grand piano, and ventured the remark:
               "Does she like such things?"
               "Bless you no. Her Pa's doings. Hush! Here she comes."
               
               The rustle of a dress and in a moment our Jane stood before them.
               A cordial welcome was extended to John, the friend of the family, and quickly shared with his friend. The few words of introduction having been exchanged, Jane said, "I have a new pleasure for you, John. Fanny Dean is making me a visit. Let me call her."
               With delightful freedom she bid them be seated and slipped out of the room to call Fanny.
               "There, my boy! What do you think now? There is money and common sense united, as it rarely is. Rich and not vain; gay and not silly."
               In a moment Jane returned leading Fanny Dean. Eighteen months have passed since we saw her last. If any thing she is prettier than ever. Her delicate little nose is as heavenward-tending as ever, and she has put on a maturer look that has not hurt her winsomeness.
               Introductions and the usual commonplaces followed, and in a few moments Mr. Preferred Stocks Kingsford, and his wife Mrs. P. S. Kingsford appeared. More introductions followed and the conversation became general.
               Mr. P. S. Kingsford, Banker and Mill owner, will bear inspection. Tall, thin, bald headed and impressive. A king in the market and a power on Wall street. His face is sharp and perhaps a little hard. His high forehead indicates a large brain, and a clear active mind. His chin closely shaven is decisive, and his mouth is not lovely. Trade, business, and the market stand out all over him. He is generally silent, and unless he thinks it worth while is seldom talkative or entertaining.
               The only interest he has for us at present lays in the fact that he is Jane's father. He is supposed to supply her with bread and butter, good clothes and parental advice. The first three she accepts gracefully, and the last she acts upon if it suits her. Jane is willfull at times. So far it has not been of much consequence. She has never come in collision with her father's imperious will in any matter of importance. Wait awhile and we shall see who has the stronger will.
               Mrs. Kingsford is no doubt a very proper person. Jane respects her and even loves her in a certain way. She consults her about household matters, and her own wants. Jane, it must be confessed keeps the house very much as she pleases, and gives her mother all of the credit and none of the work. So far Jane has never come from her mother with an ungratified wish. Mrs. Kingsford is a fashionable woman, and thinks a good deal of dress and all the other proper things, consequently she has not much in common with her only child.
               We will not report all that was said at this meeting. Other people came in, and conversation and music began to fill up the time pleasantly. There were many musical people present, and in a quiet way they had some Saturday night music.
               Our two young men were much taken up with the two girls, though not in an obtrusive way. John thought Fanny especially charming, and Livingstone admired Jane in a sort of wonder and surprise. We may here remark that his whole name is Frank Livingstone Grinnel. We will select the middle name for convenience.
               Toward the end of the evening Livingstone and Jane were thrown together for a few moments by the piano. Naturally the conversation turned upon music, and Jane made some remark upon the performance of a certain public singer, saying:
               "Why, I could do as well as that myself."
               "Could you? Suppose you try. We are ready to hear."
               Without the slightest hesitation or affectation she sat down at the piano and opened Mendelssohn's St. Paul. In a clear natural voice, and with great feeling, she sang 
                     "But the Lord is mindful of his own"—
                  
               
               She paused abruptly.
               "There! That is what I mean. This over-loading the melody with ornaments and inserting notes not written is barbarous."
               "Why did you not finish it? Why stop?"
               She turned upon him and said in a surprised manner, "I cannot finish it. I am not enough of an artist. I cannot reach or express its full meaning."
               Livingstone did not reply. The discovery of so much of feminine loveliness combined with such an artistic temperament struck him as something remarkable, and for a moment he had nothing to say.
               Then Jane came to the rescue, with some remark and the conversation went on again. After some wanderings, Livingstone said:
               "For my part, I think music the one great sorrow of my life."
               "Indeed! How very fine. Do you suffer much?"
               "Yes, I do." Soberly now, "it causes me a great deal of sorrow."
               "How can it? How can that which only affords pleasure bring trouble?"
               "It's pleasurableness is the snare that destroys my happiness."
               "Really, sir. You are too deep for me. You must explain."
               "I shall have to be personal."
               "That is not bad. Tell me about it."
               A warm flush mounted to his temples. Did she really mean that an account of his own experience would interest her?
               "I mean that the pleasure music affords me is so great that it tempts me to desert my duties. The teaching of music is one thing, and its pursuit as an art is another. I must follow the business side of music, and yet the very love of it distracts me. If I were an artist like yourself—"
               "Now, sir, I must really beg you not to say that. An artist I am not and never can be."
               
               "Excuse me, but that bit of song belies your words."
               "Oh! no, indeed it does not. I know how to read music, and I can criticise somewhat, but I am not a genius. Besides, I should not wish to be one."
               "Why not?"
               "They are not happy, or, at least, are not well 
                     ballanced
                     balanced
                   in their happiness."
               "Do you think a genius a very fortunate man?"
               "No I think the average man with common happiness much better off."
               He was slightly vain. He thought himself above the average man, and he was nettled. The remark puzzled him, and he was momentarily at loss for a reply. Said she:
               "Why, look at it. How many artists have been men of unbalanced minds, and one sided education. They are absorbed in art to the neglect of every thing else. In the concert room they are happy and successful. Out of it they are dull, miserable and narrow. There!" she cried with her usual abrupt emphasis. "That is what I think of a musician who is only a musician. It is drawing it pretty strong, but I am honest about it."
               If there was any one thing the young man admired it was frankness. Here he had it, and it only sank him deeper in admiration with its pretty personalty.
               She went on.
               "My view of this matter is this: Music is a great art. If one has a genius for it let him follow it as a profession. At the same time let him not make the usual mistake of thinking it everything. A mere musician is a poor creature. He should also be a man of general culture, and acquainted with men and the world."
               "What if he only has a talent for it?"
               "Let him study it as he does other things. Make it a part of a well balanced education. If he merely likes it let him use it as an accomplishment. He will thereby increase his find of happiness at no great cost. Let him have his regular vocation, and thereto let him add music as an avocation."
               "How about those who have no music in their souls."
               "We need not pity them. God is not so unkind as to deprive one of his children of all sources of happiness. What they do not find in music they will get in something else. Hearing is only one of our five senses. I can imagine a man who finds exquisite delight in perfumes."
               As may be seen this opened a wide field of discussion, and in it they both rapidly made each other's acquaintance. To repeat all that was said or done is not necessary. Jane sang a few songs to the delight of the people present and entirely to Mr. Livingstone Grinnel's pleasurable confusion. He too, added to the entertainment by playing a prelude and fugue from Bach, to Jane's entire satisfaction. She felt sure he must be a splendid fellow to play such music.
               
               As for John and Fanny Dean they somehow found a good deal to say to each other, which reprehensible conduct was not without its sequel as will be seen in due time. About ten the party broke up, and our two young men took their departure with the rest. At eleven-ten John turned off the gas with the vague remark:
               "She is certainly a very charming girl."
               As for Livingstone he reached his room in a very peculiar frame of mind. Instead of going to bed in a sensible fashion, he sat down in his room and gave himself up to a profound meditation. What it was all about can never be known. We have only authority for saying that just as the clock struck midnight he went to bed precipitously with the remark:
               "Of two things I am certain. I have been a fool, and—I love her."
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               One day in the following week our two girls decided to go out shopping. This would not have been a matter of much consequence to us had it not led to a most peculiar meeting. It was nearly noon when they finished shopping and came to a short business street where tucked in between two shops, stood a church with a great stone portico, and long flight of steps leading up to the lofty, and rather forbidding doors. It seemed more like the entrance to some old Greek temple than a Christian Church. They were on their way home, and as they passed the building Jane said:
               "Stop a moment; my old school is in the rear of this church. Let us go in and make a little call on some of the girls."
               Fanny was agreeable, and they left the street and went up a narrow court beside the church. Presently they came to a basement door with a tin sign;— 
                     
                        "Select School for Young Ladies."
                  
               
               Jane rang the bell, and a pretty Miss with much yellow hair, a book in one hand and a half eaten apple in the other, opened the door.
               "Are Jane Fielding and Mary Shaw in?"
               
               "Yes; it is recess. They are not in the school-room, but I'll find them for you."
               "Thank you; there is no need. I will find them myself."
               "Do you know the way about the old place?"
               "Yes, thank you. I attended school here not a great while since. Is Mr. Quilling in the school-room?"
               "Yes, he is lecturing Kate Denny."
               "Poor Kate! I remember her."
               They both entered the narrow entry-way, and Jane said:
               "Say, little girl, is the church open?"
               The yellow-haired opened her blue eyes wide.
               "I don't know. Quilling says the girls are not to go there."
               "Yes, I've heard him say as much many times. Thank you, little one."
               The child shook her yellow curls, sat down on the stairs and gave her mind to her book and her apple. The stairs were full of girls, reading, sucking pickled limes, munching lunches and talking in suppressed voices. The door into the school room stood partly open, and a confused murmur of voices came out. It was plainly recess time and their young ladyships were evidently having a pleasant time in a quiet and very proper manner. The girls on the stairs made way for Jane and Fanny and stared curiously at them as Jane opened a door at the top. To enter this door was against the rules of the select school. Jane pushed on, and in a moment they both stood in the great, dim, dusty church. The door opened directly into the side aisle under the gallery.
               For a moment Fanny could not tell where they were. Directly out of the gloom appeared the head of a young girl rising above one of the pews, She held up a finger, and said in a loud whisper:
               "All right! girls. Everything is serene."
               At once a dozen heads rose above the pews and the sound of half suppressed talk and laughter filled the air.
               "Say! girls, who was parson, and what has become of the bridegroom? Why!—there is Jane, the bride of former days. My love, allow me to welcome you to the wedding."
               The speaker came down the aisle with her hair flying in the wind, and throwing her generous arms around Jane's neck, dragged her into a pew. The boards creaked, and smothered laughter echoed through the solemn old place.
               Fanny looked around in amazement. She looked at the pulpit, and was astonished to see a pretty girl in glasses gravely turning the leaves of the great bible. In a front pew sat a number of girls merrily talking among themselves. She looked up at the organ loft, and was surprised to see a young man unlocking the desk as if to play. The pretty parson in the great pulpit leaned over the edge, and said in a loud whisper:
               "My friends—girls—where is the bridegroom? Who is the stern parent this time? Say, Dolly Cushman are you the bride's father or mother?"
               What an extraordinary proceeding. What could it all mean?
               Just here the organ began to sound. The music was halting, lame, and not particularly interesting. The sound brought Jane's companion to a pause. She said she must really go to the ceremony. As they both came out into the aisle Fanny was introduced, and under the cover of the racket from the organ, the young girl explained that they meant to have the rehearsal of a wedding in the church.
               "You will come, both of you?"
               "When is it to be?" said Fanny. "Who is the bride."
               "I am the bride. It is now. Come and see."
               "Yes," said Jane. "We will attend; we will take seats in the gallery."
               The bride retreated on tiptoe down the aisle, and Jane led the way up into the gallery of the church near the organ. Much taken up with the approaching wedding they gave no heed to the player. The organ boomed and rattled away in a discordant fashion, and down in the shadowy church they saw all the motions of a grand wedding performed in profound silence.
               "Well!" said Fanny in amazement, "I never saw such pranks before."
               "I suppose not. Some girls are dreadfully depraved. I played bride twice. It was great fun. And to think that in all the gay times we had in the old church, Quilling never found us out."
               "Quilling?"
               "He is the master of the school. He used to think us model girls. Dear old man, he never attended a wedding."
               "Why did you not go down nearer them?"
               "My love! Just think, if Quilling should happen to come in! How particularly dreadful it would be."
               For a few moments they sat in silence looking at the performance below. Presently Fanny's eye wandered to the organ, and she said with a startled expression:
               "Jane!"
               "Well, dear?"
               "Jane. Do you—hear the organ?"
               "Yes, it is some pupil practicing."
               "Jane! Look!"
               "Where?"
               "At the organ."
               She turned her eyes carelessly towards the boy mounted on the high seat at the keyboard.
               "What of it. It is some strange boy."
               "Don't you know him?"
               "Never saw him before."
               "It is Frank."
               "Frank? Frank who?"
               "Don't you remember Frank Brown? The boy we met at the concert last winter. Don't you remember you told him to go to town if he wished to study music? He left home soon after that and nobody could tell what became of him."
               "Oh! I remember him now. I mean to speak to him."
               "No! No! I would not for the world!"
               "Yes I shall, he is going fearfully wrong, and I mean to tell him so."
               "Jane, for heaven's sake stop. What will he say?"
               "If he is the fellow I think he is, he will thank me. There was more in that boy than you imagined."
               "What will the young ladies down stairs say?"
               "I neither know, nor care. I shall do nothing wrong, you may be sure."
               Jane rose and walked softly between the seats, and entering the choir, presently stood behind the lad, and looked over his shoulder at his music book. Fanny reluctantly followed and stood near by in silence.
               Not a word was said. The boy began to be nervous. He stumbled over his work. Then, without taking his eyes from his book, or lifting his fingers from the keys he said:
               "Go away, please, I cannot be disturbed."
               "Oh Frank," said Fanny.
               He stopped abruptly, and turning round seemed for a moment at a loss for words.
               "Excuse me—I—I thought it was some of those dreadful creatures who romp in the church during their recess. I wish it was, at any other hour. How do you do Fan—excuse me, Miss Dean."
               "I am well, thank you. This is indeed a surprise. How came you here?"
               "This is my hour for practice. This is Miss—?"
               "Kingsford," said Jane. "I have not seen you for a long time, sir. When did you leave Rockford?"
               "Months ago. I followed your advice, and came to the city to continue my studies. I told you I meant to an organist, and I have done it. That is—I mean I am trying to be one."
               "I am glad of it. Have you a good teacher?"
               "Yes, I think he is a good teacher. He taught me to play in church, and got me a small situation. I play every Sunday."
               "Then you like it very much?"
               "Yes, I mean to have another teacher as soon as I can afford it."
               "That will be a good idea. Your present teacher is not a very good one."
               He looked up astonished.
               "How do you know? Have you seen him."
               "I only judge from the music he gives you. It is very poor rand trivial."
               "Oh! Jane," cried Fanny in alarm. "How can you say such things?"
               "Because it is the truth. I do not mean to be rude—"
               Just here the sound of heavy footsteps was heard in the dim church below. They paused and looked over the gallery railings to see what it meant. The girls were clustered round the pulpit intent on their wedding, and up the aisle moved the stooping figure of a man in rusty black.
               "Quilling," said Jane in a whisper.
               "Oh! dear," said Fanny, "they are caught."
               "I am glad of it," said the boy, "they annoy me. They rush by my seat, and keep up a dreadful whispering half my practice hour."
               The wedding had reached the end. The bride in becoming tears took the groom's arm and started up the aisle followed by the parents, relatives and dear friends, and the pretty parson sat down. The procession in the middle of the broad aisle.
               A sudden halt. Confusion and dismay! Caught in the act. For a moment they stood facing each other, and then Mr. Quilling stepped into a pew and said:
               "Young ladies, I am greatly surprised at this conduct. Had you merely broken my rule against coming into the church I should have overlooked the offence. But this! I cannot find words to express my condemnation. You were pretending to caricature divine service?"
               "No, sir," said Mary Shaw, "we are doing very wrong, no doubt, but we are not doing that. It was only a little innocent fun—a mock wedding."
               Just here a curly head rose above the pulpit, and a pair of black eyes surveyed the melancholy end of the performance through a pair of eye glasses and at once disappeared.
               "Young ladies, I cannot discuss this affair with you here. You may return to the school room and after the session you may meet me in my private room."
               With downcast eyes and rueful faces the procession filed past, and disappeared beneath the gallery, while Mr. Quilling followed slowly after. As he went out of sight the curly head rose in the pulpit. A handkerchief was waved in solemn triumph and a forgotten culprit came tripping gaily down the pulpit stairs.
               "There!" cried the boy, "I am glad of it. That is the end of their fun and my disturbance. They are perfectly unbearable some days, racing about the church and talking in irritating whispers."
               "Do you practice here every day?" said Jane.
               "Yes. I live so far up town that my employers give me an hour and a quarter for my nooning. Instead of going home I come here for my lessons and practice. The boy who blows the organ for me brings my dinner, and I eat it here."
               "Is it not very cold at times!" said Fanny.
               "Yes, it is rather cool here at times. It is warm on Saturdays, but other days my fingers ache. I try not to mind it for I must learn as fast as I can."
               "You like music very much?"
               "Yes, I hope to be a good organist. I do not expect to make much more than my living at it. It is not a profession one can win a fortune in. I shall not mind, so long as I can play—but really I must go. My time is nearly up."
               
               "Wait a moment," said Jane. "Can't you get a better teacher."
               "No, I cannot afford it. It takes all I earn now."
               "Oh! I am sorry, for I think you are going wrong. Your music is piano music not organ music. Do you never play any thing from Bach?"
               "Bach! who is he?"
               "The father of all the organists. Unless you learn his style, and can play his fugues you will never be a great organist. The music book you have there is the poorest of poor things, and unsuited to such a noble instrument as the organ. I liked your combination of stops. I suppose it was printed in the book, or your teacher gave it to you."
               "No. I invented it."
               "Indeed! It shows a musical temperament. Stay a moment, why don't you go to Europe and hear the great masters' music, and see some of the best organists?"
               The boy was utterly bewildered at the boldness and magnificence of such an idea. Then he smiled in a hopeless way, and began to shut up the organ in silence. Europe! Go to Europe! What was the girl thinking about?
               "I know what you are thinking about. You fear the expense."
               How did she guess his very thoughts?
               "Money. No money. Of what consequence is it? Where there is a will there is a way. Work your passage over in a sailing ship. Get work in London, as you do here. Live on crusts. Work. Do anything, only get the education you want. Borrow some money. Run in debt, and then fight your way out. Go to Westminster Abbey, and the other churches three times every Sunday, and by hearing the music, steal knowledge from the masters in spite of themselves."
               Fanny and the boy were lost in wonder at this speech. Never had they seen any young girl so inspired with courage and determination. Fired with enthusiasm for her art she went on talking rapidly with brightening eyes and animated gestures.
               "I wish you could hear the music in Westminster, as I did once."
               "We had an invitation to sit with the organist in the organ loft. Let me tell you about it."
               "We called at the old gentleman's house in Dean's yard one Sunday afternoon, and just before service he escorted us through the crumbling cloisters, and we entered the Abbey through a small side door. We passed along the shadowy south aisle till we came to the screen in the middle of the nave. The old gentleman led us through a small dark room, and up a steep stairway, and we came out on a platform reaching across the nave from side to side. We found the organ to be in three parts; a small organ in the middle of the gallery facing the chancel, and two large organs tucked in under the pointed arches of the aisles. The key board was in the middle, while on the floor were piled the larger pipes, too tall to stand upright under the arches.
               "It was not a good place to hear as the organ drowned the voices of the choir down in the church. I cannot describe the music. It was like the solemn old Abbey itself. Grand, aspiring and Gothic. It may have been the place, the dim aisles, the suggestive arches leading away into wonderful vistas, the ghostly monuments, and the associations of the place, but certainly I was never so affected by music in my life. It was magnificent, religious and uplifting. No weak adaptations from the opera. Solid chorals, intricate fugues and inspired choruses from the masters. I watched the splendid old organist, and noticed the music books he used. Handel, Bach and Mendelssohn were there."
               "The music seemed a part of the place. Noble, enduring and a marvel of beauty; certainly if architecture is frozen music, this music was melted Gothic architecture. To see the Abbey is worth one life time, and to hear the music worth another. But, what I wish to tell you about is what Mr. Turle said on the sidewalk after the service was over, he went out with our party and wished us to stop at the great west portal to gaze once more at the matchless interior. Then we went through the great black door and came out into the sunshine. As we stood on the sidewalk an elderly gentleman, tall, erect, and fine looking, came up and spoke to Mr. Turle. We stood one side and overheard the conversation. It seemed there had been a certain organ performance at St. Paul's the week before when the player tried to reproduce an orchestral piece on the organ.
               "I did not like it," said the Abbey organist. "You cannot play such music on the organ. It was undignified and trivial. On the organ, play organ music."
               "I quite agree with you," replied the gentleman. "Bach and Handel are our true masters. Their style of music is the only one we should use."
               Then after a few common places he went away.
               "That was Hullah, the composer," said Mr Turle.
               Just here a small boy appeared from behind the organ, and said:
               "Here, Mr. Brown, is yer dinner."
               "Thank you, Tommy, I can't eat it to day, I am late now."
               "I hope I have not kept you from your business. You must be late."
               "Oh! I fancy I am not very late. Yet I must go at once."
               He led the way down stairs to the door leading into the school entry way. Near the door a young girl sat on the stairs crying bitterly.
               "What is the matter?" said Jane.
               "Oh we are locked in. It is dreadful!"
               
               "That is nothing. I have a key."
               So saying the boy unlocked the door, and they all passed out with the young girl wiping her eyes and rearranging her curls.
               "What is the matter, my dear?" said Jane.
               "Nothing, Miss. I was the parson, and—Mr. Quilling will tell father—and—oh! it was dreadful. I'll never do so again—no never—never—never."
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               A wholesale drug store in a down town street. At the door a fat, leathery faced man talking to a thin pale faced boy clad in the drug and paint stained clothes commonly worn by employees in such places.
               The man:—"We cannot allow it. Your time belongs to us, and you must not have any side issues to take up your attention."
               "It does not take up my attention. You do not use my time in the night or on Sundays. May I not spend it as I wish then?"
               "No, you are to work for us, or leave the store. You are an arrant little fool to study music, and unless you can give it all up you may leave our employ."
               "Oh! Sir. Don't say that. It does not in any way interfere with your work. Ask the foreman and the clerks if I do not—"
               "Do you presume to argue with me, sir? Clear out. Go get your pay, and be off. Much good may your music do you."
               
               Without a word the boy retreated into the store, and the man chuckled to himself to think that the sixteenth "boy" was so easily sent away. It was his custom to invite boys with fair promises of "learning the business," to come to his store for a year, at "nothing a month and doubtful at that." When the year was up the "boys" were dismissed on some pretext, and so the firm got all their disagreeable work done for little or nothing. By a vigorous use of this ingenious plan as applied to "boys," and porters, the firm had grown rich. This boy being poor and coming well recommended, had been favored with the large salary of one dollar a week.
               Soon after the lad might have been seen walking slowly up the street with a bundle of clothes on his arm, and with a stone in his heart. He soon cleared the business part of the town, and prepared for his two mile tramp to the humble home of his aunt, Sally Brown.
               Life was a dreary round of disappointments. Injustice and selfishness ruled the world. His every attempt was a failure, and he forever went wrong. Not the right teacher, the girl had said. Very little difference did it make. He must go without any teacher now. He had just enough money to pay up square—that is, if the teacher was willing to stop in the middle of the quarter. What if he demanded full pay? Oh! He would not be so mean as that.
               As he came to a street crossing a crowd of teams compelled him to pause a moment. While waiting his eye fell on a poster on a dead wall.
               
                  "CUNARD STEAMSHIPS, For Liverpool and Queenstown direct, Sailing every Saturday. Cabin passage, $80.00, Steerage, $30.00, etc., etc."
               
               He read this mechanically and then passed on. After a while he reached a plain two story brick house in a quiet street, and opening the door he went in. He threw his bundle on a chair, and went slowly through the entry to the kitchen.
               He opened the door and entered. It was a small room plainly and neatly furnished. There was a shiny cooking stove, white curtain at the one window, and in a wooden easy chair by it sat an old lady in faded black, silently mending a blue worsted stocking. As he entered she looked up and drooped her work in a little fright.
               "Frank! What brings you home at this hour? Are you sick?"
               "No, Aunt."
               "What is the matter? You are as pale as a sheet. Have you had your dinner?"
               "No," said the boy sinking down in a chair.
               "Why not? I gave it to Tommy."
               "I had not time to eat. Oh! Aunt Sally I have seen her—and she says,—and oh! I could not help it, but I have lost my place at the store."
               
               Aunt Sally rose, laid aside her work, and went to the cupboard, and in silence spread a lunch of bread and cold meat on the table.
               "Eat," said she. "You are faint. When you have finished we will talk this thing over."
               He drew up to the table, and broke off a morsel of bread and tried to eat it. Presently the tears began to trickle down his face. He used his handkerchief freely, and still they flowed. Then he swallowed a glass of water, and laying his arm on the table, laid his head upon it and gave way to his misery.
               Aunt Sally sat down and taking out a letter read it through, then folding it up she laid it on the table. Seeing that he was not inclined to eat she set the things one side, and resumed her mending.
               The twilight came on and the room grew dark. She lighted a lamp and taking the worsted stocking again she said softly:
               "Now, Frank. Tell me how it happened."
               The boy sat up, brushed back his tumbled hair, and in a few words told her how the girls had interrupted him at his practicing, and that he was late at the store, His employer noticed it, and as the boy could not tell an untruth it all came out, and his dismissal followed at once. He told her all. What Jane had said, and about the wedding.
               She heard it in silence, and when he had finished there was a pause. She took the letter and read it through again while the boy watched her in silence.
               Presently she said:
               "Frank. Have you not gone far enough. You have twice listened to what these girls have said. You have followed their advice, and you see the result. I, too, believed them, and have, as you know, tried to help you on."
               "Yes, Aunt, you have been very kind to me. I could have done nothing without you. I do not see how I can ever repay you."
               "I do not wish it. I thought you had a talent for music and helped you try the experiment. I have been thinking much about it lately, and now think you had better give all up."
               "Give it up! I'll never give it up. I'll starve first. What? Not play the organ any more? Work all the time in a hateful store? No. I'll go back to the farm first, and play in the little church for nothing, and when I have earned enough I will have a better teacher."
               "And what then?"
               "Why, then I will get a place in some church. Some organists have as much as six hundred dollars a year. I can live on that. I know I can."
               Aunt Sally smiled drearily.
               "My poor boy. You don't know what you are saying. You have made a mistake, and so have I. It will take years and years for you to earn such a position. Had you not better give up music, and go home. Here is a letter from your father. He wishes you to return and help carry on the farm."
               
               "I do n't care if he does," cried the boy in desperation, "I will never go back and be sneered at by him about my music. You remember about the organ you gave me. Did he not put it out of the house as a nuisance. Then, what shall I say to her?"
               "Who?"
               "Miss Kingsford. She said I would succeed if I tried. 'Where there is a will, there is a way.' Those were her very words."
               "You have tried, now these eighteen months. I moved to the city that you might have a home, and helped pay for your instruction, and it all seems to be useless. Your little salary at the church hardly clothes you. And now the store is gone."
               "Oh! Aunt! Aunt! How can you say such things?"
               She replied nothing. He went on talking rapidly.
               "I know what I will do. I will go abroad. She said it would be a good thing."
               "She, again! You are crazy to listen to her. Go abroad! What folly! Frank, I have tried to help you but my patience is wearing out. She is a rich girl and these ideas seem play to her. I dare say she is a vain, heartless creature—"
               "Stop!" cried the boy. "I will not hear—what am I saying? Pardon me, Aunt. Yes, she is rich. How I wish I had money. Wouldn't I have a good teacher then."
               He paused abruptly and stood gazing at the lamp for some time in silence. Presently he said slowly; "Aunt, do me one more favor. May I sell the reed organ you gave me?"
               "Yes. It is your own. Do what you please with it."
               Another long pause. Aunt Sally:
               "I am quite willing you should sell it. I am glad you have reached a sensible conclusion in this matter."
               "So am I," replied the boy, and then he lighted a lamp and left the room.
               The moment he disappeared she folded her hands meekly in her lap and began to talk to herself after the fashion of people who are partially deaf.
               "Poor boy! Poor boy! I wish I had a little more money that I might help him. When I die he shall have my little all. I have expected it all along. He is utterly unfit for business or trade. He knows nothing, and cares for nothing save his music. Poor child! It will be well with him when he reaches heaven. Then he can have his way, and play some organ to his heart's content. I dare say there will be something of the kind in heaven for such as he."
               Could we have followed the boy to his room we would have seen a most extraordinary sight. In one corner stood the chamber furniture, with the table covered with books and music. By the window was a work bench, and on it at number of tools, and a set of second-hand piano keys. Sundry rolls of wire and pieces of wood littered the floor under the bench.
               
               He sat the lamp on the bench, and taking a screwdriver began to take out a row of small brass screws in the front of the unfinished key-board.
               "Good bye, old practice board. If I could have carried out my idea, it would have made a fine thing to practice on. I could carry the key-board round under my arm, and though it don't make very good sounds, it would have answered to practice on."
               Then he fell into a brown study. Presently he took a bit of chalk and began to do sums on the bench. Here are some of them.
               
                  
                     
                        Steerage Passage,
                        $30.
                     
                     
                        New Coat,
                        10.
                     
                     
                        Shoes,
                        5.
                     
                     
                        Fare to London, 3d class,
                        4.
                     
                     
                        Board in London at a $5 week.
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        $49.
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        Organ,
                        $40.
                     
                     
                        Tools,
                        15.
                     
                     
                        Cash,
                        6.
                     
                     
                        
                        $61.
                     
                  
               
               What they may mean time must show.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               Mr. Kingsford's library in his city house. The Spring and Summer have passed and it is October. In all that time little or nothing has occurred in the life of our Jane. Her friend Fanny has lost her father, and in the hope of obtaining a support from music, she has gone abroad to study it.
               Mr. Kingsford sits in his library chair, with his back to the window, his fingers twisted tightly together, and his elbows against his coat. His face seems black and angry, and he glares at the open fire in an indignant, protesting way.
               The door opens and a young man enters, bows stiffly and takes a seat. The old gentleman is frigid and severely polite, and the young man is fluttered and ill at ease. They begin to talk, and the sound of their voices penetrates vaguely into the room overhead where sits Jane with disordered hair, tear glistening eyes, and a great trouble in her heart. She hears the voices below, and moans to herself in a crushed, helpless way.
               
               "All gone. Julia Ward, my school girl friend, sunk out of sight in her bitter poverty. Fanny gone abroad, and John—he is her lover, I think—gone to the South Pacific. My friends all seem to leave me one after another, and now—my Livingston has incurred my father's displeasure. Oh! if he could have only waited, things might have changed in time. I knew they never could agree when it came to the point."
               The door opens softly, and her mother comes in. She is a fashionable woman much given to the adornment of the body, and the solemn duties of society. She loves herself, and it is to be supposed that she loves her only child. She sometimes thinks her daughter an odd chicken—a strange child not cast in the usual mould, and she therefore holds her in a certain undefined dread. Jane is a case of skipped inheritance. Beyond a liberal allowance of her father's persistence, she has nothing in common with her parents. She is merely her grandfather and mother rolled into one and reproduced in a peculiar and most engaging form.
               Her mother seldom sympathizes with her in her notions about people and things, nor does she understand her love of music. The result of all of this appears in Jane's independent and self-reliant spirit, and willful imperious nature. In a conventional way Jane is a spoiled child. Aside from this she is a noble, but untried young woman.
               Heaven, for her best good, has heated the furnace seven times hotter, and is waiting like the good jeweler to see the gold melt and the dross burn away that it may see its face in the molten metal. The blow has come upon her weakest side. Having received little love from her parents, her affections, which would be gratified in some way, turned first to animals, and then to girl friends. As this did not satisfy her wholly she turned to music, and for a while it helped her lonely nature. Then the old, old story was told to her and she was satisfied. It was all she wanted. The young musician we saw introduced to her became her lover. They were engaged, and this day young Mr. Grinnel had sent a letter to her father asking for her hand, and had now called in person for the answer.
               Her father had made up his mind instantly, and had given his answer to her mother. Mrs. Kingsford had now come in to communicate it to Jane. She sat down, brushed out her dress in a skilful and very proper manner, and said:
               "Jane, I am astonished! How could you do such an exceedingly improper thing?"
               "Improper! Improper, mother, to love him? I do love him, for all that."
               "Jane!"
               "Well, mother, is it wrong to love people?"
               "It is very peculiar. What will people say?"
               "I am sure I neither know nor care. I have done no wrong. He is a good, true, and noble fellow, and I love him dearly."
               "Jane, this is too shocking. Do you know he is a—"
               
               "A what?"
               "Good heavens! What a temper you have! He is a musician, child. Will you marry a musician? Do you remember your own words? Do you remember that you said a musician was a poor creature?"
               "Mother," said Jane rising and brushing her hair behind her ears in a defiant, desperate manner. "Mother, are you too turning against me? Will you drive me to say something cruel? He is indeed a musician, but he is a scholar and a gentleman—"
               "And as poor as a church mouse."
               "Yes. I think he is poor, and I am almost glad of it. Of what good has our money been to us? Of none at all, except to make us proud—if that is a good thing. Besides, he has talent, and can easily make his way in the world. Grandfather came to the city on foot and a hundred dollars in debt. He died pretty rich one would think from the looks of this room."
               "What of that? It will be years before he can give you a home you would be happy in. You were not intended for a poor man's wife, Jane. You want your horse, and piano, and what not. Can you do without these?"
               "Yes, for the love of him. Besides, I can wait."
               Her mother smiled incredulously, and for a moment was silent. She was determined her daughter should break off this, to her, exceedingly improper match, and having failed on one tack was aiming for another.
               Just here the confused murmur of voices below grew louder, and there were footsteps in the entry way. Jane started up as if to go to the door, and her mother rose hastily in a little fright. The door stood open, and up the stair-way came a stray word or two. Merely formal words of departure. Then the great door closed, and it was very still. She heard her father's footsteps on the marble floor, and then the library door was closed, and a great silence fell on the house.
               Jane looked about the room in an absent, listless way. Her lips parted and she tried to speak. Her throat was parched, and her lips dry. There was a bright glitter in her brown eyes, and her face was as ashes. She said nothing, neither did she cry out, or faint.
               Her mother looked at her in alarm. Nothing happened for a moment. The child whispered to herself "gone—gone," and fled away to her own room.
               With too much health and sense to faint, too sorely tried to rebel she hid her sorrow and tried to make repression answer for suppression. We may not enter her room. All we can do is to wait and see how her character was affected by her first cross.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               The upper chamber we have seen before. The tenant sits by the window gazing absently at the beautiful spire with the iron cross wreathed in its crown of gilded ivy leaves.
               "Alas! my cross is bare, and has no crown. Neither is it gilded, nor do the birds light upon it and sing, and it is very heavy."
               He turned and gazed at the sun sinking behind lurid clouds in the west. Far to the east among the shipping a dark red flag with a black square in the center fluttered in the breeze. An ominous banner, warning of storm and calamity. The sun shone out fierce and red for an instant. The cross blazed as with fire, and stood bold and sharp against the gloomy clouds. Suddenly it grew dark, and the great wind harp of telegraph wires that stretched over the building began to moan and sigh fitfully. What heavy tales of sorrow were they whispering round the world? The roof acted as a sounding board, and the sound swelled out into a deep roar and then died away into a vague murmur.
               He had heard it many a time without a care. Now it seemed to fill him with apprehension. What were the wires saying? What new calamity was abroad in the night?
               He turned from the window and lighted the lamp over the table, and the light fell brilliantly on the keys of the open piano. He gazed at the keys earnestly for a few moments, and then gravely shutting down the cover turned his back upon the instrument. Resting his head on his hands he sat down at the table and gave himself up to sorrowful thoughts.
               He had arrived at a crisis in his life. His path divided here, and he must choose one of two ways. On one side, music, on the other, money.
               Life was a strange muddle. In the story books, men fought dragons and won fair maidens, in a single tilt. Rich uncles suddenly came home from an impossible India just in the nick of time; young men found purses in the streets, and stern and heartless parents were always defeated somehow. In this hard actual fact life, nothing of the kind ever happened. It is work for a bare living, and give up your loves. Fashion and money were the only adorable things. Music was a snare, and musicians were a by-word. The rich heard and applauded, and then kicked the players out of the house. A musician could not sit in their fashionable churches nor be buried in church-yards sacred to monumental fibs and rich men's—. How long he would have raved in this strain we cannot say. We can forgive his outburst against his seemingly unjust burden. His sorrow was great, so great indeed that he did not quite understand it, and his mind wandered helplessly about, trying to grasp it, yet shrinking from the touch. Fortunately, just then, the great bell in St. Mary's struck seven. He started up suddenly.
               "Yes, work. Rehearsal again. Perhaps it is well. Work is the best cure for sorrow."
               He put on his things and went out. He found his way to a large hall where a noisy choir, talking and laughing, sat as if waiting for the conductor. He nodded familiarly to the ladies, and exchanged a word or two with the gentleman at the piano. He mounted the conductor's stand, took the white baton, and called the choir to order. As he stood there he certainly presented a not unattractive appearance. Intelligent, cultivated, and prepossessing, he wielded his baton skillfully, and the choir obeyed him with enthusiasm. While he goes on with his rehearsal, we may consider his case.
               Born of respectable parents in moderate circumstances, he had early displayed a talent for music. He was not by any means a genius. It was mere talent. Had he been brought up in a scientific atmosphere he would have been a successful savant. Had his father been an engineer, the boy doubtless would have developed into an engineer, bridge builder, or surveyor, with perhaps a position above the average. His mother was a true musician and had brought him up in a musical atmosphere. His father had spent his little all in giving him a first-class education, and his mother directed his artistic studies. At twenty-one he found himself free, and without a dollar to his name. Music being to his taste he had taken it up as a profession. In it he had with much toil won a very fair position and nothing more. He had an income of perhaps fifteen hundred dollars a year, and was slowly doing better. He was universally respected and so far all was well.
               Then came what some people thought the one blunder of his life. He met our Jane, and loved her. He presumed to love a rich girl. His prospects were hopeful; but she was an heiress. In the eyes of certain people this was a grievous piece of presumption on his part. In Jane's love-lighted eyes, and in the eyes of other clear-sighted people, there was nothing wrong whatever about it. If he could win her and if she cared for him, why interfere? Will the fashionable heavens fall, and will the atmosphere of high life be poisoned if such an alliance be consummated? It remains to be seen.
               Could he not have found a girl in humble circumstances? My dear, when you ask such questions, you show your ignorance of love. Love is like lightning, it strikes in unexpected places, splits the log cabin and shivers the church steeple. Love is the most unconventional being in the world. He cares little for rich or poor, and flings his arrows about in a reckless manner eminently puzzling to some people, and shocking to others.
               The rehearsal came to an end, as everything else will. It had not been a successful evening. Somehow, things had gone wrong, and the young conductor stepped down from his stand weary, heart-sick, and faint. All the evening long he had tried to drown the muttering of the storm in his heart, and he knew he had failed.
               How he got home he never knew. The watchman who let him in stared at him in alarm, and asked if he should call the doctor. "No," and he threw himself into the elevator, and was dragged up to the seventh story. The elevator boy helped him to his room, and he sank down in a chair by the window.
               The telegraph wires sighed and moaned on the house top. The sash rattled, and the rain dashed on the glass. Afar off, over the house top gleamed a baleful red light, a signal of storm and danger. The lightning blazed, and the fire alarm bells jangled harshly in unison with the thunder. Weary and heart-sick the man sat alone in the midst of the furious storm, till worn out he happily fell asleep.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               St. Martin's Lane, London, W. C. A dark, crowded street with grimy shops on both sides and a procession of omnibuses and vans crowding the narrow way. Cheap green-grocers, shops, gin-palaces, bird-stores and tin shops mingled in the usual London confusion. Between a beer shop and a coffin warehouse, and under a huge sign, "Watkins Entire," is a little black archway with a tin sign on the corner, "J. Stubbles, Organ builder."
               In London we expect blackness and dirt, and we enter the archway with a certain hardy indifference. The place is damp and cold, and our footsteps echo strangely. We come to a tank of a yard, and look up as out of a well, at the yellow sky, and see where the smoke-stained sunlight penetrates half way down between the old buildings. The roar of the street is dulled, and we take our way through the yard till we come to a door in what appears to be a carpenter's shop. It is a manufactory of church organs. It seems hardly possible that such beautiful and artistic things can come from such a gloomy little place. How do they manage to bring the long pipes out of such a narrow yard?
               We enter the place and find the workmen setting up a small church organ. On the floor sits a young man engaged in making the connection between different parts of the action. He is a common workman, a kind of general helper. He seems bright and active, and the workmen talk to him familiarly and pleasantly. He is a general favorite with both master and men.
               Presently he rises and we recognize the farmer's boy from America, the lad who stole his employer's unemployed hours to study music, the young man who ran away and came out as steerage passenger in an Atlantic steamer—Frank Brown, by name.
               As might be supposed, he has, in a measure failed in his intention of studying music. He arrived in London only to find that he could not get employment and study at the same time. The English were less liberal than the Americans. Then every place was full. In an old country where there are two waiting for every place, to get in was next to impossible. The labor market was crowded to suffocation and wages were at the starvation point.
               Instead of giving up in despair he resolved to turn his mechanical genius to some account. He would take up the carpenter's trade. He saw the little sign at the arch as he passed through St. Martin's lane, and boldly went in and offered his services. He concluded that Franklin's example was not a bad one. In the organ factory he could support himself and pick up a little something about his art. Franklin thought that in a printer's office, he could get a chance to read stray leaves of knowledge, and surely a knowledge of how an organ was made would be of great value to an organist.
               By a lucky chance he did get employment at wages just sufficient to keep body and soul reasonably together. He began at the very bottom and resolved to work up. To his dismay he found that in England such a thing was nearly impossible. Labor is subdivided. One man does one thing, and no other. That is his work for life. His fellow workmen resented the young man's efforts to rise and bade him mind his place and keep it.
               However, this did not prevent him from keeping his eyes open and learning by observation the whole theory and practice of organ building. Moreover, he won his employer's heart in a most singular way.
               He was put one day to a certain bench to do another man's work for a day, as the man was absent. He looked over the man's awkward and inefficient tools and began to work upon a small piece of carving with them. The work was simple, yet he could not get on. The tools were so ill adapted to the work he began to wonder how the man did anything at all. That the workman really turned out good carved work was an evidence of his skill in surmounting difficulties.
               The Swiss carver with a rude jackknife turns out wooden carvings that are the admiration of the world. It is the same with the English workman. He is skilled in spite of his tools. At noon the young American came into his employer's office, and said he wished to say a word or two in private.
               The old gray-haired man looked keenly at the young fellow and said:
               "Is it anything against the men?"
               "No sir, I merely wished to know if you have no better carving tools. The carver's tools are so poor and old fashioned I can do nothing with them."
               The old fellow was dumfounded at the audacity of such an idea. He hemmed and coughed—then he shut the door carefully and said:
               "Young man those are the best tools in the world. I bought them myself more than ten years ago. Batkins has used them and I know I can."
               "Perhaps so, but for all that they are very inferior to American tools."
               "American tools, there are no tools in America. 
                     It it
                     It
                   all bears and woods there and they have no tools."
               "Excuse me sir, the mechanics of America use far better tools than anything you have. Now if you will give me a few pieces of steel I will make at your forge some tools that will do better work, in half the time."
               The old man fell into a brown study. Presently he seemed to wake up and said in a whisper:
               "If what you say is true you must not lisp a word of it to a soul. Go to work this afternoon and to-night you just come back to the shop about ten o'clock and I will let you try. If you can make a better tool for me, I will—well let me see—I'll—"
               "Raise my wages," suggested the young man.
               "Yes, I'll raise your wages."
               At ten o'clock that night the young man stole cautiously into St. Martin's lane. His fellow workmen were idling on the side walk or drinking in the beer palaces. He waited about for a few moments till he saw a chance of slipping into the factory unobserved. Presently the usual gin-incited street row began, and in the confusion he gained the shop. His master opened the door. He held a dark lantern in his hand, and after fastening up the door, cautiously led the way to the little brick forge where the iron work used in the organ building was made.
               The young fellow rolled up his sleeves, started the fire, cut some iron rods into ten inch lengths and when the fire was up he forged them into certain curious shapes.
               The master watched him with the greatest interest. In about an hour six of the tools were tempered and sharpened. Fixing a block of unfinished carvings into a vice he began to cut out the pattern traced upon it. The chips flew about and a rose grew out of the wood quickly. The old man's breath came quick and hard. He looked furtively round the room. He turned the dark side of his lantern towards the window, and a wild and selfish thought came into his withered old heart.
               The tools, rude and unfinished as they were, performed good work. He began to wonder why no one had thought of giving such shapes to carving tools. "Wait a bit sir," said the young man cheerfully, "Wait till to-morrow and let me make suitable handles to these tools and they will do better still. Besides I want about twenty more patterns to do all kinds of carving."
               The old fellow looked curiously at the frank, open face of the workman, brightly lighted by the lantern. His own was in the shadow. Had the young man been able to see it he would have been puzzled and perhaps surprised.
               Suddenly the chimes of Westminster Palace began to ring for midnight. St. Martin's struck twelve, and then over the black city came the deep boom of the mighty bell in the clock tower of the palace. The young man laid down his tools and his employer shook him warmly by the hand.
               "Not a word of this must be breathed to a living soul in England."
               Then hastily gathering up the unfinished tools he thrust something into the hands of the workman and let him out into the night.
               That night the tools were hidden under the floor of the master's private den of an office.
               When our hero reached his mean little lodging room in Long Acre, he looked at the coin in his hand. It was a gold sovereign.
               "Ho! Ho! There is money in it is there? I must think this little matter over." He sat down on the bed to think. The candle went out, still he sat there absorbed in meditation.
               Now, there was nothing wonderful in this little feat of mechanics. In carving, as in dentistry, a man may make and use a great variety of tools. An ingenious carver can forge a tool for particular work to suit himself, and each man may have a set of tools, more or less different from any other set. There will be certain general points of resemblance; but in details they may differ widely. An intelligent dentist will make a tool for a particular piece of surgery while the patient is waiting, use it once, and for the next patient twist the whole into a new form.
               Our Frank knew this, and knew that tools for carving wood could be manipulated in the same way, and he had merely made these tools just as the work suggested. He wished to carve a flower, and knew that the tools must have certain twists and curves to get round the wooden petals.
               The next day was Sunday. He awoke quite late with the sun shining brightly in at his window. He could not afford to be late to his stolen music lesson. He put on his best clothes quickly, and crept down the dingy stairs of the tumble down tenement where his poverty compelled him to live. Reaching the street he turned to the left and went towards St. Martin's lane. He found a bake shop open, and entering he bought a loaf of bread for six-pence, and four Bath bunns for four-pence. The bread for breakfast and the bunns for dinner. He ate the bread, standing in the shop, and bought a tumbler of milk for two-pence. Then stuffing the bunns in his pockets he sallied into St. Martin's lane. He passed the dismal factory entrance and came to Trafalgar square.
               The fountain played in the yellow sunlight. The omnibuses rattled passed full of well dressed people. Carriages with dainty footmen drew up to the door of "St. Martin's in the Fields," and fashionable ladies went up the worn stone steps. Everything was lively, and the people seemed well fed, happy, and comfortable. He knew that behind him in the purlieus of Leicester Square and Long Acre were thousands in as deep poverty as he, yet somehow, he imagined he was the only poor person in London.
               He looked down towards the Strand and saw a sign on the corner: "Soles Brothers & Co., American Bankers." It made his heart ache. America. Dear America! His far away home. Should he ever be able to get the education he desired, and should he ever be able to return to his native land? The mere words "American bankers" had made him homesick. Brushing away a tear he crossed the square, came to Charing Cross and went on to Whitehall. He passed the great black horses with their living statues, at the "Horse Guards," without noticing them; passed unheeding the great government buildings, and only when he reached the end of Parliament St., did he look up. He glanced at the great white clock in the tower of Westminster Palace, noticed that it lacked but ten minutes of service time, and hastened on toward the Abbey on the opposite side of the great open square. It hardly seemed the Sabbath. Cabs, omnibuses, and pleasure carriages filled the way, and the white gloved police rushed frantically about trying to keep the surging mass in order. The sidewalks were filled, and Westminster bridge was thronged with pleasure seekers going to the river boats or diving into the caverns of the underground railway.
               It was a relief to escape into the Abbey yard. He approached the northern entrance and looked up. Vast, black, gloomy, and repulsive, the Abbey towered above him. It was familiar enough, yet he paused once more to gaze upon its forbidding yet wonderful grandeur. Doubtless photographs have made it familiar to you also. It cannot be described. It must be seen again and again. Should you cross the ocean and see nothing else it would be a profitable journey. It is the one great thing to see in England. Black with London smoke, worn with age, defaced and mutilated, it still stands a poem in stone, a frozen symphony. The severe towers are the moderato introduction. The main building is the Andante Maestoso. The transept is the aspiring Allegro, and the choir, a bewildering maze of buttresses, pointed windows, rich carvings, and flowery tracery is the climax vivace presto, joyfulness, praise, and music, in stone.
               Thus thinking and so fancifully naming the different parts of the building he entered the narrow door, found a seat on the hard wooden benches, and sat down. It was the last seat next the wall. There was a monumental tablet beside him and he wearily leaned his head against it, and closing his eyes gave himself up to. day dreaming. People came in and filled the seats. The air shook, and the deep roll of the organ stole through the solemn arches.
               He heeded not the crowd for the music filled his soul. The people pushed nearer, and opening his eyes he found a young lady closely veiled sitting next to him. She had no prayer book, and he instinctively knew she was not English—French, perhaps.
               What consequence was it? The service was about to begin, and he must give his whole attention. On Sundays, only, did he have an opportunity to hear music, and he must make the most of his chances. In spite of his poverty and failure he still firmly believed that one day he would be an organist.
               The sun shone in at the great rose window and colored bars of light fell across the vast building. The white statues stood motionless as if listening to the music.
               High overhead met the lofty arches, and in every direction his eye wandered far away into the dim aisles stretching arch beyond arch till lost to view.
               Not a word of the service, not a note from the organ was lost upon him. He studied the elaborate fugue sung by the choir, and in an atmosphere of the best, most elevated and scientific music in the world, he was lifted above earthly things, and the spirit of the masters—old Handel, whose grave was near, Haydn, and the rest—came to him. Unwittingly he learned their art by merely hearing it.
               Just as the skillful English choir-master places in the choir the little boys who are afterward to sing in it, and bids them merely sit and listen, so our Jane had in far away America, bade this young student wait and listen, and he was doing so.
               At last the service was over. The people rose to go. Among them stood the young lady who had sat next to him. As she rose she dropped her glove. He saw it, and picked it up. She took it and said simply:
               "Thank you."
               What! what familiar voice was that? The veiled face was turned towards him for a moment. With her ungloved hand she drew her veil one side. It was Fanny Dean!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               The janitor's wife thought young Mr. Grinnel a long time in getting up that morning. Eight, nine, and ten struck, and still he did not ring for his breakfast. At half past ten she went up in the elevator and knocked at his door. There was no reply. She opened the door and looked in. The bed was untouched; she entered the room and looked about and found him in a feverish sleep in the chair.
               She spoke to him and he awoke with a start, and then helplessly slid out of the chair to the floor.
               For weeks he lay ill with a fever. At last, he was convalescent, and in midwinter was able to go out. When he was restored to health the Janitor put in his hand a letter post-marked six weeks before.
               It was simply a notice from Mr. Kingsford forbidding him to have any communication with his daughter. He crushed the letter in his hand and went out into the city a broken down man. He called at the church where he played. They had engaged a new organist. He made the round of his pupils. With the exception of two, all had left him. They could not afford to lose the time and had gone elsewhere. For the next few days he went about collecting his bills. Once he had to pass the Kingsford house. He look up at the windows, but the curtains were drawn and beyond a servant washing the windows there was not a soul to be seen.
               He passed on, and just as he was crossing the street, he saw a carriage pass rapidly, and in it sat Jane in apparent good health except that she was very pale. She did not see him, and he went on muttering thanks to Heaven that she still lived. He paid every bill and then sat down in his room penniless, with his business prostrated, and Jane gone forever.
               It was growing dark and he lighted a lamp mechanically and sat down to read.
               A knock at the door. Merely the boy with a roll of music paper. He opened it. There was a short phrase of music written upon it, then a blank space, and another scrap of music. Nothing more. No date, no words,—nothing but notes.
               What could it mean! His name was upon the back. Beyond this there was not the slightest means of knowing who sent it, nor where it came from.
               "Who brought it, boy?"
               "Dunno sir, it was left here for you ter day."
               "All right, thank you."
               "Yes'r."
               The young man rose, opened the piano and played both phrases. They seemed familiar and yet what could they mean? The last phrase was from the Elijah. It was set to the words:—
               
                  "Be not afraid, thy Help is near."
               
               He repeated this over several times, but could see no particular meaning to it. The first phrase was not so familiar. He hummed it over several times and suddenly it came to him.
               
                  "Come into the garden, Maud."
               
               A hot flush mounted into his face. It was a letter from Jane! He felt sure of it. Oh yes! he would come to-morrow. In his joy and thankfulness he waived the paper over his head.
               "Ah! what is that?"
               He grasped the sheet of paper tightly between his hands, and held it before the light.
               The water marks spelled out the words 
                     "Kingsford's Mills."
                  
               
               "What a bright girl. Oh! that to-morrow were here. And so good and brave. Yes indeed, 'Be not afraid thy help is near.' 'God's help is ever near.'"
               The next day came at last. It was cloudy and cold, and the ground was covered with snow. About eleven o'clock he started out and soon reached the great Park opposite the Kingsford mansion. He took the path leading directly towards the house. He walked very slowly, and observed the house carefully. Presently to his great joy the door opened and Jane came out dressed in a walking suit. She paused on the last step and looked carelessly around on the snow covered Park and up and down the street.
               She seemed undecided what to do. Livingston walked very slowly, and tried to appear indifferent. Jane turned to the right, walked to the corner of the street, and then turned to the right again, as if she intended going into the business part of the city.
               He understood, and turned short off to the right, went around the little pond and was soon in a secluded path winding through some leafless shrubbery. In a moment or two he saw her coming towards him. She smiled and held out both hands. He opened his arms and she ran into them, fell upon his neck and kissed him. For an instant they were thus clasped, and then she freed herself.
               "Oh, my love, my love," he cried, "you have come back again!"
               "I was never gone. I have been sick. Did you get my note in music?"
               "Yes, and I too have been ill."
               "Now, Livy we must not stay here. Let us walk out over the bridge. We shall not meet any one who knows us there, and I have much to say to you."
               They left the park in silence and were soon walking along the lonely bridge that led over the salt marshes, behind the town.
               First they told each other all that had happened since they were parted. Then Jane in her usual impetuous way said:—
               
               "Now, listen to me. You need not say a word till I have finished, and then I shall expect you to say yes."
               "In the first place it must be plain, that, while, my father continues to hold the view he does we cannot be married."
               "Jane."
               "My dear boy, will you be quiet? I say we cannot be married because my father will not consent. Now I have this plan. You may not like it, but it is sensible, and my wish. You are a musician."
               "Alas! yes, only I can tell you I am not ashamed of it."
               "Nor am I, however, it is a bar to our happiness, and I want you to give it all up, and go into trade."
               "Jane, this is too unreasonable. You are as bad as your father. What objection can there be to my teaching music for a living and being a musician?"
               "Because, my love, you have not genius, you are merely a talented man—nothing more."
               "Jane!
               "Livingston, I am speaking the most sober truth. I never was more in earnest in my life. I see no other way for us both. You need not give up your love of music, nor shall I. Don't you see that it stops our way, and so long as you are what you are we cannot be any thing to each other. Give it up for my sake. With your education you can quickly make your way anywhere. Go into business. Were my parents dead, or even reasonable in this matter I would marry you tomorrow, and you could be what you pleased. My love hear me. It is hard, very hard, and a bitter thing for me a woman to say. I had rather you could have seen this yourself, and have voluntarily acted upon it As you could not, knowing all the circumstances, I have taken it upon myself to tell you. Can you not go out West—to Chicago, or elsewhere and engage in trade, or find a position of some kind?"
               "Oh my love," she cried, "bear me for my love's sake. I am indeed sorry these things are so. Let us bear the crosses God has laid upon us. Let us not separate because of pride. Our two crosses united are easier borne than either alone—say you will accede to my wish and make me happy."
               For a few moments there was a pause.
               They both stood looking at the cakes of ice floating and grinding under the bridge, and the dreary snow covered hills, the hopeless sky, and at the sombre mass of the city.
               Then he said slowly:—
               "So it has come to this, music or money. Which shall—"
               "No, no, that is not it. It is music on one side and love and some other business on the other. Money indeed, but with love, and the music not lost, but safely neglected—turned from a profession to an amusement. Which shall it be, love or teaching do-re-me to young pinafores?"
               The young man looked down on the animated face beside him. It was indeed fair and winsome.
               
               He hesitated no longer, but gave his promise to do what she said. And then and there on the lonely winter bridge they parted. She returned home, and he after lingering a few moments followed her into the city.
               Forty-eight hours afterwards he had sold his piano, and other effects and was on his way to the Great West in search of a fortune.
               It may occur to the reader that is a very prosy matter for two young lovers. Not a doubt of it; but most of life is written in prose and has to be treated as such.
               The days of the forlorn maidens in dragon-guarded castles, rescued by valiant knights have gone by, if they ever existed. It often happens in real life, that women do more for men than men do for women; because it is their honorable nature, so to do. It but serves to show how women do often lay the foundations of good manners in life and society.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               In a moment he forgot everything about him. The mighty organ pealed through the Abbey, and he heard it not. The crowd pressed forward to the transept and turned in a stream toward the great west portal. He heeded them not, saw nothing, heard nothing save the friend at his side.
               The meeting was a surprise to both. They nearly lost their respective tongues. Of course she recovered first, and had the wit to lead him quickly as possible, out of the dim old Westminster. She could not talk there and she had a world of things to say. They came out into the broad Sanctuary and at once began to talk as fast as possible. Some of the natives standing about stared at them as only the English can stare, and then turned away saying:
               "Aw! Americans; Americans are queer."
               Little did they care. They turned to the right and went towards Westminster Palace unheeding everything save each other. The meeting of American friends in Europe is a sensation unknown to untravelled natives. It is certainly peculiarly happy and unlike the meeting of any other people in the world. They have such a real live sense of the worth and dignity of their own country and nation that they meet, as it were, under auspicious circumstances. Each feels sure the other is proud of the title of American citizen, and they greet each other in a safe and familiar way, the English think peculiar, if not improper. Bless you! When the English meet they are under the restraint of class, and always fear making the awful blunder of speaking to some one to whom they have not been introduced. A party of English who are not acquainted, and who are thrown together in a foreign land make a picture both sad and funny.
               Who's the Duke and who's the butcher? They cannot speak to each other, and until the titles are properly announced they are in a position as ridiculous as it is unhappy.
               Meanwhile our talkative young couple had reached Parliament street and had both explained why and how they came to London.
               "Stop," said Fanny as they entered Parliament street, "I live in Albert street, Regent's Park. We can take a Tottingham Court Road bus, but as we want to talk let us go round through Kensington, by the underground."
               The young man thought of his poverty. Could he afford to pay the fares? It would cost a shilling and more in a first-class carriage. Then he remembered his gold sovereign and resolved to be rashly extravagant. Hie would keep her society at any cost.
               "It is my treat," said she gaily. "Come, Westminster station is just round the corner."
               "No," said he, "I cannot consent to that. You must let me pay the fares."
               "Nonsense! Why will you drag in your ridiculous American ideas. Nobody does so here. Why should the gentlemen always stand the whole expenses? I shall, at least, pay my half so you need not say another word."
               "I don't think it is very chivalrous."
               "Nonsense! my boy! every lady, not married, pays her own car fare while touring abroad. It is the fashion among all Americans in Europe, and of course we are only tourists. We are both going back to dear old America some day."
               Almost before he knew it, she had led him through the crowd, and down the cellar-like staircase leading to the station of the Metropolitan Railroad. She bought two tickets in spite of him, and they entered the stations with its two black caverns at each end, its glass roof, and windowless wall, and cool atmosphere. They waited on the platform a few moments, a bell rang, the red lights over the tunnels changed to green, and with a rush and a roar a train slid into the station. Fanny caught an empty second-class compartment and they got in. The guard slammed the door, blew his whistle and they flew into the dark. The gas-light overhead shed a soft light over them and they found they were quite alone.
               The moment they sat down Frank said, "Why do you ride second-class?"
               "Because I cannot afford any other."
               He seemed much surprised, and then and there she told him as they were speeding through the tunnel, that her father had died and left her nearly penniless, and that now she was studying music alone in London that she might use it as a means of support.
               They stopped at many stations, and people got in and out, but they heeded them not. Finally, she said they had reached her station, and they left the cars, went up the stairs, passed the guard, and came out on Euston road, a part of the city he had never seen. She led the way into Marylebone road, entered Park 
                     Cresent
                     Crescent
                   and Place and soon they were sauntering under the trees in Regent's Park.
               He, too, told his story, omitting nothing, and before they knew it they had crossed the park and were near the Zoological Gardens.
               Fanny listened with the greatest interest, and as she led him off to the right and out the Gloucester Gate, she said:
               "I think the tool incident very peculiar. You may be sure the old fellow has some plan about you. I should be very careful how far he went with it. He will steal some march on you yet."
               Frank as we have seen had very little business capacity, and the advice of his sage little companion struck him quite forcibly.
               He made no reply to it, and in a few moments they had crossed the canal and were in Albert street. Fanny stopped before a house numbered 34, and extending her hand said pleasantly:
               "This is my home. Don't you think it a pleasant street, that is, for London? That window where the flowers are is my room. I like the English way of decorating the houses with flowers. You must call and see me. Come to tea. I live quite alone. I have no house, but my room is my castle, and I can invite you to it. Come next Saturday at six; it is my only evening at leisure."
               He shook her hand gratefully and went away happier than he had been for weeks. This simple hearted girl friend had inspired him with new life and courage and he for once forgot his poverty.
               He went back to Regent's Park, and taking out his crushed lunch, ate it, with a thankful and contented heart.
               Suddenly he remembered something; Fanny had paid his fare—only sixpence, to be sure, and he had failed to pay her, he must not forget it on Saturday.
               The next day he returned to the shop. Batkins the carver had returned also, and the young man was bid go back to his position as general helper. Not a word about the new tools. Just as he was going home, his employer whispered to him to return to the shop at ten in the evening.
               He came and under the cover of the darkness, forged with the old man's help, several more tools. At midnight the tools were taken away and he was dismissed. For three nights this was repeated. The young man said nothing, awaiting developements. On Thursday morning a place was made for him at the carver's bench, and he found the new tools ready for him. Unthinking of danger he went to work with them before all the men.
               At first they seemed to pay little heed to him. At noon there was a good deal of quiet talking among the men, but he thought nothing of it. During the afternoon the men came one after another and looked earnestly at him and his work. He was certainly doing well, turning out fairer work, and in less time than they could.
               Could he have seen the black looks about him, he would not have been so cheerful. He could now earn better wages, and the anticipation of escaping from his rough surroundings into the more refined atmosphere of Fanny Dean's society made him glad. He whistled over his work and was even merry.
               He had better have been silent. When it grew dark, scowls and clenched fists greeted him on every side, and he knew it not. He lingered after the rest, and at last went carelessly into St. Martin's Lane. As he walked happily along, a brick fell from the roof of a house and struck the sidewalk just in front of him. He heard a window sash fall, but thinking only of his fortunate escape from the falling brick, he did not in any way connect the two.
               He went to bed that night and had strange dreams. He thought the house on fire, and that some huge monster was pursuing-him. In the morning he was feverish and excited though he know not why.
               When he reached the shop he found he had arrived before the rest. On the bench among his tools lay a piece of board. He turned it over and found some words and a rude drawing in chalk upon it.
               "Us dun't want to hurt ye but ye must quit that or—" Under these misspelled words was a drawing of a man hanging on a gallows. The body was labelled "The d——d American."
               Every particle of color left his face, and his hand shook. He turned the board over and a great terror came into his heart. What did it mean? Why was he threatened? What had he done? He would take it to his employer. No! he would not be so weak. He would destroy the thing and attend to his work. He tried to be brave; but secretly was not. Few men can stand an unknown danger. During the day nothing unusual happened. He went on with his work and was outwardly serene.
               He was the last to leave the shop and as he stumbled along through the dark archway, he suddenly felt a hand put on his shoulder. He started in alarm, and would have cried out but a friendly voice said:
               
               "Be quiet, for God's sake!"
               "Who are you, and what do you want?"
               "It is no matter who I am. I'm yer friend. I don't want to see a fine lad like ye spoilt and I mean to save ye! Look a here, ye are using some new tools."
               "Yes, they belong to the master."
               "Ah! its the master? Weel that's neither here nor there. Ye made em, and the Trades Union had a meeting last night, and decided to kill ye unless ye lef Lunnon and destroyed the tools."
               "The Trades Union! what harm have I done them?"
               "Never ye mind that. They have decided to drive ye off. Did'nt ye heed the warning they gave ye?"
               Suddenly the rude drawing had a new meaning to him.
               "Noo do as I tell ye and go. They wu'd kill me too if I told ye this. Go before they kill ye."
               He grasped the hand and shook it warmly. It was the hand of a woman.
               He ran out into the gas-lighted street, with his teeth chattering, and seeing a policeman, was on the point of going to him for protection, but he checked himself. What could he say? Whom accuse, and how could he prove anything.
               He turned away just in time to see the officer arrest a small girl for stealing a cabbage from a green-grocer's window. He crossed the street and went along on the other side. The wind was high and the night stormy. Suddenly crash and a broken earthen tile from some roof, fell in fragments close behind him. In terror he ran on towards his own dismal street, climbed the dark stairs and locked himself in. Here at least he was safe. He ate some crackers he had in his pocket, and lay down on the bed.
               Of course he could not sleep. The great clock in Westminster Palace boomed again and again, and it was midnight. Unconsciously he fell into a doze only to start from it in a cold sweat. He opened his eyes and saw a bright gleam under his door. He coughed. The room was full of smoke. He grasped the water jug, unlocked the door and was on the point of crying fire, but paused. He opened the door and found a peck of shavings piled against it, in a light blaze. They fell into the room and rolled over the floor. With the water he extinguished the flames, and locking the door opened the window and sat down.
               "And this was England, England the just, the brave, and the well-governed. Better fly to the wilds of 
                     Arizonia
                     Arizona
                  , and Utah than linger here to be murdered in the middle of London, the civilized, the rich and the powerful!" At last the morning came and like a hunted beast he crept out to find something to eat. He bought a loaf and swallowed a mug of beer. It was now Saturday. He would go back to the shop, and work one more day, and take his wages. Then he would go away—where, he neither knew nor cared.
               He went to the shop and to his great surprise he found all his new tools gone. Without a word he took up his former employment and went on as if nothing had happened. The men seemed greatly pleased, and spoke to him in a friendly way. After his noon rest he resumed his work. Towards dark he had occasion to bore a number of peculiar holes in some wood work. The tools he had were not adequate, and without a thought of his danger, he went to the forge, begged a piece of steel from the blacksmith and soon had it forged into a new tool the like of which the men had never seen. He stuck a cork on it for a handle and went to work again. In a moment the storm burst. A metal organ pipe about sixteen feet long stood leaning against the wall behind him. It slipped and fell with a dusty crash upon the floor.
               He stood up with his back against the wall and saw the ten men in the shop, armed with sticks, tools, and what not gathered in a threatening ring around him. He pulled a pipe out of the organ near by and prepared to defend himself.
               Hearing the noise the master came in looking wild and haggard.
               "Stop men! don't ye hurt the lad."
               "Not a bit," cried a burly fellow, "Us 'll not urt im only he must quit year."
               "You need not fear," said the young man, "I will go now." He laid down the pipe, boldly advanced among them and said:
               "Give me my wages, and I am off."
               The old fellow fumbled in his pockets. Then he turned back his coat and searched in his vest. Suddenly he wrapped his coat round him in a little fright. The young man watched him keenly and thought he saw the handle of one of the missing tools sticking out of the inside pocket of the coat. The old man dragged forth some silver and slowly counted it into his hand. The workman took it and opened the door as if to go. As he did so a heavy stick of timber fell from an upper window into the yard, a second earlier and it would have struck him. Without waiting for his hat, he rushed into the gas-lighted street, and dodging behind the omnibuses he made for his lodging house at headlong speed. As he entered Long Acre he encountered a dense crowd of people. He struggled through the throng, and soon came to a steam fire engine at work in the street. He pressed on and came to his lodging-house. It was on fire. The window in his room was empty and a cloud of steam was floating out of it. Stunned and crushed by his accumulated trouble he turned back and went he knew not where. After escaping from the crowd he wandered aimlessly on up the noisy, dirty, dismal street. Soon he found himself in Leicester Square. The place was dark, noisome, and crowded with people. The dregs of the city floated about him. Hell seemed to have vomited in the street. Alhambra Palace was brilliantly lighted. The doors stood invitingly open.
               Ah! here for a while he could find light, warmth, company and safety. He would take a drink of something fiery, and then go in and drown his sorrow in the delights of the grand ballet, and go to the bad generally. There was nothing else to do.
               He looked into a pawn broker's window and saw a clock with the hand pointing to half-past five. In half an hour Fanny Dean would be expecting him. He would go to her and tell her all. He turned back towards St. Martin's Lane, bought a new cap, found a Tottingham Court Road omnibus and was safe.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               A front room in the third story of an ordinary London house. There are two windows facing the street. A bed, piano, table, chairs, etc. White muslin curtains, window plants and the usual English fire-place. An English fire-place is liberal enough; but the mean little grate built in with ugly brick and warranted to smoke and aggravate the cold room, instead of warming it, is an object of universal American pity and disgust. A fire in it looks as if frightened out of its little senses, and ready to expire from sheer feebleness, at any moment. From a sad experience with such we are ready to think the whole thing a weak English invention designed to harass foolish Americans. It costs sixpence a blaze, and by strict attention it can be urged to toast a slice of bread, or warm one foot at a time.
               So the young woman thought who sat before it sighing for the glories of a Massachusetts back-log, forestick and roaring hickory. A tea pot stood on the hearth. The table was set with two plates, a loaf of bread, pat of butter and an open box of sardines, and with napkins, etc., to match. On a toasting fork she held a slice of bread. She pulled back her skirt from the blaze, rested one elbow on her knee, and her chin on her hand. She watched the toast and wondered why he did not come.
               The candle on the mantel, another English absurdity, lighted the little clock with its hands pointing to ten minutes past six. He was late certainly.
               Presently the bell rang down stairs. There were voices and footsteps in the entry. A timid knock at the door.
               "Come in, please."
               He came in with his hair disordered and a bran new cap in his hand. She thought he looked excited and frightened. He thought he had arrived in heaven. What a pretty picture! The fresh girlish face, the charming cosey room, the flowers, fire and comfortable furniture.
               She greeted him pleasantly, and scolded him delightfully for being late. He enjoyed it greatly and wished she might keep on. She wanted to ask him what was the matter, but wisely decided to appear to notice nothing till they had indulged in tea, toast, and sardines. They sat down to the little spread, and Fanny talked merrily about her one-room-housekeeping, and told him about her studies and how she lived all alone in great, busy London, and worked with all her might at her art. It was lonely at times; but she had splendid letters from home, and she was improving rapidly, and was looking forward to her return home in about a year; and so on, and so on. Girls can talk when they choose, and just now this one was determined to cheer up her forlorn countryman and friend. She did it effectually. When the little tea was over she rolled up her sleeves and washed up the dishes while he sat by the fire, and listened to the stream of rippling, merry talk. He forgot his troubles and really began to grow brave and cheerful. Things might not be so bad after all. He could perhaps scrape enough money together to buy a steerage passage home, and he would return to his father and the old farm.
               Presently she finished, and sitting down by the fire they had "four feet on the fender." "Four feet on the fender," is proverbially a dangerous state of affairs. However, nothing came of it this time. They talked over old times at Rockford, and about the wedding in the church, and then she asked him how it happened he came to England to study music.
               "Because Miss Kingsford told me to go. Don't you remember what she said in church that day?"
               "To be sure, and it was by Jane's advice that I came too."
               "She is a splendid girl," said he enthusiastically. "A noble woman."
               "All of that, Frank. And to think we should meet in the Abbey, and both be in London studying music!"
               "Yes, it is strange,—only I am not studying music. My mission to this country has been an entire failure. Everything goes wrong, and I mean to go home as soon as I can."
               "What! and give up music?"
               "Yes," he replied bitterly. "It takes so much money to get a taste of art, I begin to think music is only meant for the rich. It is certainly not meant for me."
               "Yes, it is. It will come to you in God's good time. You must 'Learn to labor and to wait.'"
               "Yes, labor. I have labored, and the end of it is poverty and danger. I have waited and in vain."
               "Everything comes to the man who can wait," said she cheerfully.
               "I doubt it. I have waited these months, and music seems farther from me than ever."
               "Months! I have waited and worked alone in London a whole year, and I expect to wait another year; and even then life is all before me. I must return to America and try my fortune. I may succeed and win money and friends, and I may fail utterly. Why should you complain if you do not get on as fast as you wish? Fight it out! Don't give up the ship, my boy; you will be a great organist yet."
               He looked up in astonishment. Where did the girl win such sturdy courage. But, then she had money to pay for her education, and had a comfortable home.
               "Money! yes, it is well for me to talk about money. Am I not living on my capital, sinking everything in my one venture? If I fail I shall be without a cent. It is a hard fight all alone in a strange land, and the long lessons, and weary practice. It has no end, and at times I—"
               Her eyes began to sparkle with tears. "I feel so sad and home is so far away, and I sometimes wish I were a boy. There!" she cried breaking into a laugh, "I don't believe your case is half so sad."
               The young man looked earnestly at the cheap little fire for a while, and then said slowly,—
               "Fanny, your trials have made a woman of you."
               "Have they?"
               "Yes, and if mine do only half as much for me, I shall be something tremendous."
               "You don't say. May I be there to see? Now, soberly, tell me just what has happened. Tell me all about it."
               Then he related all that had occurred, omitting nothing. He told how when he came to himself in Leicester Square he had bought a new cap, and there he was with thirty shillings in his pocket, and without a home or employment, and perhaps in danger of his life.
               "Now," said he in conclusion, "I think I shall give it all up and go home."
               "I should do nothing of the kind. Never give up. Stay in Europe till you get your education, if it takes years. I would not go back for any consideration. Europe is not a bad place to live in."
               
               "But I can't earn anything here. Besides, I can find just as good teachers there, as here."
               "I know that, but here music is cheap, and you can hear a great deal more than at home. Hearing good music is as important as lessons. I'll tell you what I should do. Go to the American Consul and tell him the whole story, perhaps be could—" Just then came an ominous rattle 
                     as
                     at
                   the door handle. Fanny rose hastily, and went to the door. Before she could cross the room the door was pushed open, and a fat woman in a checked apron, and a severe aspect, marched heavily into the room. She glanced around and seeing the young man, she lifted her eyebrows and said:—
               "A man in the 'ouse!"
               "Well," said Fanny, "What can I do for you Mrs. Stifflebury, do you wish anything?" "Yes, Miss, I want to know 'ow long this ere thing is going hon?"
               "What thing? I don't understand?"
               "No more do I, I do n't hunderstand it myself. 'Ow a perty young thing, can do such things is wot I do n't hunderstand."
               "Really, Mrs. Stifflebury, you must explain. Do you wish more rent, or what is it?"
               "I wants the disgrace took hoff the 'ouse."
               "Disgrace!"
               "Yes, Miss, there's the disgrace,—'im."
               She pointed to Frank, and he comprehending the situation, said:
               "Madam, you are entirely mistaken. You have no right to use such language to Miss Dean."
               "It's my own 'ouse, and I say I won't 'ave it, you're the second man she's had in her room within the year."
               Fanny blushed to the roots of her hair; and said without a quiver in her voice:—
               "What you say Mrs. Stifflebury is cruel, unjust, and untrue. My room is my castle, and I shall ask whom I please into it. The other gentleman you saw here was my music teacher. This is an old friend from America."
               "I don't care, I tell you, it's a dreadful disgrace, I don't see 'ow you can have the face to speak, you hussy."
               "Now Madam," said the young man stepping forward and taking Fanny's hand, "We must ask you to leave the room. I admit such American freedom may seem uncommon to you."
               "Yes it's that. It's very uncommon, and so it's very wrong. Folks in England never do uncommon things. It's not right. Miss Dean should have a Chaperon, or some holder person with 'er It's very uncommon doings, hindeed it is!"
               "But, Madam, while she hires the room it is her castle, and she may have whom she pleases in it. It is a bit of American territory, and American manners and customs are allowable in it. You, yourself, came in without knocking, which was a terrible breach of English manners."
               "I say the 'ouse will never get over the disgrace."
               "Oh, I dare say it will! What in an English girl, according to your, I must say, rather absurd view of things, would be a serious breach of propriety, is perfectly proper in an American. We happily can, and do trust our young women, and did Miss Dean live alone in her own house at home, her invitation to an old friend to take tea with her would not be looked upon with disapproval."
               "I do n't care, it's very uncommon doings and so it can't be right. Americans are very queer. Very queer."
               With this profound remark, she beat a hasty retreat, and slammed the door behind her with a vixenish bang.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               As we have before remarked life is measured by events. Events do not always tread each other's heels. Long spaces, are apt to come between the points in our lives, that really deserve notice. These spaces have to be lived through, but need not be recorded.
               One of these dry and uninteresting places in Jane's life followed the departure of her lover. She shut up her sorrow in her heart, and tried to be as cheerful as she could. Not a word passed between them, and they seemed dead to each other. The months crept past in a dreary round. She took up the duties that lay nearest her; and was outwardly happy. Other suitors came before her, but she did not smile upon them. She would never marry, people said. Her father offered to send her abroad again; but she refused. She would remain at home, and wait and watch. He might return at any time. That he would return, and successful at that, she had not a doubt. She would wait for him, were it for years.
               
               There is nothing so successful as success. Mr. Kingsford believed in success. Some people said it was the only thing he did believe in. We will not discuss this matter, as he is not as person who has any particular interest for us. We will relate two little incidents that happened to him, and we can then afford to drop him out of sight.
               One day as he sat in his stately office, grim with the solemn cares of making money, a young man was ushered in who introduced himself as Mr. Frank L. Grinnell, Eastern agent, and prospective partner of the great Chicago house of Huxley, Stone, Bower and Smith, grain dealers. He brought the proper letters, and the two were soon in close conversation, concerning a certain good thing in shorts and oats. The young man showed such a wide-awake spirit, such profound knowledge of his business, that the senior took him at once to his commercial bosom.
               Somehow he seemed to remember the face, but did not recall the dismissed music teacher. That the two were identical never entered his head. He was so much pleased with the young Westerner that after business hours he invited him to dine with him at his residence.
               The young man accepted with becoming gratitude, and showed his great pleasure at the distinguished honor conferred upon him.
               Jane, was that day, sitting at the window, just before the dinner hour. Somehow her thoughts ran on her absent lover. Would he ever return? Oh! that he were here. She had a sudden impulse to stand up, and look out of the bay window. There on the steps stood her lover pleasantly talking with her father. How much he had changed! Much stouter, more color in his face, and well and becomingly dressed. Oh! if he could only come in. But, no, he would pass on and she would lose— Why, he was coming in!
               She ran to the door, heard his voice in the entry, and his step on the marble floor. She did not faint away; she did not even fall on her knees and pray after the manner of some heroines; but she put her hair back, behind her ears, with both her hands in an absent-minded way. A flush colored her cheeks. Her eyes glistened, and she stepped back and stood motionless in the middle of the floor, silent, and with a great peace and joy in her heart.
               During her weary waiting for him, she had amused herself by having built a beautiful pipe organ. It stood at one side of the room, not far from the window. She looked at the silvered pipes, and then with slow steps she went to the instrument and sat down. She turned on the water and the bellows filled. Waiting till the "wind guide" had moved to the highest point, she drew every stop. It was a real organ, and though very small, as befitted the place, it gave the true tone, nought but a pipe can give.
               Then she played with full harmony a snatch from the great rain chorus:—"Thanks be to God who laveth the thirsty land." The tears fell like rain on her hands and she stopped abruptly. The music pealed through the house for a moment and then all was silent. Her father heard it, and was provoked that she should interrupt his conversation. Her mother heard it and said pettishly, to the maid who was combing her hair:
               "What new nonsense is Jane up to now?"
               "I don't know mum; but I should think she was kinder glad o' something."
               The young man heard it, and said to himself:—"Yea, thanks be to God who has laved our thirsty hearts."
               At dinner time Jane appeared very pale and perfectly self-possessed. They were formally introduced. They exchanged one flash of a glance and understood each other. The dinner was very formal, very long, and to the young folks very dreadful. At last it was over, and the family adjourned to the parlor. Now the trial was to come. There were no longer table duties to take up the attention, nor were there any obsequious servants to exercise a salutary restraint. Mrs. Kingsford was charmed with the young man, and was for engaging his whole attention. Jane submitted, knowing it was the safest thing to do. Mr. Kingsford was a slave to his evening paper, and begging to be excused he sank behind it in a big chair, and was lost to view. Presently Mrs. Kingsford excused herself for a moment while she gave some household orders. The young people were somehow seated dangerously near each other on the sofa.
               From behind the newspaper came an unmistakable snore. This was the spark that fired the mine, and in an instant Jane's black hair was somehow mingled with Livingston's whiskers. The paper fell down; but the sleeper slept sweetly on.
               The lovers were happy.
               Suddenly without the slightest warning, the sleeper opened his eyes. He saw something, and the truth was made known to him. He understood it all now. He rose and stood before the self-absorbed pair. They looked up, and started apart in a little fright. At this moment it would have been the proper thing for Mr. Kingsford to have spread out his hands and said:—"Bless you my children."
               He did nothing of the kind; he merely took out his handkerchief and blew his nose in a violent and sonorous manner, till the room resounded, and then said with a very red face:—
               "Jane, I have taken stock in that young man. You have my consent; when the proper time comes I will endorse you and the papers at the same time."
               Thereupon they rose as one man and fell upon his neck and kissed him multitudinously. He shook them off, ran out of the room and was no more seen.
               In a moment Jane's mother came into the room, and seeing the affianced couple on the sofa, she did lay her hands on their heads, and did say, while the tears ran down her face and fell gracefully off the end of her nose:—"Bless you my children!"
               So the proper thing was done after all.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               Deacon Silas Lovewell Brown, sat in his arm chair by the kitchen door, considering a grave matter. This time it was not his son, but himself. His years were telling upon him, and he could no longer carry on the old farm. His children, tired of the monotonous round of life at home, had all gone. One after another they had followed their elder brother, and sought their fortunes in the world. Of his eldest born he could not think in peace. Not a word had he received from him for months. He had run away to sea. One letter had reached them from England, saying that he was well, and beyond that there was nothing.
               The gate creaked, and looking up the boy stood before him, He did not know his son, and said:
               "Well, stranger!"
               "Father!"
               The old man stood up and received him after the manner of the prodigal returned. But the young man refused to be considered a prodigal and the meeting was not cordial. The mother came, and the young man fell upon her neck and kissed her. The Deacon always considered women weaker vessels and cut short the greeting with:—
               "I hope you have come to stay. The corn is up, and it needs weeding bad. Can't you lend me a hand after dinner?"
               "No father, I cannot. I have only returned for a day, and I must go back to my studies at once."
               The old man groaned inwardly.
               "Studies! Have you not got that folly out of you yet?"
               "Folly, father! is it folly to follow the instincts God has planted in us?"
               "And you would desert your poor old father and mother again, would you?"
               "No, father, yet I cannot stay at home. I see one thing clearly. Music is my life work and I will follow it as long as I live. I will help you as far as I am able, and you must ask no more."
               "Then you must not look to me for support."
               "I have not asked it. I have a little money and my two hands."
               "Have you? How did you get it?"
               "Earned it. I made a little venture in tools in England; got them patented through the aid of the American minister, and sold the patent for one hundred pounds."
               "That is a great deal of money, is n't it.
               "No, it will last me only a little while, as I mean to spend it upon my education."
               The Deacon groaned heavily, and sat down; while the son went into the house with his mother.
               "So it is come to this, has it?" muttered the old man to himself. "The place must go, and the sooner the better while this land fever is on. It will be a good bit I shall get for the farm, and—I'm sad to leave the old place and have a big mill in the medder; but then twenty thousand dollars is not so very bad—might have got more by waitin'. If it were not for the rheumatiz, and the new road through the pasture!"
               That evening the young man walked to the next village, where his aunt Sally Brown had drifted, as it were, into a corner, out of the sweep of life's current. The little ten foot cottage stood just beyond the village, and as the young man went through the quiet streets he thought of the days gone by. He passed the little store of Bangs & Tarbox, and was surprised to find the little hall where the Rockford Centre Orpheons had sung so famously, had given place to a brick block. Things had changed greatly, and he remembered with a smile, all that had occurred in the little place. He too had changed. He passed the Dean mansion, now turned into a hotel, and wondered how Fanny fared, and; what had become of that Jane, her friend. Should they ever meet again? Probably not; and he knocked at his aunt's door in a little fit of regretful sadness.
               In a moment all thoughts of the future were gone. Here was his duty; here his cross—let him take them up.
               The one friend he had above all others was sinking to the grave. She had taken to her bed, a feeble, worn out old woman. He went to her and sat by her bedside, holding her withered hand in his till long after midnight. He told her all since he ran away from her, not two years ago. She heard it all patiently, and with inexpressible sweetness forgave him and said she should now die happy. He must not leave her. She would not stay long, and she fell asleep as he sat by her side. How could he leave her? No, he must not think of music while she lived. He must stay and wait.
               And wait he did. He took up his abode with her, and assisted his father about the sale and the winding up of the old farm affairs. Nor, was this all. He applied for and obtained the position of organist in the village church, and practiced with might and main whenever an opportunity afforded.
               One other experience came to him. He fell in love; of this we cannot speak in detail as it has been recorded elsewhere.
               The author once published a book entitled "The Soprano," wherein was set forth the experience of Miss Julia Ward, Soprano singer, and intimate friend of Jane Kingsford. The two girls had lived near each other in Rockford during their school girl days. Julia Ward's father had lost his property, and she was obliged to look about for a means of support. She left her home and for some time Jane heard nothing from her. Now, it happened that before she left home she sang in the village choir, in Rockford, and while there, met our hero Frank Brown. That meeting was supposed to have taken place at about this point of his life. He fell deeply in love with her, and she returned it, and yet refused him, thinking that an engagement would stand in her light. She was ambitious, she meant to win fame and fortune in music, and she threw him aside and went her way.
               It is not important here to enlarge upon this affair, as it has been fully described in the other story,—the Soprano. It merely remains to be recorded that immediately after her refusal of him his aunt died, and he turned his back on Rockford, never to return.
               The sale of the old farm made his father comfortable, and his aunt left the young man a trifling legacy of a few hundred dollars.
               At last he was free. He was now twenty one years of age, and had the world all before him. Never for a moment had he given up the idea of becoming an organist, and after years of toil and waiting he felt ready to begin his studies, as it were, at the very foundation.
               Most young men would have considered that they knew enough already. Not so this young man. He knew enough to know that he knew nothing. He landed in New York, late one afternoon, with eight hundred dollars in his pocket, an extra suit of clothes in a bag, and without a friend, or letter of introduction or even a lodging-place in prospect. He left the cars and turned down town, wondering where he should go. He must avoid the great hotels, and save every cent of his precious money. These few hundreds represented all the world to him,—music, art, fame, and everything save love. That was not to be his, and he must find in art, the peace love could not give. That is, if he could.
               Most young men would have considered the whole venture foolish and visionary. The idea of entering New York with only a little knowledge of music, and less than a thousand dollars in money! It was preposterous! To ordinary minds, doubtless, but genius often ventures where prudence dares not enter. It was a foolish move, and one would have supposed his previous experience would have saved him. Not so. He knew of but one good thing in the world and that was music; and music he meant to have.
               Yes, he would have it that very night. He passed an open door where a placard announced a chamber concert by the 
                     Mendelsshon
                     Mendelssohn
                   Quintette Club. Just as Ole Bull when a young man sold his last shirt to buy a ticket to hear a certain famous player, so this boy broke into his little hoard to buy a ticket to this concert. Here was music. He could hear and learn, and without hesitation he paid a dollar and went in, carpet bag and all, and sat down in a corner.
               The hall was nearly full of people, and the concert was about ready to begin.
               Since that wonderful day in the tent at old Rockford, he had heard but little orchestral music. His bitter poverty had not allowed of hearing much music, and all of that had been of one kind—organ music. He ought now to hear a greater variety and it was a good idea to come to this concert. The performance began with an Andante and Scherzo from Beethoven. As he had not obtained a programme, he did not know what it was. He only knew what it said to him. Out of the cloudy maze of the slow movement, came what seemed to him a picture of his own life. Toil, disappointment, and perpetual longing for something higher and better than he had reached.
               The Scherzo was a breeze from a new heaven. Airs from undiscovered skies blew over his spirit. He straightened up and listened with all his might. An airy voice spoke to him bidding him come up higher. The world was fair and wide to the brave fighter, and there was a prize for the swift runner in the race.
               The music ceased and left him in a state of exaltation that seemed to make his prospect brilliant, and his path easy. He was sure to win in the end. His eyes sparkled and he smiled to himself. He must go. Not a moment must be lost. It was important to find lodgings, at once, and be ready to take an early start in the morning.
               Without waiting to hear more, he went out and found a cheap lodging-room and slept the sleep of the healthy and hopeful. Early the next morning he found a savings bank and put his money away in safety. Buying a newspaper in the street, he sat down on the steps of a church to read the advertisements of the music teachers. He had hardly opened the paper before two young men appeared, and desired him to move, that they might go into the church.
               He rose and stood one side while they unlocked the door of the building. They paused a moment and looked up and down the street and said something about "that boy." The young man guessed in a moment what was wanted, and touching his hat in the English style said:—
               "Did you want some one to blow the organ for you?"
               "Yes, we did," said the elder. "I have a music lesson to give, and our blower has not come."
               "I'll blow for you, sir."
               "How much do you want for it?" said the gentleman in surprise.
               "Whatever you pay for such work."
               "Have you ever touched an organ before?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "All right. Will give you half a dollar an hour. Come on."
               "Yes sir."
               Here was a chance to learn something. He could listen to the lesson, and pick up information while earning the price of two dinners.
               The three entered the church and clambered up into the organ loft. The young man without a word went behind the dusty old instrument, and took up his new work. He never said he could play, nor even asked to see the key-board. He took up the duty next to him and did his best.
               The pupil was not skillful, and the organ was an inferior one. The player made many mistakes, and the teacher corrected, and corrected patiently and persistently. It was not a lively performance, yet the blower did his best in silence.
               Organ blowing is an art by itself. This one knew the art, and at the end of the first half hour there was a little pause, and the teacher came to the back of the instrument and said:
               "You blow well."
               "Do I? I am glad you think so."
               The gentleman seemed puzzled, but said nothing. Presently the lesson was resumed. Suddenly a pipe in the organ began to sing of its own accord. The lesson was stopped, abruptly and the stops were changed to see if the annoying sound would cease. It would not, and with a few ill-natured words at the wretched old instrument the pupil said he could play no more.
               The master was disturbed at the unfortunate interruption and tried in vain to stop the troublesome note. It would not be stopped, but went booming away spitefully and noisily.
               The blower left his work and came to the desk and said:—
               
               "If you have a key to the case, perhaps we can stop the pipe. The trackers have caught somewhere."
               The master looked up surprised.
               "What do you know about it?"
               "I know enough to be able to fix it. Let me have the key, and we can repair damages quickly."
               The master was completely dumfounded. That a poorly dressed countryman should offer to repair the organ seemed preposterous, and he hardly knew what to do. Would not the stranger ruin everything in the attempt?
               "What do you know about organs?"
               "Not much, only, I worked in an organ factory once."
               "Ah! did you? Well, here is the key."
               The young man opened the side door and disappeared in the organ. The loose screw in the action was quickly tightened, and in a moment all was serene again.
               The lesson was finished and the three went down stairs to go out. At the outer door the master placed a dollar and a half in the young man's hand, said "thank you," and walked rapidly away. The pupil without a word turned and went in another direction. The young man absently counted the money and at once made up his mind as to his next step. He looked up and saw the music teacher walking rapidly away. He ran after him and touched his sleeve. The gentleman turned round and said:—
               "Well, sir, what can I do for you? Did I not pay you enough?"
               "Yes, it is not that. I merely wished to ask you a question."
               "All right. Say on."
               "Do you give lessons on the organ?"
               "Yes."
               "What are your terms?"
               "Seventy-five dollars a quarter."
               "I'll take one quarter. May I begin to-day?"
               The gentleman seemed greatly surprised and for a moment had nothing to say. He looked at the expectant pupil, studied the sidewalk, referred to a notebook, and then said:
               "Can you read?"
               "I should think so."
               "Music, I mean."
               "So do I. I can play somewhat by note. I mean to be an organist. I can pay you. I have eight hundred dollars in the Savings bank. See, here is my bank book. I can practice all day, and— I am very anxious to learn. I like your style of teaching, and can begin to-day."
               He had studied the lesson well and knew that the stranger, whose name even he did not know, was the man to teach him. In his anxiety not to lose him he pressed his case eagerly and talked in an excited, rapid manner that struck the master as something peculiar and original.
               
               He took out a card, and said briefly:—
               "Perhaps we can arrange it. Call at my room at six this evening. I am busy now. Good day."
               In a moment he was gone, lost in the crowd, and the young man stood alone on the walk, studying the card, 
                     "Wilson Dyer, Hotel Knickerbocker, Room 14."
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               The long day came to an end, and brushing up his clothes, as best he could, our hero, with clean hands and a hopeful spirit applied at Room 14, Hotel Knickerbocker. It was at the top of the house, and the maid that opened the door ushered him into a handsomely furnished parlor and bade him be seated.
               This was not like the home of the conventional music teacher. Was there not some mistake? Music must be a paying profession if its votaries could live in such style. In a moment the master entered in dressing gown and slippers. He was a young man with dark eyes, and partially bald-headed. His features were small, his hands muscular and shapely. He received his prospective pupil cordially, and offering him a cigar, took a seat beside him. The young man refused the cigar and the master smoked alone. Mutual introductions followed, and then out Frank briefly told of his hopes and plans, omitting nothing. Mr. Dyer was puzzled and somewhat disturbed. Was it not a strange venture to begin to study music with only eight hundred dollars?
               The anxious pupil did not know. He would like to try. Perhaps he could get a position as organist somewhere.
               "Or take a few pupils in time."
               "Yes, I might do that," replied young Brown, "when I know enough."
               Further conversation followed and then they went to the next room, where there was a pedal piano, and without further parley the first lesson began.
               From that evening our hero entered upon a new life. His real life he thought. Music now absorbed his every thought. There was a world of things to do, and he must work, and work hard. His first lesson showed that he had made two radical mistakes in his previous practice. These were a want of knowledge of the science of music, and an imperfect touch.
               The piano has one touch, the organ another. The piano is struck, and the organ first struck by a blow from the finger and the blow followed by a firm clinging pressure. The young man knew it, and yet he had gone wrong. He had studied the organ touch alone. He had taken no lessons on the piano, and his fingers had none of the pianist's elasticity and quickness of movement. Now, while it is rare to find a musician who can play piano and organ equally well, it is important the organist should in a measure combine the two styles.
               Our hero knew there were many good organists, but the great ones he knew were rare. Ordinary success would not satisfy him. He intended to become a great player, and no amount of labor was too much to reach the end. If he was obliged to become a pianist in order to be an organist he would do it.
               Great pianists he noticed were more common than great organists. This he could easily understand as the more simple instrument is more easily mastered. The varied tones of the organ, its power and weight, its resources and mechanical aids, perplex the mind and tax the brain more than the fingers. To handle the keys is but the first step. That accomplished, the student has but entered upon the field. Here, many pause bewildered, and never get any farther nor become anything more than mere ordinary players.
               Our hero in his love for the organ had totally neglected the piano. This was a mistake that it required months of practice to overcome.
               Undaunted he began at the very beginning to study his piano, practicing velocity exercises and the scales with all the meekness of a school girl, and with twice her ardor.
               Mr. Dyer's reason for this course was plain. Though he did not intend his pupil should become a great piano player, and though he meant him to retain his firm grasp and clinging organ touch, still he hoped to increase its flexibility and give speed to its pace. Herein he laid down a great principle of organ playing. First take the piano to obtain lightness and elasticity. Then take the organ to get the firmness, strength and comprehensive grasp required by the nobler instrument. The idea of studying one instrument alone is not the correct one, however much it may be practiced by some organists. The two should be united in part with careful discrimination, and keeping the final result in view. Too much of the one or the other would be equally bad. An organist who played in the pianoforte style, and a pianist touching the keys in the organ style would both err in judgment. How far the two styles may be combined is a matter of patient practice and careful study. Nor is this all. If every young pianist could imitate the true organist it would be greatly to his or her advantage. Practice on the organ would aid in obtaining grasp, vigorous precision, and give solidity to the tone.
               Our hero set about repairing the faults in his playing with a sturdy courage that seemed equal to anything. He took lessons twice a week, practiced on an old piano that he had hired, hour after hour, and gave his whole mind to the one great object of his life. He gave up reading the papers, rose early, and sat up late, worked hard, economized his time and money, and paid his way as he went.
               At the end of the first quarter he sat down to examine his progress, and consider his finances. His teacher had agreed to teach him for something less than the usual price in consideration of his poverty and eagerness to learn; but it did not help much. Live as cheaply as he could, and it was often too cheaply for health, he could not get on for less than five dollars a week, and with piano hire, lessons and incidental expenses he spent one hundred and fifty dollars the first quarter. At that rate, his money would not last him eighteen months.
               He had tried to get a position as organist in some church, but had only obtained a little place in Jersey City where there was no organ at all. For a hundred dollars a year he played a reed instrument, and waited and watched for something better.
               In spite of his ill-success in obtaining employment, and disregarding the dubious financial prospect, he entered upon his second quarter's instruction without hesitation. He was resolved to win all, if it cost everything. He wanted an education and he meant to have it. The more gloomy the prospect, the harder he worked. In addition to his musical studies, he began to brush up his common school education. He assailed the Cooper Institute for the best it could give him, and burned the midnight oil over history, literature, and general culture. He saw but one good thing to do with his money, and that was to pour it into his head, where he felt sure it was safe.
               The next quarter cleared him from a portion of the piano practice, and he took up the study of harmony, counterpoint, and composition. The principles of harmony he quickly mastered. In counterpoint he excelled, and in composition he made a discovery. Mr. Dyer noticed it first, but said nothing, desiring to hold his pupil in check a little longer. He began to notice that he had a most promising pupil—a gifted young man; but as yet undeveloped and immature.
               Not all of us mature together. Some men are boys till past thirty. Mentally our hero was a youth, though now of age. In maturing, young people often suddenly exhibit traits of character, and talents that no one suspects they have. So our hero in the study of counterpoint exhibited a fertility of imagination and a naturalness and grace of melody that was quite unexpected.
               Counterpoint, the art of writing music in parts, is to most people a dry matter. To him, when he had grasped its principles, it was only a pleasure. The inventive faculty that had taught the boy to make a toy steamboat, and the imagination that had led him to make the carver's tools in the English organ factory, here found their true field. They spontaneously and naturally blossomed out into melody. Composition was the natural expression of his mind.
               One day his master desired him to write a fugue on an original theme. He doubted if he could do it, but said he would try. At the next lesson, he timidly brought the sheets cleanly transcribed, and said it was the best he could do. If he could have set down the ideas in his mind he might have done better.
               Mr. Dyer took the sheets, and began to examine them carefully. As he read he smiled, and the pupil was greatly disturbed, thinking the master laughing at the mistakes, of which he knew there must be enough.
               "I dare say it is full of errors."
               "I do n't know. I have not looked. It is full of something else, however."
               "What is that?"
               "The most undoubted genius, young man. I congratulate you, you are—well," suddenly checking himself, "but never mind, let us look at the errors. There may be a few."
               It would not do to say too much. The music, though crude, showed traces of an original mind, and had all the marks of genius though obscured by want of training. Mr. Dyer judged it best to lead the pupil to an appreciation of his powers by slow degrees. It might spoil him with vanity. There was no danger. He had fought too severe a fight through life to be elated at the discovery of his own talent. Besides, he knew in his heart that he had talent. It was this that had kept him up and saved him from despair. He knew he should do something worthy of himself, and his art, in God's own time, and when full triumph came afterward, he was not upset with vanity nor dazzled with success.
               Naturally he was pleased that the fugue was satisfactory to his master, and with new courage, he went on with his studies with redoubled zeal.
               
               In all this time his master had wisely kept him at the piano. He saw this ardent and musical mind developing so late in life would be too much excited by the thrilling tones, and enticing resources of the organ; and he refused to let him touch any instrument, save the reed organ, and piano.
               Perhaps you wonder that this genius should have developed so late in life.
               Musical talent generally shows itself very early in life. So it would have done in this case had it not been nearly crushed out by untoward surroundings, and dwarfed into insignificance by starvation.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               The next important event in Jane Kingsford's life was the meeting between herself and Miss Julia Ward, as recorded in the first chapter of "The Soprano." From that time the young ladies saw each other often and their two lives went on in an uneventful and pleasant manner, till Fanny Dean returned from Europe.
               She had finished her studies and was now ready to try her fortune as a public singer. She arrived in New York and went at once to a hotel, and wrote to Jane Kingsford. Immediately a telegram was despatched asking her to make a little visit, at No. 5, 
                     Massanutter
                     Massanutten
                   Avenue, before beginning her musical career.
               She arrived, and the next day Jane sent for Julia Ward who happened to be in the city, and the three young women met at Jane's home. Jane, the rich and happy girl bubbling over with merriment and good nature; Julia the sedate, dignified, and successful public singer, the popular and sought after young lady, whose presence was considered a social honor; lastly, Fanny, now an English looking girl, stout, placid, hopeful, and with all the world before her.
               Jane had a little plan. She had a weakness for plans for other people's benefit. She with much talk and merry suggestions laid it before them. Fanny protested, and Julia approved. The result of the talk appeared in the daily prints in a few days, in the announcement of a concert under the auspices of Miss Julia Ward, on which occasion Miss Fanny Dean would make her first public appearance since her return from her studies in London.
               Nor was this all. Jane had a certain amount of influence in the city, just as any cultivated and prepossessing young lady can have, and she used it. The important day arrived. Upon this concert would hang Fanny's whole success. If she were well received, if she was equal to the occasion, if she could sing to the satisfaction of the critics, her time and her little store of money would be well invested, and her prospective fortune made. If she failed everything was lost, and she was without money or occupation.
               They all met in the Kingsford parlor the evening before. Jane, Livingston, Fanny and Julia Ward. As the time drew near, Fanny began to be nervous. They cheered her up and gave her every assurance of success. If she had exhibited the pluck, perseverance, and endurance to spend two long years in foreign city, she would succeed when it came to the test. They passed the evening pleasantly, and just as the party broke up, Livingston said:
               "Now if we only had poor John here our circle would be complete."
               A cold shiver passed through Fanny's frame. Then he was dead, she said to herself, and she leaned heavily against a chair for support. Somehow, she bade them all good night, and fled away to her room. She closed the door softly, lighted the gas with trembling hands, let her hair down mechanically and sank into a great arm chair, completely unstrung, and almost heartbroken.
               He had parted with her upon the pier two years ago with love in his eyes if not on his tongue. She knew it just as well, and it was this, that had sustained her through the long months in dreary London. She had worked and studied with a dim hope in her heart that she could come home talented and successful and perhaps worthy of him. And he was dead,—dead. Of what avail was her music to her now? Of what value was art, or anything, without love. And love was not to be hers. There was only music left, and toil and public life. She shrank from the prospect. Her sensitive, clinging nature turned for support to some one stronger than herself; and found only music. No one could now help her save God. She choked back the tears, and tried to be brave and strong in the Lord.
               
               The eventful night came. Julia Ward was calm, self-possessed and confident. The concert was nothing to her, and she devoted her whole attention to her companion.
               The orchestral introduction was over. Fanny sitting with her hand in Jane's in the waiting room heard the last chord with a start.
               Her hour had come. The conductor came into the room, and smiled pleasantly. The white gloves were drawn on, and the trio, conductor, Fanny, and Julia, went on the stage. They were to sing a duet, and there was a little buzz of expectation over the house as they came in. The orchestral introduction began and ended and the vocal part came.
               Of Miss Ward's singing we need got speak. Fanny's voice trembled, and she was evidently frightened. So many faces before her; such a sea of eyes, every one looking straight at her. It bewildered her. At last it was through and there was a liberal round of applause, as if to encourage the new singer.
               She came back to the ante-room looking pale and haggard. In her heart she knew she had failed. It was plain her education had been good, she had a sweet voice, and pleasing presence, yet she lacked courage. She was trembling and almost crying as June received her with open arms, and leading her to the sofa tried to comfort her. Julia was all sympathy, but could not understand it. Such shrinking and fear was something she had never felt, and could only comprehend in a vague way.
               The concert went on. Other performers sang or played, and then Fanny with trembling steps mounted the stage to sing a solo. She did better this time. The conductor smiled upon her, the men in the orchestra looked their sympathy, and she felt better. She really improved and attained to a measure of success in the first few bars. She even ventured to look out over the house during an interlude. Suddenly she saw a door open silently, and a man appeared in the hall. He seemed a foreigner, dark and with a heavy beard and—the conductor waved his hand before her as a command to sing.
               She tried to sing. Not a note came from her parched throat, and she saw by the book that the band had gone beyond the voice part. She had lost her place. Every spark of color left her face. She looked up to the conductor. He looked disconcerted and annoyed, yet he went on with the work. She would try again at the next place. It was a failure, and in an ominous silence the piece came to an end, and she was escorted off the stage.
               That night she sought her room the moment the carriage arrived, and threw herself on the bed in a flood of bitter tears. Jane presently came softly into the room and went to the bedside where the disappointed girl lay sobbing as if her heart would break. She quietly took off part of her clothing, and made her more comfortable. Then she sat down by the bedside in silence. Presently Fanny said in a choking voice:—
               "I knew I should fail, and oh, it was so hard, no friends; it was dreadful to see so many faces—and—and Jane I shall go away to-morrow. I can take in sewing or something, and—" Here she sat up in bed and her eyes seemed to stare in horror at the wall.
               "What is it dear, do you see anything?"
               "No. He is dead—dead."
               She pointed to the door and whispered huskily, "dead—he came in the door."
               Jane was now really frightened; and sitting down on the bed, she took the child in her arms and laying the poor head on her shoulder, tried to soothe her.
               "What was it dear? Did you see anything?"
               "Yes, John, he came into the hall while I was singing, and—he is dead. Of course, I failed then—failed—yes, failed."
               "Perhaps he is not dead. It is only a rumor. He may be alive yet, Livingston will telegraph to-morrow."
               "No, no, he must not. Besides, he is dead."
               Jane stroked the throbbing forehead and laid her down again. Then calling the maid they undressed her, and put her to bed. She was weak and exhausted, and rest was imperative. Then she turned down the gas and bade the maid go. She took the poor tear-stained face in her hands and kissed it.
               "God will help you, dear. Be strong, be brave, and try to endure unto the end. 'Sorrow may last for a night; but joy cometh in the morning.'"
               They allowed her to sleep late the next morning. About ten o'clock Jane went up to her with some tea and toast. She took it in bed, and then asked to be allowed to sleep a little longer.
               "As long as you please dear. Shall I draw the curtain down again?"
               "Yes, please. Thank you. Jane you are a dear good—"
               Jane's quick ear caught the sound of the distant door bell. She paused to listen. She heard voices in the lower entry and abruptly left the room. Fanny sank down among the pillows, and fell asleep. It was Livingston's voice Jane had heard, and wondering what errand brought him to the house at that hour, she hastened down.
               As she went down stairs she heard another voice in the parlor. It seemed very familiar, yet she could not recall it. She entered the room, and there stood John a living fact before her. She was greatly surprised and shook his great brown hand warmly. How changed he was; so stout, sun-burned and handsome. His full beard was very becoming and he seemed the same jovial fellow as of old. He offered his cordial congratulations to Jane and then began to tell about himself.
               "Just got here! Landed from Honolulu ten days ago at San Francisco. Pushed right on day and night, and reached here yesterday afternoon. I went to work at once to hunt you up. You had gone out to a concert. I would have left my card, only I had none. I went to the concert and—well you know how it is. Fanny was an old flame of mine, and I was greatly surprised to find her a public singer. Capital voice, and wonderfully pretty."
               Jane had not a word to say. Everything was now plain, and Fanny, the dear girl, must be called. But, did he care for her? He called her an old flame. Did that mean anything? Was he married now?
               "Say, was it not rather queer about that rumor. They had it that I was dead. All a mistake, another man, same name, so queer to read an obituary of one's self in the papers."
               Jane resolved to put things to the test, and she said:
               "Where is your wife, John?"
               "Bless you, I am not so happy. That is what I came back to the States for. I have made my pile, and now I am after the proper person, you know."
               In a moment Jane had her plans formed. She called Livingston to her side, and told him to take himself off, and leave his friend in her hands. Like the obedient young man that he was, Livingston excused himself saying he must return to the office.
               John was evidently not displeased, and Jane politely requested him to lay aside his things and stay to lunch. Her mother was out shopping, and in the meantime she would do the honors.
               "Take a paper please, while I speak to my people, and then I'll be with you. You will find the morning paper on the table."
               The moment she was free, she ran up stairs singing to herself:—
               "'Oh, Thou that telleth glad tidings to Zion, Sing, shout—'" And bursting into Fanny's room she cried, or rather sang:—"'For thy King cometh unto thee.'"
               Fanny opened her eyes in surprise. In a moment Jane's arms were about her, and her voice was in her ear singing, oh! so joyfully:—
               "'Rejoice greatly, oh daughter of Jerusalem, For thy King cometh unto thee, and he shall speak peace unto your soul.'" Speaking. "There! chicken! Joy cometh in the morning. Get right up. We have company in the parlor waiting to see you."
               "Now dress," she continued. "Dress in your prettiest. Put on your sweetest smiles, and best bib and tucker, and come down and see who has come!"
               "Who is it?"
               "Never mind. Blue is the most becoming to you, dear, and your coral earrings, and I'll send the maid to dress your hair. Now, hurry!"
               In a few moments she came down looking pale and resigned. She found the parlor door open, and hearing Jane's voice within, she entered. The moment she crossed the threshold, she saw a big, brown-faced gentleman standing on the rug. She gave a little start and paused abruptly. How like him! Was it really he? No, yes. She stood rooted to the floor, and then he smiled and came towards her. Her hands shook, and Jane came to her side and took her right hand. She felt relieved and extended her left to him.
               "How do you do, Miss Dean?"
               "Well Jo—Mr.—excuse me—"
               "Oh! of course, call me John if you like."
               She blushed deeply, and turned to Jane. She was gone. Fanny looked about the room in a bewildered way, and then quietly sat down on the sofa. He, too, seemed much surprised and stiffly took a chair opposite to her.
               "Are you well John?"
               "Yes, in first class order. It is a long time since we met."
               "Yes, two years."
               "So long! How time flies."
               "What have you been doing all this time?"
               "Oh knocking around in the Sandwich Islands. Business, making money, and that sort of thing. You have been studying in Europe."
               "Yes, I returned only a week back."
               "Then you have been away since we parted on the wharf in Jersey city?"
               She smiled faintly and nodded her head in silence. There was a dead pause. She gazed around the room, at the pictures, and at the parlor organ, and wondered if he cared for her now. Probably not. He may be very rich now, and would not care for a penniless singer like herself.
               He lost in admiration for her matured and refined beauty, and with his heart aching over her failure, could not find words to express the great thought in him. At last he tumbled awkwardly into it.
               "I heard you sing last night, Fanny."
               Her eyes brightened. He called her by her christian name. She smiled faintly and said:—
               "Yes, it was a wretched failure. Did n't you think so?"
               To her surprise he said abruptly, "Yes, I think so. Have you seen what the papers say about you?"
               "No! Read it to me."
               He took a paper from the table and read:—
               "'Miss Dean was so troubled with nervousness that she could not do herself justice. As far as we could judge she has a good voice.'"
               "Is that all?"
               "Yes, all."
               "It is not half as bad as I expected. However it makes little matter. I have decided never to sing again."
               "By Jove, I am glad of it."
               With this sudden speech he rose, and came and sat down beside her. She did not shrink from him and he took courage.
               "Miss Dean—Fanny, I wish you would give up music."
               "Give up music!" she said, turning away and looking earnestly at the organ. "Why should I? I love it!"
               
               "I don't exactly mean that, I mean, I wish,—I wish you would not sing in public again."
               With feminine perversity she said: "I cannot think of it. It is my only means of support. I am very poor now, John, I have spent my all in learning to sing, and sing I must."
               "Hang money!" said he vigorously, if not elegantly.
               "John!"
               "Fanny, I say give it up. I'll offer you a fair consideration. I've been a fortunate man. Fanny, I will give you half a million of dollars if you will never sing again. That is, in public."
               "John, I really do not understand you. You must not say such things to me."
               "Why not," he cried, starting and standing before her. "You are not engaged?"
               She bent her eyes to the carpet, and shook her head.
               He sat down beside her and somehow his arm fell behind her. She did not object at all. She even wanted to lay her head upon it; but, perversely would not.
               "Fanny, my fortune is yours. You shall have all my money, if you will give up music."
               "You must not say such strange things to me. I do not want it, unless—" Then she paused, and said dreamily as if talking to herself:—
               "Money, and music—and—and—"
               "What more will you have?"
               "Money, John, I don't want it. Music I love it, and I would throw it all away for—"
               "What?"
               "Oh, John!"
               "For love?"
               "Yes!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               Playing a reed organ is not an entertaining performance to one who has tried the greater glories and dignity of a pipe organ. Our hero chafed against his position, and looked for a better place, but without success. Then he resolved to make a bold push. The church should build him an organ. He mentioned the matter to the church committee; but they would listen to no such extravagance, and he was obliged to give up the matter for a time.
               Still he would not cease practicing nor abate one jot of his earnest study. One day he would have an organ, if he had to build it himself. As in England, so now, he took every opportunity to examine and listen to the best instruments, and lived and almost dreamed organs. Concentrating his whole mind on one idea he toiled on, hoping almost against hope. His money was getting low, he had but little society. He visited none, and none called upon him. The delights of feminine society, which he was peculiarly well fitted to enjoy, were denied him, and in his loneliness, disappointment and poverty, he began to be discouraged. Would he ever succeed. Would he ever be able to win a first class education? Was not music a snare and a delusion? He saw the well fed and warmly clad clerks and salesmen in the shops, and he almost envied them. They did not care for music, they had society, friends, wives, and children, and were happy. He had nothing,—not even happiness.
               In a spirit of perpetual longing and unrest he studied and worked on in feverish haste, wishing the days would fly, the faster that he might find—what? Everything, friends, love, wealth, and more than all, music.
               He began to doubt if he were doing right. Had he not better let his hands to some carpenter, leave the heights he hoped to scale, and aiming low, hit something cheap and commonplace. No, a hundred times no. He thought of Fanny Dean and remembered her words, "Don't give up the ship." He remembered that other friend of his boyhood; that Jane, what a magnificent creature she was. "Live on crusts! Work! Do anything, only, get the education you desire."
               He was living on crusts, and he could continue to do so, if he had a good organ to play. That dreadful squeaking melodeon—dead skeleton of an extinct species—was only an aggravation. If he could only feel the deep notes of the great pipes shake the floor, had he the wonders of the "swell" at his command, and a goodly number of stops—no, a very few stops would satisfy him. So long as they were full and powerful, he would be satisfied and happy.
               He would try once more to induce the church to build an organ. He would take the work into his own hands. Starting out alone in the evening, he went from house to house with a subscription paper, soliciting the money to build an organ. After spending a deal of time and patience over a most uncongenial task, he found he had accumulated eight hundred dollars. The matter was laid before the congregation, and the only result was, that he was laughed at for his pains.
               Build a church organ for eight hundred dollars! It was preposterous. Three thousand was the very lowest sum that could be named. Undaunted he replied that for the money he obtained, he could build an organ that would satisfy them in every respect. His earnestness carried the day, and under the advice of a committee he was allowed to try his hand at the work.
               This may seem to most readers an uninteresting and trivial matter, unworthy of record. In itself; it is unimportant. In connection with our hero's musical progress it was the last step that carried him over the hill of difficulty, and led to fame, triumph, and success. It shows the bent of his genius, and makes a necessary link in the chain of discoveries and lessons that made his musical education.
               It is impossible that an active, retentive mind, well supplied with powers of observation should follow an art or science for years without making some original discoveries. They may not be new to others, yet to him they may be entirely original. Young Colburn discovered many of the problems of Euclid, and was surprised to see them in print, after he had found them out for himself. So, this young man in the study of music, found out some new points, that are not generally known. Though a few have acquainted themselves with them, yet to the general reader, and to the musically inclined person, they may be of value.
               Studying, thinking, almost dreaming about his beloved instrument, our hero arrived at this general law or theory of its construction: An organ is an instrument composed of many instruments combined, and under the control of one player. It was not an invention produced entire from one brain; but a growth. The original idea was lost in historic obscurity. In outline it was an instrument with a bellows that supplied wind to a row of pipes, each one of which was connected with a key. In time the idea was expanded, and instead of one row, two or more were used, and machinery was arranged so that the player could use the different rows of pipes or stops at pleasure. The idea having been started, grew rapidly, and to-day over one hundred different rows, each having a character of its own were in use, and from St. Cecelia's organ held in the hand we have advanced to a vast temple of music filled with all the resources that science, art, and mechanics can command.
               
               Looking at a modern organ, he saw that almost unknown a great system of arrangement had grown with the growth of the instrument. To the uninstructed player coming to a great organ with its four banks of keys, its cloud of stops, and its bewildering maze of machinery, the vast engine seems overwhelming and confusing to the last degree. To our hero it had become reduced to a very simple matter. He thought he discovered a family likeness in the stops, and like a musical Cuvier he constructed a system of classification that at once made everything plain.
               The first group that attracted his attention were the Diapasons. There were many of these, some loud, more soft, some high, some low. Through them all there ran a certain family likeness, a peculiar character of tone that proved them related to each other. Moreover, he knew that the principle upon which they were constructed was the same. Their tone-color quality, or timbre he called blue. Not that such a thing as relation of tone and color is possible except in imagination. He fancied it blue. In this class he placed the "Open Diapasons," "Octave," "Super-octave," "Mixtures," etc.
               The next group he called green, and thought it best represented by the "Stopped Diapason." It included the "Gedekt," "Sub Bass," "Melodia," "Claribella," "Dopple flote," and any of the flutes. The Diapason, or blue group were characterized by roundness and sonorous fullness. The green or Melodia group were distinguished by a smooth, woody and flute-like quality.
               Next he resolved another group out of the mass, and in it gathered all the "reeds" and "trumpets." These he fancied produced a red tone-color. They were ringing, clangy, and martial, and formed the most pronounced family in the whole range. To this group he gave the "Bassoon," "Trumpet," "Hautboy," "Vox Humana," "Clarionette," "Clarion," "Tuba Mirabalis," etc.
               Further study brought out another group that seemed to be allied to the blue Diapasons and the red Reeds, yet manifestly distinct from either. This he called the "Gamba" group from its most prominent representative: the "Viol de Gamba." These were noted for a peculiar string-like tone mingled with the roundness of the blue and yet resembling in a measure the clangy tint of the red reeds. These he imagined gave a yellow tone, and included such stops as the "Viola," "Dulciana," "Gamba," "Saliconal," etc.
               Every organ stop belonged to one of these classes. Some seemed related to two, but a sharp ear easily put them in their true place and by this simple classification the whole matter was made plain. The confused multitude ranged themselves thus easily into a system that a child could grasp and understand.
               The blue tones he called the "organ tone," the green was the "flute tone," the red the "reed tone," and the yellow the "string tone." And this the whole of the entire matter.
               
               A skillful painter mingles all colors in his picture. A great organist combines every timbre into his tone-picture.
               With his seven primary colors the painter produces a countless range of mingled tints and shades, and men are charmed with his skill. The musician with his still smaller tone-spectra weaves a tone-picture of varied hues, and men listen in wonder and delight at the seemingly endless variety of tones. On the palette there are but seven colors, in the organ or orchestra but four,—string, wood, reed and brass, yet from one comes a picture, and from the other a sonata or symphony.
               Here, then, was the problem. To construct a church organ for the sum of eight hundred dollars. This sum would hardly build the case they said. That was not true and he knew it. However, he did not tell them so, but sat down to select from the hundred or more known stops such as his little subscription list would command.
               Small need to study the matter. It was plain enough. Take one of each group. On his palette lay the four colors of his tone-spectra, blue, green, red, and yellow. If he had these, he had all. There might be, indeed, but one of each, still he had them all. An instrument of fifty times the cost could have no more tone-colors. It might have shades of red and green, blue and yellow; but they would be but shades, varieties of these four and nothing more.
               At last the aim of his life was reached. He could have an organ small though it be. It should have one grand Diapason, a deep woody Bourdon, a brilliant reed stop, and one charming yellow-toned stop. If he had these what more could he want. It should have but one bank of keys, and be in the eyes of many people a small affair, still it was an organ, and he should play it himself as often as he pleased.
               Six weeks passed away and it was done. It was Saturday night when the builder pronounced it finished, and gave him the key. He ate his cheap little supper of tea and dry bread, and hastened to the church. The bellows boy was ready, and unlocking the door they went into the dark church. It was well that it was dark, for the young man's hands shook and tears gathered in his eyes. With averted face he lit the gas and bade the lad go to his place. He wished to be alone. Slowly he opened the desk, sat down before the bright keys, and was silent. Strange thoughts filled his mind. Here was his organ. At last he was an organist. Stop. Was he? No. Far from it.
               He had now his wish. With this beautiful instrument to inspire him, he could go on and in time reach the goal of his desires. Then he pulled the bellows signal, and watched with sparkling eyes the wind guide creep along. He would draw every stop, great Diapason, deep-rolling Bourdon, sparkling reeds, delicious Melodia, quaint Gamba, sweet voiced Dulciana, and—ah! this was all there was. A meagre assortment. What, mattered it? The pipes were built upon the "grand scale," and as far as they went were as good as those in the most costly organ known.
               Ah! one more. The octave coupler. That for brilliancy and cumulative effect: What should he play. Anything—some chords. He touched a key. A resonant bolt of sound shot out, and he laughed to himself. A pleasurable excitement filled his being and at the instant an anthem of praise and joyfulness burst from the pipes. How the dark, empty church echoed with the strong triumphant song. With burning hands and flushed face he paused. From what oratorio had he been playing? What joy-hymn had come to him from some forgotten book! He played it again and made a discovery. It was his own. The inspiration of the hour had brought it forth. In a fever of haste and joy, he tore a blank page from a music book, and ruling off the lines wrote it out as nearly as he could recall it. He wrote beneath it, "To Him be glory and thanks forever." Then to the organ again. Closing all the stops but the Dulciana he began again. The spirit of music and the Lord was upon him. A woodland song full of peace and joy sprung up beneath his fingers. On and on he went in a delicious dream of peace, satisfaction and triumph.
               This too he hastily wrote out and then closing the organ, dismissed the boy and returned to his lodgings. He could play no more. He crept away to bed with an unsaid prayer in his heart. The night wore on. The waning moon looked in upon him and he awoke. His lips moved and he murmured his own song:—"To Him be thanks and glory forever."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               On a winter's afternoon three young ladies met in a certain parlor, in a distant city. Jane, Fanny and Julia.
               "And now you are married I wish you great joy."
               "The same to you, my dear."
               "Chicken, you are personal."
               "You 're another."
               Julia sat apart and with a smile looked upon the young wives, each too happy in her way to be even sensible.
               "Such language, girls!"
               "That's it," said Jane. "We are but girls, though Fanny's grand house is rather oppressive at times."
               "It is not of the house I am glad. It is of my John."
               "I dare say," said Julia with a smile on her face and a great pain in her heart.
               "My Livingston, I say," added Jane.
               Why were these girls so innocently happy, and she so sad. She would not mar their joy by sowing her own sorrow. Her heart ached over it knew not what. Here were these three. Rich, prosperous, happy. Happy! No, not while she lived could her sin and sorrow leave her.
               Love might have been hers had she not rejected it. Where was he now—her discarded lover. Perhaps a wanderer, alone, friendless, and she rich in friendship, music, social position and money. What was money or music without love? Why were these two girls so blessed and she so—
               She was glad a servant came in and broke the unspoken thought. She might yet find him. The maid laid a small roll of paper in her mistress' hand and then departed. Even now his message had come, and she knew it not.
               "What is it?" said Jane.
               "Merely some new music I bought this morning." Unrolling it she displayed a number of songs. The three gathered round and, began to examine them. Among them were two new pieces, fresh from the press. Julia took them up and looked at them in a careless way, as mere thin vaporings from some unfledged composers. As her eye ran along the pages she became more interested, and at last rose, went to the piano, and began to play one of them. A woodland song fall of checkered sunshine, quaint shadows, suggestions of the summer breeze, the shady brook, and the cool ferns on the wet stones.
               
               She played it through once and then sang it. Fanny and Jane sat entranced, at the singular sweetness of the music, and the odd fancy displayed in the words. When she finished they both said:
               "What is it? Who wrote it?"
               Julia turned back the leaf and read the title. "The Wildwood and the Brookside Flower, By F. B."
               "F. B.! Who can she be?"
               "I cannot guess," said Julia from the piano. "Who ever he may be he is a genius."
               "He!"
               "Yes, he! No woman could write such music as that. I should like to meet a man who could do as well."
               "Let us hear it again," said Fanny. "It is a beautiful song. Why I am sure I should admire to sing such a gem."
               "I wish you would," said Jane.
               "Here is another by 'F. B.'—a hymn of Praise, for a soprano voice."
               "Sing it, please."
               The singer at once began.
               "To Him be thanks and glory forever." Did she not know his music? Did she not discover her lover in the tones and words? She knew not that it was his, yet somehow she felt unaccountably glad and hopeful.
               The two listeners came and stood behind her as she sang. Such a hymn of gratitude and joy. They listened breathlessly and when it was finished all three broke into hearty applause of the music. Applauded not the singer, though well they might, but the composer.
               "Certainly F. B. is a great man to write two such songs. I should so like to see him."
               "Really! How interested you are! Shall I write to the publisher and ask the young man to call?"
               "It is not a young man. There is a maturity and solidity in the music that no beginner could attain."
               The subject was here dropped and other matters came up just as they always will. Not all of it is worth reporting and we may omit it.
               After awhile Jane thought her opportunity had come. She had wished for certain reasons to ask Fanny a question, the answering of which might not be pleasant.
               "Fanny, why do you never sing now? We have not heard a solo from you since you were married."
               "You remember my failure?"
               "No, we do not. You were merely frightened and failed to sing at all. It was not in any sense a musical failure."
               "Indeed it was. Was it not, Miss Ward?"
               "No, I think not. A person of your talents should try again."
               "Just my sentiments," said Jane. "I think it is a shame, that you should so hide your light under a bushel."
               
               "But, I do not care to sing in public. I often sing for John. He is audience enough for me. Besides—"
               "Besides, what?"
               "Besides, I do not like the idea of hearing married women in public."
               "Why not," said Julia.
               "I hardly know. John does not wish me to, and I promised I would not."
               "Excellent, my dear," replied Jane. "Quite right and proper, no doubt; but—"
               "But, what?"
               "I think it unfair. You have a splendid voice and a good education. How can you selfishly refuse to afford pleasure to others!"
               "It is John's wish, Jane."
               "I know it dear, and I wish it were not."
               "Jane!"
               "I think she is right," said Julia gravely. "Her husband objects,—that is enough."
               "Well, I think it wrong to do so. Why, because she is married, should she extinguish her light, bury her talents, and refuse to gratify all save one!"
               With her old impetuous enthusiasm for music, Jane went on. "I declare it is too bad. What was the good of your two years study in London, and your wasted time and money? You are far too talented a person to be—"
               "Jane! my dear—"
               Before she could finish the door opened and her husband appeared. His arrival was most inopportune. The subject was dropped and commonplaces were in order. We will not report them. After some desultory talk, John remarked that there was to be a charity concert by the Schubert Choral Union the following week.
               "Yes," said Jane, "and we want Fanny to sing for us."
               "We?" said John.
               "Yes, we, Livingston, Julia, and the rest of us. Livy is President of the society, you know! We are to sing "Mendelssohn's Hymn of Praise," and as it will not fill up the whole programme, there are to be selections at first, and we want Fanny to help us. She need only sing one piece and I think She ought to oblige us. She has not had a chance to do herself justice since she returned from her studies."
               Fanny and Julia were surprised at the audacity of this move, and were silent.
               For a moment he was at a loss for a reply. She took advantage of it and returned to the charge.
               "Many of her friends have asked why she does not now that her education is finished. Besides, some of then think she ought to have a chance to show what she can do. I know she will succeed and win a great triumph."
               "Jane!" said Fanny, "John does not wish, it—that is enough."
               "Well," said her husband. "I never thought of it in that light. I am sure I have no objection just for once, if you and Livingston approve."
               Jane rose from her seat and gravely shaking John by the hand said:—
               "Much obliged, my boy, you are eminently wise, for really, you do not know what a musical jewel of the first water you have in your wife. She is going to be a success."
               John was pleased at this quaint expression of thanks, and said he was satisfied yet he was not quite at ease about the matter.
               Julia was pleased for she felt sure Fanny had failed through sheer fright. She said as much in her quiet way, and all seem gratified at the prospect.
               "For my part I'm glad and sorry," said Fanny. "I am sorry, because I do not believe somebody quite likes it; and glad, for I mean to sing these two beautiful songs of F. B's. I think they are perfectly inspiring."
               A week later the public prints announced that there would be a Charity Concert by the Schubert Choral Union, in the "Mozart Temple." "Mendelssohn's Hymn of Praise," and a miscellaneous programme would be given, and Mr. Frank Brown the new organist of the society would make his first appearance.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               Fanny, her husband, Julia Ward, Jane and Livingston met in the ante-room behind the stage of the Mozart Temple. There are one or two others in the room, and a subdued buzz of conversation fills the place. The eventful night has come. Fanny is once more to try her fortune as a singer. The open door leads into an entry way that opens upon the stage. A murmur of preparation is in the air. The choir are taking their places on the stage overhead, the house is filling up and over all rolls the deep bass of the organ though muffled and dulled by the distance.
               The organ ceased and a curious silence seemed to overspread the place. The people in the room went out, and our party were left alone. Presently the first strains of the orchestra began to steal into the room, and as the music came they fell into silence, and sat, each busy with his or her thoughts. Livingston happy and content in his Jane, listened passively. Music had a very different aspect to him now. Fanny was nervous and busy conning the music she was to sing, while her husband listened, half regretfully and with, perhaps, a tinge of despondency. Julia sat by the open fire and gazed dreamily into the blaze. What was all this to her? Music. Did she not have too much of it? How empty it all was without what—love? Yes, she might as well confess it, and she glanced at her two married friends and gazed into the fire again. Would she ever see him again? Hope deferred had made her heart sick. He came not—and her burden was almost too great for her.
               Jane sat by the door happy and satisfied with herself and everybody. Glad the concert promised to be a success, glad Fanny had a chance to show what she could do, and glad Livingston had expressed himself so well pleased with the new organist, who had been selected for the Choral Union. Content and at peace she listened to the music floating in at the door.
               What is that? Footsteps and voices in the entry. Three gentlemen talking in an undertone just outside the door. In spite of herself she overheard every word.
               "Good evening, Mr. Brown."
               "Good evening Sir."
               "Ah! Clifford, glad we meet. Let me introduce you to our new organist."
               "Mr. Clifford, Mr. Frank Brown."
               "Glad to make your acquaintance Sir."
               "Brown—Frank Brown," said Jane to herself. "The name seems familiar yet I cannot locate it. Where have I heard it?"
               "We are to hear some of your music to-night, Mr. Brown?"
               "Yes, one of the singers is to sing two of my songs. They are the first I ever wrote."
               "Indeed, then you should feel very proud. I'm sure F. B. need no longer hide under those initials."
               Here a sudden burst of music from the band drowned the voices and she heard no more. It was enough! What a discovery! The composer of the two songs Fanny was to sing, was the new organist. She would go and tell her at once. No, it would only frighten her to know it.
               The band ceased, and in a moment the conductor came in and announced that he was ready for the next piece. In the hurry of arranging Fanny's dress, and bidding her good speed, the incident in the entry was forgotten. With a backward glance of hope and joy, Fanny started on her second mission, and the three friends relapsed into a painful silence. Presently they heard the piano and knew her hour had come. Jane was greatly excited, and unable to sit still alone. She went and sat on a low stool by Julia's side.
               Fanny's voice floated into the room, clear, limpid and confident, though subdued and far away. She was singing the "Wildwood song."
               "Julia!" said Jane in a whisper.
               "Well, dear."
               
               "I have made a discovery."
               "Yes."
               "The F. B. who wrote the song Fanny is singing is our new organist, Mr. Frank Brown."
               "How do you know?"
               "I overheard some one saying so in the entry. Is n't it very queer?"
               "Y—es, Very. Does Fanny know it?"
               "No."
               "So very strange! Very strange! What did you say was the name?"
               "Frank Brown."
               "Frank Brown?"
               "Yes, Why! my dear, are you ill?"
               "No, please give my shawl."
               "Julia. How pale you are. What is it, dear?"
               "Nothing."
               Her hands were tightly twisted together over her bosom, and her lips seemed bloodless and rigid. She gazed absently at the fire and was silent.
               "Julia?"
               "My dear, what is it?"
               "It is nothing."
               Jane wrapped the shawl about her in silence.
               A stormy peal of applause echoed through the entryway and Julia smiled faintly. "I am glad for Fanny."
               "So am I."
               "I do not wonder they applaud that song, it is a gem."
               There was a slight pause, and then the noble hymn began. Julia listened intently with glistening eyes and dilated nostrils. It was so like him. His hour of triumph had come. She was glad for him—and—he was near.
               A loud burst of applause followed and Fanny returned triumphant, happy and satisfied. They crowded round her and congratulated her upon her success. There could be no doubt about it now. She had won liberal applause, had proved her ability, and made her fortune. Fortune! What did she care for it, or the music either. She went to her husband. He was glad in her success, but she heeded it not. Having love she had all, and though success was good, very good, it was not essential to her happiness. Love was enough.
               Time moves fast on such occasions, and all too soon the conductor came to call Julia and Fanny, for their parts in the "Hymn of Praise." John and Livingston went out into the house and the opening overture to Mendelssohn's great cantata began. Jane preferred to wait in the ante-room. Julia's maid was there and she wished time to think. Many things mystified and puzzled her.
               High in his seat above the crowded stage sat the organist. Below, around, the massed choir, rank on rank, with the orchestra in its centre. Beyond—the wide floor and airy galleries—a vast sea of upturned faces. He had climbed up to his place. His years of toil were requited. He had his heart's desire. Honor, position, success, and music—all were his. He had reached the top of the hill—it was bare. He had his triumph and his wish—they were void, empty. Something else was wanting. With his duties before him he did not allow himself to think much about it till the tenor solo began.
               Down at the foot of the stage stood the singer. His voice came up weird and far away. 
                     
                        "'We call through the darkness,
                        Watchman will the night soon pass.
                        The watchman only said:
                        Though the morning will come,
                        The night will come also.'"
                     
                  
               
               How much, he thought, how much like my life. A weary round of days—waiting for her. What is all this music after all without her love. How long ago it seemed since she flung his love away.
               The singer:— 
                     
                        "'Ask ye, inquire ye, ask if ye will,
                        Return again and ask,
                        Watchman will the night soon pass?
                        Will the night soon pass?'"
                     
                  
               
               Aye, would the night soon pass? It was a long night of months since he had met her. Where in this wide America could he find her. Men said that he was a great organist now. His compositions had just won a great triumph. Of what avail was it all without her? What was music without love?
               The singer:— 
                     
                        "'Watchman will the night soon pass?
                        Will the night soon pass?'"
                     
                  
               
               The music seemed to fill him with unutterable longings. It was the song of a waiting, weary soul, watching for the morning. The chords were thick and heavy with sorrow. The clarionets wailed plaintively and the violins seemed to sigh. Darkness and gloom filled every tone.
               The singer:— 
                     
                        "'Watchman will the night soon pass?
                        Will the night soon pass?'"
                     
                  
               
               Then came a dead pause in the music. The despairing cry of the song seemed to melt away into heaven. He held his breath, and looked down upon the stage. The pause became oppressive, the silence horrible. His fingers grasped the seat convulsively.
               Suddenly like a ray of light broke forth a clear clarion-like soprano voice:— 
                     "'The night is departing, departing.'"
                  
               
               Radiant, glorious, in living presence she stood before him. It was her voice—herself—his Julia come again.
               He would have run down upon the crowded stage to her, had not stern duty kept him. The conductor waved his baton energetically, the choir rose and from the orchestra, choir and organ came the mighty hymn:— 
                     
                        "The night is departing,
                        The day is approaching,
                        Therefore, let us cast off the works of darkness
                        And let us gird on the armor of light."
                     
                  
               
               
               The music moved quickly on. Happy, exultant, and with intense zeal he did his work. Never had the organ inspired the choir to such perfection and precision in their difficult work. He could see the conductor smile, and hear the audience applaud the unequalled performance. It was a great success, both for the choir and himself. At last the great theme of the work was reached and in solemn, earnest tones he played the concluding measures while he heard her voice high over all, in the aspiring strain:— 
                     "All that have life and breath sing to the Lord."
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               The concert ended. The choir and audience dispersed. The new organist shut his instrument and prepared to go in search of— Go where? Could he find her? Would she receive him? How blind he had been. He had read her name in the programme and knew not that it was she. He would call upon her just once. He looked at the great clock. Only ten. Not too late.
               Before he could leave the desk a party of gentlemen, officers of the society including Mr. F. Livingston Grinnel, the president, drew near, and with hearty congratulations on his great success, both as composer and player led him away to make the acquaintance of some ladies. He could not decline though he failed to see what interest the ladies had for him. Strangers, all of them. However, he might meet her among them.
               Jane heard the last strains of the concert with mingled feelings of surprise and expectation, pleasure and dread. What if the missing student, the composer, lost lover and organist were—
               Her thoughts were interrupted by the entrance of Fanny, John, her husband, and a party of ladies and gentlemen. They were all talking merrily together and seemed in excellent spirits over something. Among them was a young man, a stranger. She glanced at him for a moment, and then looked about for Julia. Why did she not come with the rest? Where had she and the maid gone? The disappearance of both was singular. Before she had time to think much about it, the janitor of the Hall came in and said that Miss Ward desired to be excused, and that she had already gone to her carriage. Certainly this was a very extraordinary proceeding, and Jane was quite at a loss to account for it.
               Small time for much thought for there was a sudden movement among the company as if something unusual had happened. She went to her husband, and found Fanny talking eagerly with the young stranger while the rest seemed agreeably surprised at something.
               "What is it, Livingston?"
               "It seems Fanny and our Mr. Brown are old friends. He is comparatively a stranger and yet she finds he is the composer of the songs she sang, and an old school—"
               "Why, yes, that is the Rockford boy we knew. I must speak to him."
               "More surprises. Here, John, my wife knows him too. This is—"
               "Jane, Jane," said Fanny, "Come here. This is the boy (excuse me, sir,) you sent to Europe. Is n't it all too wonderful for belief?"
               Once more the three were met. The young man, matured, cultured and dignified, and the two girls, women grown and married, and it is to be supposed properly sobered. Far from it. All of Jane's merry ways and girlish spirit bloomed out as freshly as ever, and she greeted the new organist with that frank, cordial, and hearty manner that has made her the beloved of all who met her. The two ladies nearly quarreled over the young man. Fanny claimed that she had taught him his notes, and Jane insisted that she had told him to go to the town, and finally to Europe.
               The rest stood about amused and interested spectators, and John and Livingston prepared to be jealous and failed signally. As for the young man he took his honors sweetly. These were the two young women to whom he owed his success in life. That he should meet them in his hour of triumph was a sort of poetical justice that seemed perfectly natural. He had been through too much, he had gone down too deeply into the depths of poverty to be upset by success. He knew he had succeeded, he felt secure in the future, and he was perfectly self-possessed. He had music, he was an organist. He had a giant of an organ at command. His songs had been sung in public. The height of his ambition was reached; but his eyes wandered over the company, as if looking for some one, and Jane observed him keenly but said nothing.
               They gathered round him, and as soon as Fanny and Jane would permit, showered upon him words of praise, good will and friendship. Everybody talked as fast as possible, and everybody seemed satisfied and pleased. A little German rushed in, calling for "ze composar of ze little zongs," and breathlessly wanted to buy the copyright, then and there. One gentleman was for taking him out to supper, and everybody pressed him to go home with them, as he was a stranger in the city.
               How very successful was success.
               With becoming dignity he declined and said he would return to his hotel. Everything must have an end, and at a late hour they left the hall, and Jane, Livingston, Fanny and John drove away in their carriage. As they went they reviewed the life of our hero, as far as they knew it, and were happy in the good deeds done.
               Here our interest in these four ends. We have seen how these two girls made these young men, and we have seen that it is true that the society of true and honorable women is the one saving, purifying, and ennobling thing in most men's lives.
               Young men are generally unwilling to admit that they owe anything to young women. Not so our hero. As he entered his room at his hotel he sat down and with a prayerful heart reviewed the years. He was not proud nor even elated. He was satisfied and glad. Not by a word or look had he displayed the least egotism in his triumph. He knew he had worked hard, he knew if it had not been for the encouragement of Jane and Fanny he never would have done anything, and he knew that it was by God's help that all had been done.
               The days of his poverty and toil were over. He had his darling wish. He was a successful man. He put his hands over his face and bowed his head upon the table. It was true. She had deserted him forever. He had hoped against hope. The very thought that she had repented of her refusal was folly, and worse than folly.
               He was a successful man. He had music. Of what avail was it all? Without love it was vanity, emptiness. He plucked the fruit that grew on the mountain of success. He ate, and his mouth was full of ashes.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               And the next day was the Sabbath. Weary from the labor and excitement of his first public appearance, our hero slept beyond the break of day. There was no need to hasten. He had no immediate duties, and it was a day of rest. Rest! He could rest, now. The one object of his life was accomplished. The laboring oar could be drawn in awhile. He could float on the tide of success without fear of dangerous currents.
               For a moment he would rest in a pleasant, thankful minded peace, and watch the grey dawn. Suddenly a knock at the door. What was wanted? "A gentleman, Sir. Wishes to see you right away in the parlor."
               "Yes, thank you, be down at once."
               More success! Greater rewards!
               St. Mary's wanted an organist. Must begin at once. Salary, fifteen hundred dollars. Could not finish the business then, as it was the Sabbath. Still, the work must begin at once; and, if 
                     satifactory
                     satisfactory
                  , business would be discussed on the morrow."
               The young man sat down to his breakfast with mingled feelings of satisfaction and relief. Here was all he could desire. Two positions, two organs, and a comfortable income. No more pinching—soul and body starving. Every opportunity for study, and no cares. His life would now really begin. He could devote his days and nights to art—and be satisfied. Would he, could he be satisfied? He thought of something else and a shade of sadness passed over his face
               The bells rang out in the clouded, frosty air. It seemed a part of a new Paris. Through wide streets, with walks and trees in the centre, with Mansard roofed palaces in brown-stone and marble, the wealth, beauty and fashion of the city took its elegant way to the costly temple. A church indeed! Gothic, of stone, beautiful, church-like, and with a foreign air about it. The carriages passed under the tower and the occupants alighted in dignified elegance, and entered the gate called beautiful, with becoming propriety and impressiveness. This was the grand church,—these the grand people. Stiff and splendid on the outside, but human beings just like the rest of us, and with hearts as warm and true as any under calicos or prints.
               Among the carriages came one in which sat a young woman closely veiled. It was nothing, and none, save the obsequious sexton, heeded her. She alighted, and the carriage drove away. Richly dressed, in manners a lady, she impressed the elegant idlers in the corridors, as a very proper person, and they mildly wished she would show her face. With great dignity she brushed past their impertinences, and suffered the sexton to lead her to a seat. A beautiful place. She, gazed around upon the walls, the stained windows, glorious in living color, the splendid roof springing in mazy gothic arches overhead, with a sense of gratified pleasure. The place satisfied her artistic sense. The dim, religious light, the soothing quiet, and the associations that cling round such architecture calmed her spirit, and she sighed softly, as if it were a relief from some terrible turmoil in her heart. The outward calm she exhibited, was but the suspense following a storm. She bowed her head in a heart-wrung prayer for forgiveness—an unuttered moan of bitterness and sorrow.
               Softly stealing through the air came the notes of the organ. Deep, quiet, prayerful. A heavenly peace seemed to fall on the place. The subdued swish of costly silk, and the rustle of ostentatious satin died away. More than one fair face turned lovely eyes to the corner where the silvered pipes gleamed cold and pure in the half lights. Who is the new organist?
               He sat facing them all, a young man, thoughtful, intent upon his work, and unheeding the looks of fashionable admiration bestowed upon him. The music swelled out louder, as if a thankful, satisfied heart praised God with unspoken words.
               One heard, and softly lifting her fair head drew aside her veil. Pale, subdued, and seemingly resigned, she, too, gazed at the organist; and then abruptly let fall her veil, and leaned her head wearily against the wall. The sun broke through the gathering clouds. and a bar of colored light shone like a glory round her head, while under her veil the tears dropped silently. The sun disappeared and the color faded.
               He was happy, had forgotten her. It was enough. His music showed his glad and quiet heart. How could she stay to hear more? She would go—
               Some ladies entered the pew. It was useless, now. She would bear the service as best she could. The first dreadful discovery of his forgetfulness, and her loss, had cost her a night of regret and remorse. She was calmer now, and would lift her cross, if it cost her life. Perhaps it were better to stay and see if the good man in the pulpit could say aught to comfort her.
               The music ceased. With an earnest voice and manner the good man read from the Word. "Ho! every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.
               Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread? And your labor for that which satisfieth not?"
               Yea, why had she spent her youth in pursuing that which was not bread. She had won fame, money, everything,—save love. Had thrown love away to win art and money. And they satisfied her not. Of what avail was her music? And her money—she hated it.
               Yea, said the young man to himself, "I have dared all—won the prize—and lost everything. It is good—and it satisfieth not."
               What the fashionable congregation thought cannot be known. Our concern is with these two. Both were disappointed, and both were wrong. They had won the prizes of life, each in his or her way, and like many others were disappointed and knew not why.
               The services went on and there was a prayer. Pleading for something better than water that satisfieth not, the preacher prayed for a diviner thirst,—that his people might seek and drink of the real wine and milk without price and above price.
               Then came another prayer—wordless, minor, pleading, and sorrowful.
               One heard, that with bowed head tried to keep back the tears of an almost broken heart.
               A death-like pause spread over the church when the music stopped, attesting the skill of the master hand who had taught the pipes to pray in tones.
               A gentle rustle of preparation and the sermon began.
               "Work ye while it is day. Life is but a round of works and days. To do, to dare, to accomplish, and to work are the great joys of life. Aim high and toil for great ends. Be not content with the commonplace. Seek art, science and culture, yea, seek and find them vain. They satisfy not. Nothing utterly satisfies, but the love of God and man. Yet, seek, toil, study and pursue knowledge. Though the winning may satisfy not the labor does. It is the trying, the striving for that proves our heavenly destiny. Out of labor comes strength, out of seeking, courage, out of striving a noble wish for things higher yet. Art in itself will not satisfy. The toil and the patience art demands, are the divine rewards she holds to view. It is not the art, but the labor that crowns the artist life. It is not the picture but the painting of it that rewards. It is not the song that gratifies, but the ability to sing. Not the work, but the power to do. That is the prize, a nobler dissatisfaction, a more heavenly striving after the power to do still greater work. The power to do, and love. Having these we have all."
               Two of the congregation heard and pondered upon their lives. Lives devoted to art. They saw the truth of these things in their own experience. They had toiled for art, had won the ability to do, to accomplish, and to work. Had they one thing more they would be satisfied, at least as satisfied as any human beings ever can be. They each surveyed their progress in art, and each in his or her way was glad in the work. They could do something. That was the reward of their years of toil. It was enough—almost.
               The service ended. The people passed slowly out while the organ pealed in full and solemn harmony through the beautiful church. One listened with bowed head, and said in her heart that an artist was present—one player knew his power. She was glad for him; it was a pleasure to hear him, she would linger just a little while and hear him play and then she would go away, dissatisfied, alone, neglected. She looked round to see that the people still lingered, and relapsed into a delicious reverie over the happy "might have been."
               The organ seemed to catch her spirit. It lost its severe majesty and became plaintive, sorrowful, and subdued. Entranced she sat in silence, while the moments flew away on golden wings. Suddenly she started and looked about the church. She was quite alone. All gone save the solitary player. Drawing her veil about her face she hastily rose and in silence passed up the aisle. At the door she paused and looked back. The organist absorbed in his work heeded her not and went on idly giving his fancy free rein, so that his very thoughts spoke aloud in tones.
               A sense of unutterable sorrow, a subdued melancholy, dissatisfaction and longing pervaded the music. She listened like one spell-bound. Involuntarily she stretched her hands out to him and leaned against a pew for support. Why does he not look up? Is heaven asleep that it permits them to part thus? Suddenly she rouses herself and bursts through the door in a passion of tears.
               Ah! the sexton alone in the entry way. The people are all gone. He, stupid man, stands in the entry with his hands in his pockets as if he had nothing to do.
               Summoning all her strength, she says calmly:—
               "Is my carriage here, Sir?"
               "No, Miss, all the carriages have gone and I was just going to lock up. It storms, now, Miss."
               "So I see. I ordered the carriage to come for me."
               "Guess how the driver forgot you. Will you wait, Miss?"
               "Yes, but I do not care to keep you here, I can wait outside in the porch."
               "Oh, no Miss, I can leave you inside and shut the door, and when the carriage comes you can let yourself out."
               "There seems to be no other way—I will wait."
               "All right, Miss, I will go then."
               So saying the sexton went out and closed the door behind him. It swung to with a clang and the lock snapped. The man turned round and peering through the small glass window in the door shouted:—
               "The door's locked itself; Miss. I always told the committee that lock would make trouble some day. If you go to Mr. Brown, Miss, in the church, he will let you out. He has a key to the back door. Sorry, Miss, it happened just now. The lock is old and I told 'em it would break some day."
               She nodded through the glass to signify that she understood the situation, and the stupid man went away. To call him back was impossible. To get out seemed equally impossible. She shook the door. Went to the others. Every one locked. She tried to look out the windows, but they were above her reach; and the one little square in the door looked out into the porch under the tower where she could see nothing but the walls, the gothic archway, and the fast falling snow.
               The murmur of the organ floated through the corridor and brought her to a realizing sense of her situation. Escape seemed impossible. She knew there was no afternoon service and that if she waited there till night there was no means of escape. The organist probably only lingering for practice would pass out the other way. The sexton, of course, would not return for hours. Under ordinary circumstances, the position of affairs would be troublesome, and disagreeable. Under the present circumstances her position was positively dreadful. How could she speak to him? How calmly explain the cause of her detention and how ask his assistance? She paced nervously up and down the cold entry way in an agony of perplexity and mortification.
               Suddenly she paused, abruptly tightened her veil about her face, and putting on all the resolute courage she could command she opened the door and in a dignified manner went boldly up the aisle toward the organ. She would treat him as an entire stranger, obtain the key, and pass out.
               The moment she entered the church the organ ceased, and she gave a little start thinking he had discovered her. But he did not seem to notice her and in silence began to close his instrument. She advanced up the broad aisle, and then seeing that he was about to come down into the church she paused just opposite the great walnut baptismal font at the end of the aisle. The young man came down to the floor, advanced towards her, looked up and discovered her standing like a statue before him.
               Every trace of color left his face, and he stood for a few seconds regarding her fixedly. He put out his hand and grasped the back of the first pew. Her heart seemed to leap in her throat and suffocate her. Neither spoke for a moment, and then he said in a half whisper:—
               "Miss Ward."
               He knew her under her veil. The blood mounted to her temples and she reached out and laid her gloved hand on the fretwork of the font for support. The touch seemed to pierce her like a thorn, and her head seemed to throb with fire. What should or could she say? She tried to speak and was not able to utter a word.
               He advanced a step toward her and said in an inquiring tone:—
               "Miss Ward?"
               She seemed to shrink from him, and drew closer to the walnut font. His heart beating in fast stormy blows seemed suddenly to stop. She did not love him! She shrank from his presence. Why was she here, then?
               Presently she said with unnatural calmness, and too painfully accurate care:—
               "Sir, if you please, I was locked in—my carriage—I mean the sexton said you would lend me your key that I may go home."
               He had wit enough to take in the situation at once. He had made a mistake. It was not Miss Ward. How could he have been so deceived. What would the young lady think of his strange conduct. With trembling fingers he searched in his pocket for the key and said:—
               "I beg your pardon, Madam, I mistook you for—well never mind, pardon me. Here is the key. I will open the door—"
               To his infinite astonishment the beautiful figure clinging to the font seemed to droop as if struck a mortal blow. She grasped the rim of the great carved vase and seemed to cling to it for support.
               "Madam, are you ill?"
               She answered not a word; but turned her head away in silence and then with a moan sank on the steps of the chancel. She had evidently fainted, and going to her he attempted to loosen her veil. Instantly she rose and stood before him erect and defiant.
               "I beg your pardon."
               Then he paused and was silent. Not knowing what to do he stood regarding her with a great hope in his heart. Presently she spoke:—
               "I must go out, I need fresh air. Will you please lead the—"
               Now it was her turn to be surprised. He stood silent, with folded arms, before her, steadily and almost sternly looking at her. She quailed visibly before him, and grasped the font again.
               "Will you please remove your veil, Miss Ward?"
               Without a word she did so, and they both recognized each other though both had changed greatly since they had parted in the little church at Rockford.
               He gazed into her beautiful eyes and tried to read the story there. He had but one glance, it was enough. Her lashes swept her cheek, and she turned away her head. His arms dropped by his side, and he stood like one regarding the issues of life and death. The crown of his life was before him. She had come. She loved him still—and he must fly from her. Heaven's gates stood wide before him, and he must turn away into the darkness where he had lived so long.
               A terrible war, a deadly fight went on in his breast. On one side love—on the other, duty—stern, cold, relentless. She was rich, socially above him, and utterly out of reach. He was only a poor organist. The little salary over which he was just rejoicing was a mean gift for her. He had nothing, but his music to give her. It was not enough. Honor, chivalry and self-respect barred the way. He must leave her at once—and forever. While he stood thus silently battling for what he fancied was the right, she drew near and stood before him. He heeded her not and the bitterest experience of her life came to her in a moment. He loved her not. It was more than she could bear. She put her hands over her face to hide the convulsive tears that started. Pride forbade even a sigh. The trial was too great for her, and a half stifled moan escaped from her bloodless lips.
               He started, looked up, opened wide his arms and in an instant she was folded in them, while her head fell on his neck in a passion of tears. For a moment, it seemed an age of happiness, they stood thus, and then he almost rudely shook her off and stood free and alone. She pressed her hands on her head in a bewildered way, clung to the pew railing and then sat helplessly down on the chancel step and sat looking at him with terror in her eyes.
               His face was hid by his hands; but the tears would steal through his fingers. For a moment there was a dreadful pause and then he resolutely put down his hands, and in a disjointed, excited manner spoke thus:
               "Julia, I mean, Miss Ward—forgive me. I was tempted beyond my strength. I had thought my love for you was dead and—it was not. Now, it must be destroyed. Pardon me—pardon me—for showing it when it was wrong to do so."
               "Wrong! Wrong!" she said without looking up. "Wherefore wrong? You are not—"
               "No, I am free, and love you—what am I saying? Forget it. Forget me. Forget everything, and let us part friends and in peace."
               She replied not a word, but held up her hand in a deprecating manner and shook her head.
               For a moment he said nothing, as if trying to muster his forces, and to beat down the war in his heart.
               "It cannot be. We should not have met."
               Her head sank lower and she buried her face in her hands—silent, crushed, desolate. This was too much. Her cross was too heavy for her—and yet what had she done to deserve this?
               "Pardon me, Miss Ward, we did meet, and I lost the reserve I intended to show when this meeting came as I knew it might some time. The fault is mine. You are blameless. Wherefore, wherefore should I offer you my love? Who am I that I should dare to do this thing? Only a poor organist, obscure, unknown in the society in which you move, friendless and penniless, and you—rich, in high social position, my superior in everything. Where is mine honor, my chivalric self-respect—my—"
               His tongue clove to the roof of his mouth, and he was silent, for she rose and stood before him, with an expression on her face he could not understand. He almost trembled before her splendid indignation.
               "Is it this? Oh! Frank, hear me! Hear me for my love's sake!"
               She stayed herself against the walnut font, brushed her hair back behind her ears with an impatient gesture, and said in a subdued voice.
               "You obscure! The plaudits that your songs won last night look like it."
               He started. How did she know?
               She went on with increasing ardor and rising voice.
               "You unknown! It may be true now; but it will not be true long. Your genius cannot remain unknown You comprehend not your own future. I do not wonder. It is too bright for you to understand."
               He stood amazed and filled with a great surprise and joy at her queenly manner and figure.
               "Society! Not in society! Let me tell you society will be glad to seek and welcome you. You poor, perhaps in money, but rich in higher gifts—gifts that money cannot buy. No money—"
               She paused and said wearily: "Money! What is it? Or music? Dust and ashes, or worse—without love. Money, see here it is—" At this word she drew off her jewelled rings and let them fall bounding on the floor. With her foot she crushed one and the diamonds glittered in a brilliant heap on the carpet. With nervous fingers she unfastened her fur cape and it fell about her feet, a splendid wreath. She stepped over it disdainfully and said:—
               "Money! I hate it! Would I were poor. Could I burn my property I would."
               Surprised beyond measure he stood silent before her. She turned away her head, trembled violently, and then leaned heavily against the font while her face became as ashes.
               "Miss Ward—Julia, you forget—"
               "Aye, I do—I forget myself. It was unwomanly, but there was no other way."
               She turned her pale face upon him, and her heavy lids fell over her eyes. He moved nearer and saw her bloodless lips pressed tight in pain.
               Infinite love overriding all conventional rules, love breaking down the bars of rank, love sweeping away the vanities of this world like a flood came to him. She lifted her hands in a despairing gesture. Her lips moved as if trying to speak.
               He opened his arms and said "Julia."
               A smile of heavenly radiance lighted her face. She said in a broken whisper:—
               "Take me."
               And they were wrapped in each other's arms. The sun broke through a rift in the storm and the bars of glorious color fell upon them, and upon the walnut font.
               The great window in the east burned a benediction upon them. The springing arches met above their heads in a maze of beautiful lines as if the flower of their lives bloomed over them. The saints almost smiled in the great north windows and a delicious calm and hush seemed to brood in the shadowy corners, and among the glistening pipes over their heads.
               How long they stood thus neither knew. It mattered little. Then they began to talk in whispers as if some one should hear in the solemn, dim, empty church.
               This contented them not, and presently they went to the splendid organ, turned on the power and through the gothic arches of the beautiful church rang a glorious hymn of joy and thankful hearted peace:—
               
                  
                     
                  
                  All that hath life and breath, sing to the Lord.
               
            
            THE END.
            BOSTON: HENRY L. SHEPARD & CO., [Successors to SHEPARD & GILL.] 1874.
         
      
   
