
    ----CITATION----
        Burdett, Charles, (b. 1815). Margaret Moncrieffe .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5948 wright2-0422
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               MARGARET MONCRIEFFE.
            
         
         
         
            
            
               
               
               
               
               
               
                  AARON BURR'S Celebrated CIPHER LETTER & KEY.
               
            
            LITH, OF SARONY, MAJOR & KNAPP, 449 BROADWAY. N. Y.,
         
         
            
               MARGARET MONCRIEFFE;
               THE FIRST LOVE OF AARON BURR.
               A Romance of the Revolution.
               WITH AN APPENDIX CONTAINING THE LETTERS OF COLONEL BURR TO
                  "KATE" AND "ELIZA," AND FROM "LEONORA," ETC. ETC.
            
            BY CHARLES BURDETT, AUTHOR OF "THREE PER CENT. A MONTH,"
               "SECOND MARRIAGE," "MARIAN DESMOND," ETC., ETC.
            With a fac-simile of the celebrated Cipher Letter and Key.
            
               NEW YORK:
               DERBY & JACKSON, 498 BROADWAY.
            
            1860.
            
            
            
               
                  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, by DERBY &
                     JACKSON, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the
                     Southern District of New York.
                  W. H. TINSON, Stereotyper.
                  GEO. RUSSELL & CO., Printers.
               
            
     
         
            TO WILLIAM CURTIS NOYES, ESQ., This Book IS RESPECTFULLY
               DEDICATED, AS A MARK OF HIGH PERSONAL REGARD AND ESTEEM, AND IN GRATEFUL
               APPRECIATION OF PAST KINDNESS,
            
               BY HIS ATTACHED FRIEND,
               THE AUTHOR.
            
         
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               INTRODUCTION, ix
               
               I.—GENERAL PUTNAM AND AARON BURR, 15
               
               II.—MARGARET MONCRIEFFE, 21
               
               III.—LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT, 29
               
               IV.—PREPARING FOR THE JOURNEY, 42
               
               V.—THE ROYALISTS IN THE CITY, 50
               
               VI.—THE ATTACK AND ITS RESULTS, 62
               
               VII.—THE ROYALISTS PLOTTING, 76
               
               VIII.—A NEW RECRUIT, 84
               
               IX.—MARGARET MONCRIEFFE AT HOME, 94
               
               X.—AN OLD FRIEND, 104
               
               XI.—MARGARET AND HER CONQUESTS, 113
               
               XII.—THE BROTHERS' MEETING, 125
               
               XIII.—A SPY IN THE CAMP, 137
               
               XIV.—GOVERNOR TRYON ON BOARD SHIP, 152
               
               XV.—THE BROTHERS IN COUNCIL, 164
               
               XVI.—MARGARET AND HER LOVER AT HOME, 173
               
               XVII.—THE FIRST TEMPTATION, 182
               
               XVIII.—MAJOR BURR ENSLAVED, 191
               
               XIX.—MARGARET AND THE ROYALIST CAPTAIN, 198
               
               XX.—A NEW CHARACTER INTRODUCED, 211
               
               XXI.—MAJOR BURR, AND CORBIE THE TORY, 223
               
               XXII.—MARGARET FINDS A NEW LOVER, 235
               
               XXIII.—MARGARET RECEIVES A PROPOSAL, 244
               
               XXIV.—SETH ADAMS A PRISONER, 255
               
               XXV.—THE TEMPTRESS CONQUERS, 268
               
               
               XXVI.—A DINNER PARTY AND A QUARREL, 279
               
               XXVII.—MARGARET AND LIZZIE BRAINARD, 296
               
               XXVIII.—CONSEQUENCES OF SETH'S ESCAPE, 305
               
               XXIX.—THE PATRIOT GIRL, 313
               
               XXX.—THE PLOT DISCLOSED, 321
               
               XXXI.—THE TEMPTRESS TRIES HER ARTS AGAIN, 334
               
               XXXII.—THE ROYALISTS IN DANGER, 346
               
               XXIII.—GENERAL WASHINGTON AND THE PLOTTERS, 355
               
               XXXIV.—MARGARET ATTEMPTS TO ESCAPE, 363
               
               XXXV.—AARON BURR FREE AGAIN, 370
               
               XXXVI.—CONCLUSION, 376
               
            
            
               APPENDIX.
               I. 
                  TRIAL OF HICKEY BEFORE THE COURT MARTIAL, 386
                     
                  WARRANT FOR THE EXECUTION OF HICKEY, 396
                     
                     CERTIFICATES OF THE SERVICES OF COL. AARON BURR IN THE AMERICAN
                        REVOLUTION, FROM HIS FELLOW-SOLDIERS: LETTER FROM SAMUEL ROWLAND, TO RICHARD
                        V. MORRIS, ESQ., 398
                        
                           CERTIFICATE FROM THE REV. HEZEKIAH RIPLEY, 399
                           
                           CERTIFICATE FROM MR. ISAAC JENNINGS AND MR. ANDREW WAKEMAN,
                              400
                           
                           LETTER FROM NATHANIEL JUDSON TO COM. R. V. MORRIS, 402
                           
                           LETTER FROM COL. RICHARD PLATT TO COM. V. MORRIS, 403
                           
                           LETTER FROM ROBERT HUNTER, ESQ. TO GABRIEL FURMAN, ESQ.,
                              409
                           
                           LETTER FROM SAMUEL YOUNG, ESQ. TO COM. VALENTINE MORRIS,
                              411
                           
                        
                     
                  MARGARET MONCRIEFFE, GENERAL PUTNAM, AND AARON BURR, 419
                     
                  PARAGRAPH RELATING TO MARGARET MONCRIEFFE, 423
                     
                  COL. BURR DENIES CLAIMING PROTECTION AS A BRITISH SUBJECT, 424
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     II.
                     LETTERS OF COL. BURR TO "KATE," 426
                     
                     LETTER OF COL. BURR TO ELIZA, 427
                     
                     LETTER FROM LEONORA TO AARON BURR, 428
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            INTRODUCTION.
            IN the latter part of the month of May, 1776, the city of New York was garrisoned by
               about thirteen thousand troops, regulars and militia, under the command of
               Major-General George Washington, comprising men from every section of the country
               this side of North Carolina, and as far north as New Hampshire.
            His head-quarters were established at what was then known as Richmond Hill, and which
               is more fully described in the succeeding chapters, now familiar to present residents
               as the country seat of Col. Burr, and after his purchase and occupancy, named Burr's
               Hill.
            The second in command was that gallant and tried old soldier, General Putnam, whose
               feats in the wolf's den have become as household words with every schoolboy in the
               country. He had established his head-quarters at the house well known as No. 1 Broadway, on the corner of Battery Place,
               built many years before by Major Kennedy for his private residence, and in later days
               familiar to New Yorkers as the residence of two mayors.
            General Putnam's aid at this period was Major Aaron Burr, who had sought the post in
               preference to a similar position in the military family of the Commander-in-Chief,
               where he was confined exclusively to the duties of an amanuensis, which did not suit
               his ardent, active military spirit, and General Putnam was glad to avail himself of
               the services of one who had proved himself as eminent with the pen, as with the
               sword.
            In the month of May, General Washington was summoned to Philadelphia to attend upon
               Congress, then in session, and General Putnam was left in chief command, with
               instructions to fortify the city at every point to repel a threatened invasion, as
               Admiral Howe, with his fleet, and an army of some thirty thousand regulars and
               Hessians, had left the waters of Virginia under the command of Lord Howe, and it was
               presumed that the next point of attack would be the city of New York—which
               supposition was fully borne out by subsequent events, as recorded in history.
            On the last day of May, and, of course, during the absence of General Washington,
               General Putnam nam was one day the recipient—through a boat from Staten Island (then
               occupied by the British), bearing a flag of truce—of a letter from Major Moncrieffe
               of the British army, who with his regiment was encamped on the island, in which he
               set forth that the chances and hazards of war had compelled him to leave his only
               child, a daughter just past fifteen, Margaret Moncrieffe, alone and unprotected at
               the house of a widow lady near the town of Elizabeth, and with entire strangers; and
               as he could not foresee what the perils of war might bring forth in a day or an hour,
               and as the locality where she resided might soon become the field of active
               operations, he was loath to leave her there if it could be possibly avoided. He
               therefore implored the general, as a soldier and a gentleman, to afford to his child
               that which he could not—a shelter and a home until such time as he could place her in
               a position of greater security.
            General Putnam promptly replied, that the request would be cheerfully granted, and
               that 
                  in in
                  in
                his own home, in the bosom of his family, she would be at least assured of
               hospitable treatment. The young girl was sent for on the following day (the first of
               June), and from that time remained an inmate of General Putnam's family, until
               detected in communicating with the enemy,
               when she was sent off to King's Bridge, then Gen. Mifflin's head-quarters.
            Miss Margaret Moncrieffe, the heroine of the book, though really only a child in
               years, for she had just passed her fifteenth summer, was, in all that belongs to
               woman of feeling, heart or passion, fully developed, and history has recorded that a
               most romantic attachment sprang up between herself and Major Burr, the handsome,
               gallant and accomplished aid—on her part with all the fervor of her passionate
               nature, on his, with more caution and prudence; and that his love for her was not a
               supreme and reigning passion, may be assumed from the well known circumstance, that
               it was he who having detected her in imparting secret information to Governor Tryon,
               then on board the flag ship, Duchess of Gordon, lying opposite Staten Island, gave
               such information as caused her removal to a place where she would find other and less
               dangerous occupation.
            It was during General Washington's absence that a plot was concocted by Governor
               Tryon, aided by Matthews, a well known Tory, then mayor of the city, who was residing
               at Flatbush, to capture General Washington, hoping thus to terminate the war by one
               bold blow. Margaret Moncrieffe contributed materially to the possible success of
               their plans, in which the Tory residents of the city, together with many Provincials
               who had been bought over, had joined, by conveying secretly to Governor Tryon
               information as to the location and strength of the various fortifications on the
               island; but fuller details of the plot will be found elsewhere.
            The pages which follow are derived from these two incidents—the mutual attachment of
               Aaron Burr and Margaret Moncrieffe, and the infamous plot of Tryon and Matthews.
               Every name is historically correct, save two or three introduced to fill up the
               story. Every incident is historical—the dress and appearance of the principal
               conspirators are described as accurately as could be derived from the authorities
               consulted, and save the main incident, that Aaron Burr was seduced from
               his allegiance to his country, or his devotion to her cause, by Margaret Moncrieffe,
               the author claims that he has woven a fiction founded entirely on facts.
            Without this explanation, he would never present it for public praise or censure.
               With it, which is but simple justice to the best abused and most maligned man who
               ever filled a high and honorable station, the work must abide the decision which the
               public may award.
         
      
      
         
            Margaret Moncrieffe
            
            MARGARET MONCRIEFFE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               GENERAL PUTNAM AND AARON BURR.
               IT was a pleasant morning on the 31st day of May, 1776—not exactly morning, for
                  the sun had passed the meridian nearly an hour—General Putnam was seated in the
                  apartment on the lower floor of his head-quarters, at No. 1 Broadway which he had
                  appropriated as an office for the transaction of all his official business—the
                  reception of reports, the issuing of orders, and all the details which belong to
                  the position of Commander-in-Chief of the troops which then garrisoned the city of
                  New York, some thirteen thousand in number.
               He held his position by reason of the absence of General Washington, who had been
                  summoned by the Congress, then in session in Philadelphia, to consult with the
                  members of that august body (alas! how sadly and woefully changed), with reference
                  to the suspected movements of the British fleet, under Admiral Howe, which convoyed transports containing an army of
                  some twenty thousand regulars and Hessians, under the command of Lord Howe, and
                  which had recently left the waters of Virginia. It was supposed that their next
                  point of attack would be the city of New York, and orders had been given to
                  fortify the island at every accessible point.
               General Putnam was seated, or rather lounging on a hair-covered mahogany sofa,
                  elaborately carved, and studded with brass nails—then, no doubt, thought to be a
                  superb piece of furniture—and was holding in his hand an open letter which he had
                  just perused.
               At a large oval table which stood in the centre of the room, and which was covered
                  with papers lying about in disorder and confusion, was seated a young man, dressed
                  in the blue and buff uniform of the day, such as was worn by the regular troops
                  (when they had any to wear). His sword lay on the floor beside him, and his
                  chapeau had been placed on the other side. He could not have been more than twenty
                  or twenty-one years of age, for his countenance was almost boyish. His face was
                  oval, with a broad, expanded forehead, white as snow, where it had been covered by
                  his hat—his complexion pale, but not sallow, though somewhat bronzed by
                  exposure—his nose was beautifully shaped, and of just proportion to his face—his
                  mouth closely cut, and evincing a spirit of determination and perseverance, fully
                  borne out by the history of his after years, while his chin was small and delicate
                  as a woman's. His eyes were of a dark hazel, so dark, no sign of a pupil could be
                  seen, and the expression of them, when he chose, was wonderful—they could be
                  likened only to those of a snake, for their fascination was irresistible. But the
                  great charm lay in his smile, which no one could resist—so sweet, so mild, so
                  speaking. In figure he was about the medium height—his form as perfect as that of
                  any sculptured model, and there was a grace, an ease, a quiet dignity in all his
                  movements, which spoke one born to achieve greatness.
               Such, in brief, was Major Aaron Burr, at the age of twenty, and who, at that early
                  age, occupied the high and honorable position of Aid to General Putnam, by whom he
                  was treated as a son, and to whom he gave his unlimited confidence. He was engaged
                  in making out some orders previously dictated by the general, when his labors were
                  interrupted by the latter, who, starting from the sofa, said, "There, major, read
                  that—that is the letter just brought by the truce-boat from Staten Island; what on
                  earth can I do with it?"
               Major Burr, laying down his pen, perused the letter, and looking up in the
                  general's face, said in his low, soft, musical voice, for which, elsewhere than on
                  the field of battle, he was so famed, "I see only one course; Major Moncrieffe
                  appeals to you as a soldier and gentleman; as such, you can make but one
                  reply."
               "Well, I suppose that's so; write, then, that General eral Putnam will gladly accede to Major
                  Moncrieffe's request, and will to-morrow dispatch a squad of men to escort his
                  daughter to the city, and that in his quarters, and with his family, she will find
                  a home and welcome, until the position or circumstances of her father might enable
                  him to reclaim her."
               The letter was written, signed, formally sealed, and addressed, and was handed to
                  the orderly with directions to have it sent out to the British truce-boat, then
                  lying off and on, a few hundred yards from the shore.
               The letter which had led to this conversation, had been brought on that morning by
                  a boat from Staten Island; bearing a flag of truce, which was met a few hundred
                  yards from the shore (for of course an enemy's boat was not allowed to come within
                  hailing distance of land), by one from the Provincial general.
               It was from Major Moncrieffe, of the British army, whose regiment was then
                  encamped on Staten Island, preferring a very singular request. The writer stated
                  that the chances of war had necessitated a separation from his only child,
                  Margaret, a motherless daughter, who had accompanied him from England. She was now
                  alone and unprotected at the farmhouse of one widow Adams, near Elizabeth, and he
                  implored General Putnam, as a soldier, a gentleman, and a father, to grant shelter
                  and protection to his child. She was, he said, scarce past fifteen, utterly
                  inexperienced, and required that care and attention which he could not now bestow
                  upon her; and he promised, if his request was complied with, to relieve the
                  general from the responsibility at the earliest possible moment.
               "How am I to get her here, major?" asked the general, taking up the letter of
                  Major Moncrieffe. "He writes that she is at the house of one Mrs. Adams, near
                  Elizabeth. Do you know anything about the place?"
               "Everything, general. Mr. Adams, the father, now dead, used to oversee my uncle's
                  farm near Newark, and, since his death, the widow moved with her daughter, to the
                  place on which they now reside, which belongs to us, and which she occupies rent
                  free as long as she lives. She has a nephew—a bold, dashing young fellow, who ran
                  away from home to follow me through the route to Quebec, and who is now a sergeant
                  in McDougall's regiment."
               "I wish he was in a better place," growled the general, "for that regiment was
                  notorious for its utter lack of discipline, its general inefficiency, and the
                  turbulent disposition of the men.
               "Well, as you know the place and the people, suppose you go over to-morrow and
                  bring this young lady hither. I wonder what she is like."
               "The letter says she is a mere child, and inexperienced. She won't give you much
                  trouble, I fancy. I will take a squad of picked men, and go after her tomorrow,
                  for I shall be glad again to see the good old lady and her daughter."
               
               "Pretty, eh?" said the general, with a comical look, to which Major Burr replied,
                  laughing,
               "Oh, yes, very pretty, general, and a terrible little patriot."
               "So much the better. I wish we had more men like her. But consider that arranged.
                  Now do you go on and finish up those orders. I will take a ride around the works,
                  and see how they advance. I want to have everything finished before General
                  Washington's return, which can't be delayed many days longer;" and seizing his
                  chapeau, he directed the orderly to have his horse brought to the door, and rode
                  off to inspect the works, for he never trusted to others to do that which he could
                  best do himself.
               In the evening, at the tea-table, the general informed his wife and daughters of
                  the intended accession to their family circle, to which, of course, no opposition
                  was offered; and Major Burr having made all his preparations for the morrow's
                  journey—for it was something of a journey in those days, even to Elizabeth—retired
                  early, and left the family to discuss, in anticipation, the possible merits or
                  demerits of the new comer.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               MARGARET MONCRIEFFE.
               THE town of Elizabeth, in the month of June, 1776, was very different in its
                  character and population from the Elizabeth City of the present day. A few
                  scattering log-huts embedded in woods; hundreds of acres of uncleared lands,
                  covered with stately trees, and here and there a small farmhouse, afforded the
                  only evidences of the existence of the town of Elizabeth, as it was then called,
                  whose limits, however, extended for a circuit of many miles around.
               At the extreme end of the township, and on the side nearest to the Staten Island
                  shore, there stood, at the time of which I write, a small farmhouse, as it was
                  then called, though at the present time it would scarcely be dignified with the
                  name of cottage. It was a low, one-story dwelling, built of hewn stone, with a
                  wing extending some thirty feet, which was formed of rough-hewn logs, and
                  plastered with mud.
               The farm on which it was located, had evidently been cultivated for a long time,
                  for the house was surrounded with appliances of comparative comfort and indications of civilization rarely found
                  in that vicinity at that period of our country's history.
               A large orchard of apple-trees fronted the house, and in the rear it was bounded
                  by a forest of maple and chestnut, then, of course, in full leaf, and which
                  contrasted beautifully with the snow-white house; for the homestead, though built
                  of stone, had been white-washed, presenting an appearance as attractive to the eye
                  as it was gratifying to the taste.
               It was, perhaps, an hour before noon, on one of the most sultry days, early in
                  June of the memorable year 1776. Everything about the dwelling was as quiet as
                  though it contained nothing human. There was scarcely air enough stirring to
                  ruffle the leaves on the trees, and the sun, nearly at meridian, poured down his
                  rays with an intensity almost overpowering.
               At this hour, the quiet of the place was disturbed by the tramping of approaching
                  horsemen, and, as the sound reached the house, one of the inmates appeared at the
                  door of the wing, which was appropriated to culinary purposes.
               "My sakes!" exclaimed the party who, on hearing the sound of horses' hoofs, had
                  approached the door; "I wonder if it's more of them marciless cow-boys?"
               "I guess not," was the reply which came from the lips of a young girl, who, with
                  sleeves rolled above her elbows, was hard at work in the suds of the washtub tub.
                  "Colonel Malcolm's men have given them such a fright they won't be around here
                  soon again, I guess."
               "Massy sakes! who on airth be they?" exclaimed the first speaker, as she gazed
                  down the road which fronted the house, and pointed in the direction toward which
                  she was looking; and as she spoke, she shaded her eyes with her hand, as if to aid
                  her vision, rendered indistinct by age.
               "Why, mother, can't you see?" and the speaker, who had left the wash-tub and
                  joined her mother in the doorway, peered out in the direction whence the sounds
                  approached. "Don't you see they are Continentallers? Some scouting-party, I'm
                  sure; and, oh dear me! they've caught me in a nice fix. Mother, you go and get
                  something ready for them to eat;" and, as she spoke, she unpinned her dress, which
                  had been tucked up around her waist, and smoothing it down, turned to go again
                  into the kitchen, where she had been occupied, and, pausing an instant in front of
                  a small glass which hung between the windows, smoothed down the glossy hair which
                  floated in luxuriant masses over her face and neck, and, with a smile and blush at
                  her own vanity, so natural to her sex, she retired to an inner room to prepare
                  herself for a reception of the approaching visitors.
               "Why, Patsy!" exclaimed the elder of the twain, as her daughter left her side; but
                  Patsy either did not or would not hear
                  her mother, and she was left alone to receive those whose coming had already been
                  heralded by the sound of their horses' feet.
               The party consisted of nine horsemen; and at the head, mounted on a large,
                  powerfully-built and spirited charger, rode the leader—a young, beardless man,
                  who, to judge from his appearance, had scarcely more than passed his teens. He was
                  dressed in the blue and buff Continental uniform, as were his followers; but there
                  was so little difference in the attire of the party, it would have been difficult
                  to select the leader, but for the straps across his shoulder, denoting that he was
                  entitled to wear epaulettes, and the air of command which seemed to sit upon him
                  as naturally as if born to it. As the party approached the house, the old lady
                  went out to the fence which surrounded it, and, with a low courtesy, said:
               "Won't you halt, gentlemen, and have something to eat after your hot ride?"
               The leader of the party drew up his horse at this salutation, and, dismounting,
                  threw the reins to one of his companions. Approaching the hostess with a courtly
                  bow, he said:
               "This, I believe, is farmer Adams' house?"
               "Of course it is. Why, bless me!" and she peered earnestly into the face of the
                  speaker, with an expression of mingled doubt and pleasure; "sure you ain't little
                  Burr?"
               "As sure as you are Mrs. Adams," replied the party addressed, and he extended his
                  hand, which was warmly grasped by the delighted old lady, who, turning toward the
                  house, exclaimed, at the top of her shrill voice:
               "Patsy, come down here; it's little Burr. Why, Aaron, where did you come from? We
                  heard as you was killed there at Quebec, and Patsy has been crying ever so much
                  about you; come in, Aaron. But what on airth be you doing with all these men?"
               "I will tell you when we get inside, my good old friend," said Major Burr, for he
                  it was. "We have had a hot and dusty ride, and my men are terribly hungry and
                  thirsty, too."
               "I'll take care of them, I'll warrant you. Tell 'em to come in." And turning to
                  his men, he gave the sign to dismount, which was promptly and gladly obeyed, for
                  theirs, indeed, had been a hot and dusty ride, and fastening their horses to the
                  fence in front of the house, they awaited his further orders.
               "Why on airth don't you ask 'em in, Aaron?" exclaimed the old lady, whose ideas of
                  hospitality recognized no distinction in rank.
               Major Burr smiled, and turning to his followers, beckoned to one of them, who
                  approached, and with a military salute, stood awaiting his orders.
               "Keep one man on guard—take the rest in, and our kind landlady here will give you
                  something to eat and drink." Then
                  addressing Mrs. Adams, who had looked with wondering eyes upon the youthful hero,
                  he said, "Come, where's Patsy? I haven't had a kiss since I left her, eighteen
                  months ago. Ah, Patsy!" he exclaimed, as the young girl entered the room, smiling
                  and blushing, "how do you do?" and seizing one hand, he clasped her waist with the
                  other, and before she had time to resist, had she felt so inclined, which is
                  exceedingly doubtful, the young soldier had imprinted a hearty kiss upon a pair of
                  as pretty, and rosy lips as New Jersey could boast of at that time.
               "Why, Aaron, I am ashamed of you," said the blushing girl, struggling to release
                  herself from his embrace, "before all these men!"
               "You shall take it back, Patsy, as soon as we are alone," and he smiled wickedly.
                  "Let your mother take care of my men, and do you get something for me; I am hot,
                  tired, and hungry."
               "Your men, Aaron!" said Patsy, opening her large blue eyes with a stare of
                  astonishment, as she gazed upon the youthful speaker.
               "Yes, Patsy, my men. But come, what do you suppose brought me here?" and as he
                  spoke, a crimson blush illuminated the beautiful face of the young girl, for his
                  words recalled pleasant memories.
               Perhaps she thought he came wooing, for he had often told her how much he loved
                  her, and she, poor fool, had believed him. She had heard of his gallant exploits
                  with Arnold—had read, with flushed cheeks and beating heart, the high
                  commendations officially bestowed upon him, and as he stood there before her,
                  bronzed, weather-worn, yet bearing himself so gallantly, her heart beat high with
                  the hope which her lips dare not express.
               "I am sure I don't know, Aaron," she murmured. "I beg pardon," she interrupted, as
                  she remembered that he was now Major Burr, and the leader of the party.
               "No, Aaron always, and always the same Aaron," he said, raising her hand to his
                  lips, and imprinting a kiss on it, at the same time fastening upon her a glance
                  which brought the crimson tide again to her face. "I have come to relieve you of
                  the presence of—let me see, what is her name," and he drew from his pocket a
                  letter, which, having opened, he glanced over hastily. "Margaret Moncrieffe," he
                  continued, refolding the letter, and replacing it in his pocket. "I have come for
                  her by order from General Putnam."
               "Surely you are not going to take her prisoner?"
               "Oh, no," he replied, laughingly; "we don't make war upon, nor prisoners of,
                  women."
               "She isn't a woman, Aaron—she is only a child. But"——
               "Well, go on," he said, seeing that she hesitated.
               "No matter; judge for yourself. Come, take a seat in the parlor, and I will find something for you to
                  eat and drink."
               "But where is Miss Moncrieffe? I must hurry her off, for it is necessary I should
                  be in the city to-night."
               "She is somewhere about—I suppose under the trees, reading. She spends half her
                  time out of doors, reading, or firing at a mark, and I can tell you, Aaron, she is
                  a desperate shot."
               "She won't bring me down, Patsy," said the young major, gallantly, "for your image
                  will be between us;" and again the warm blood mantled her brow and cheeks, and her
                  eyes fairly glistened with happiness. "While you are getting some refreshments, I
                  will seek her out. Where do you suppose she is?"
               "In the small grove," and she pointed to the spot named, which was distant,
                  perhaps, two hundred feet from the house.
               Unbuckling the heavy horseman's sword, which had, during this brief conversation,
                  been dangling about his heels, he laid it on the table, and, with a graceful bow
                  and smile, left the room, and strode off toward the grove, which he well knew, for
                  with it were associated memories of a character so pleasant as not to be easily
                  effaced, for it was in that grove he had told his boyish love to the blushing,
                  happy girl whom he had just left, and had received an avowal of her own in
                  return.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT.
               AS he approached the well remembered spot, he observed the object of his search,
                  half reclining on the green sward, leaning against a tree, and deeply engaged in
                  the perusal of a book which she held in her hand.
               "Miss Moncrieffe," he said, approaching the young lady, who, pausing in the
                  perusal of her book, dropped it by her side, and fixed upon the intruder a gaze of
                  the most unbounded astonishment.
               "I suppose it is me you mean, for my name is Moncrieffe, though I don't know why
                  you call me Miss. Are you looking for me?"
               "I am ordered to seek Miss Moncrieffe, and convey her to New York," he replied,
                  with a graceful bow and a military salute.
               "Ordered to convey me to New York!" she exclaimed, throwing her book away; and
                  springing up, she stood before him, with flushed cheeks and flashing eyes; "and
                  who has presumed to order me to be conveyed to New York?"
               Major Burr smiled with a singular expression, while he gazed upon the young
                  Pythoness, as she stood glaring ing at
                  him; then gracefully removing his hat, he felt in his pocket for the letter under
                  which he was acting, and while thus engaged, she continued:
               "If you have come to take me a prisoner, I tell you plainly I won't
                  go, and you don't look like"——
               "Young lady, don't give yourself any unnecessary alarm," said the major, a little
                  haughtily, and as he spoke, he extended to her the letter for which he had been
                  searching in his pockets. "You are at perfect liberty to stay or go with me, as
                  you choose, but it is your father's wish"——
               "My father!" she exclaimed, hurriedly interrupting him, and grasping the letter
                  which the young officer held toward her. "Is he a prisoner?"
               "He is not, Miss Moncrieffe. How soon he may be, the fate of war can alone
                  determine."
               "Then I don't care for anything;" and as she spoke, she opened the letter which
                  the major had handed to her. A hasty glance showed her that it was a missive
                  addressed to General Putnam by her father, in which he implored his protection for
                  his daughter, until her father's circumstances should permit him to reclaim her;
                  for as he was at present situated, he could afford her neither shelter nor
                  protection, and the spot where she was then located might soon become the theatre
                  of active hostilities.
               "I beg your pardon, sir; I did not imagine such a state of things. General Putnam
                  is very kind, and I am truly grateful to him. I am at your command, sir."
               "Command me, Miss Moncrieffe," said Major Burr, with a smile, and one of those
                  graceful bows which in after years made him so irresistible.
               "Oh, for gracious sakes!" she exclaimed, half pettishly, and she half smiled, half
                  pouted, "don't call me Miss Moncrieffe. My name is Margaret. Please to call me
                  Margaret. I am not a young lady by some years. How old do you think I am?" she
                  inquired archly, bending upon him a searching glance, but dropping her eyes as
                  they met the flashing orbs of the young soldier fixed upon her with an expression
                  of intense admiration.
               She was tall—quite up to the standard fixed by that arbiter elegantiorum, Lord Chesterfield—with a form fully developed
                  in all the glory of budding womanhood; large, lustrous eyes, a complexion so
                  shaded between blonde and brunette, it was impossible to decide which
                  predominated; hair black as the raven's wing, and presenting an ensemble, which a painter or sculptor would have been
                  proud to embody as his ideal of perfection in womanhood and beauty.
               And there she stood before a young officer scarcely out of his teens, awaiting, as
                  did Helen before Paris, the judgment she had courted.
               Perhaps she was shocked at the boldness of her own question; perhaps she was
                  struck with the gallant bearing of the slender, graceful youth who stood before fore her; perhaps, a hundred things; but
                  certain it is, the rich blood mantled her cheeks, and added, if possible, new
                  lustre to charms almost perfect.
               "You are young enough to make me wish you were older, and old enough to make me
                  wish that I was older," was the gallant reply, and as it was uttered, a bright
                  smile mantled her beautiful face, and raising her eyes to his own, she gave him a
                  glance which sent the hot blood coursing through his veins with marvellous
                  rapidity. She had understood and appreciated the compliment so delicately
                  conveyed.
               "Well, we won't talk about that," she said, with a bright smile, at the same time
                  extending her hand, which was grasped with marvellous alacrity by the gallant
                  officer. "Now, how much time can you give me to prepare for my journey?"
               "Not very much of a journey, Miss Moncrieffe."
               "I think your memory is very treacherous," she interrupted, with an arch look.
               "Well, Miss Margaret, then; it is only a ride of about sixteen miles, and any of
                  our horses can go that distance in a couple of hours; but it would be rather hard
                  riding for a lady."
               "I'll wager my pistols against yours, that Selim will do it in less time than
                  that, and not draw a long breath."
               "Pistols—Selim—I don't understand what you are talking about," exclaimed the
                  major, really confounded by her words.
               "Why, don't you carry pistols? I thought all the rebel officers—I beg your
                  pardon," she interrupted, seeing that the countenance of the officer grew dark at
                  the word—"you must not mind what I say—I am a foolish girl, and even my father
                  says I am not more than half witted; I certainly did not mean to offend or
                  insult."
               "How about Selim?" said the major, his countenance again brightening as he met the
                  gaze of those lustrous eyes, at once forgetting the slur she had cast upon him and
                  the cause he had espoused.
               "Oh, he is my pet horse; father brought him from England for my use, and oh, he is
                  such a beauty!"
               "I wonder if he is as handsome as his mistress," mentally exclaimed the young
                  officer, as he gazed upon her glowing face; but he did not say so in as many
                  words, though he looked it, and Margaret understood his thoughts, for she blushed
                  and smiled at his expression.
               "But come, Mr."——and pausing, she looked inquiringly at him.
               "I am called Major Burr in New York. Here, Patsy calls me Aaron."
               "And are you the Aaron Burr who"——
               "There, Miss Moncrieffe—Margaret, I mean," said the major, laughing, "that will
                  do; I have not the time to receive or pay compliments now. I must be in New York
                  to-night, and, if you consent to accept
                  General Putnam's invitation, you must be there also."
               "I shall be ready—let me see—thirty minutes—will that do?" she said, after a
                  momentary pause; "a soldier's daughter is not troubled with an excess of baggage,
                  and what little I have, can be carried in my valise, strapped to my saddle."
               "General Putnam has a pillion prepared for you, and"——
               "General Putnam did not know Major Moncrieffe's daughter or he would not have
                  taken that trouble, for which, however, I shall gladly thank him. But come, Major
                  Burr, I am delaying you—I see you look impatient, and I won't detain you;" so
                  saying, she moved toward the house, walking side by side with the young officer,
                  who, as they conversed, gazed upon her with looks of undisguised admiration, and
                  listened to her remarks with an appearance of the deepest interest.
               "My father has been fortunate in providing a home for me in such an excellent
                  family," she said; "for it has been very lonesome here, and I don't know what I
                  should have done without Patsy. She is such a dear, good girl one can't help
                  loving her; don't you think so, Major Burr?" and she gave him another glance of
                  those large, liquid eyes, which brought the hot blood to his face, at which his
                  companion smiled archly; for she thought she read in that blush a secret. The
                  major, however, made no reply, and they walked on in silence.
               As they approached the fence at which the horses of the escort were fastened,
                  Margaret caught sight of the trooper on guard, and a singular expression crossed
                  her face, which was not, however, observed by the major. When within two or three
                  paces of him, she pointed to some object in another direction, and, as Major Burr
                  turned his head to observe it, she looked full in the face of the sentry, and a
                  glance full of meaning was exchanged between them unobserved. That glance, brief
                  as it was, spoke volumes, and had it been noticed by the young officer, might have
                  saved trouble, sorrow, and misery, and prevented the effusion of much precious
                  blood.
               "Now, then, major," she continued, as they entered the house, "I see Mrs. Adams
                  has been preparing refreshments for you, and while you are enjoying her
                  hospitality, I will pack up my small wardrobe and saddle Selim."
               "One of my men will get your horse ready, Miss Moncrieffe."
               "I would like to see one of your men attempt it," she said, with a merry laugh,
                  and, as she spoke, she cast a hurried, but searching glance around the group of
                  hardy troopers, who, with their heavy swords trailing on the floor, were standing
                  around the table on which Mrs. Adams had placed the homely refreshments, so
                  welcome to them after their hot and dusty ride. "He does not know anybody but his
                     mistress. I take entire charge of him
                  myself, and he follows me about like a dog."
               While thus speaking they entered the best room, honored by the appellation of
                  parlor, simply because it was not appropriated to culinary purposes; for the
                  furniture was of the most ordinary and homely description—rush-bottomed chairs,
                  with high, straight backs; a small, but very substantial mahogany table with two
                  leaves, stood between the windows, which looked out upon the road, and above it
                  was a small looking-glass in a plain gilt frame. Around the room were hung three
                  or four coarse engravings on Scriptural subjects; while the white floor, scrubbed
                  and cleaned until it was almost of the whiteness of snow, was destitute of a
                  carpet.
               On the table between the windows, Patsy had set forth the refreshments for the
                  young officer, and, as he approached, drawing with him one of the high-backed
                  chairs, he met her gaze fixed on him with an inquiring expression, as if she had
                  intended to ask: "What do you think of her?"
               If the major read her glance aright, he made no reply, but seated himself
                  abstractedly, and for a few moments leaned his head upon his hands.
               "Well, major—I mean Aaron," she hastily said, correcting herself, "you seem in low
                  spirits."
               "No, Patsy," he said, raising his head, and looking affectionately on her open,
                  ingenuous, and really hand some face, reading in that look the love which he felt
                  she bore him; "I am tired, and, besides, I was thinking."
               "What for your thoughts?" she asked, archly, as he commenced his repast.
               "I dare not dispose of them, even to you, Margaret—I beg pardon, Patsy!"
               "Already, Major Burr," said the young girl, half reproachfully, and he well knew
                  what she meant by that word, for his awkward mistake had implied a sudden intimacy
                  between the two thus strangely brought together, which justified such an
                  appellation.
               "On my word, no, Patsy," he replied, looking steadily in her face, and speaking
                  with such an earnest, sincere warmth of manner, as convinced her of his
                  truthfulness. "I was thinking of her, but not as I think of you."
               Patsy's countenance brightened as she listened to this denial of her suspicions,
                  for she believed every word he said, and drawing up a chair, she seated herself
                  near him.
               "When shall we see you again, Aaron?" she inquired.
               "I dare not say, Patsy, for I cannot surmise, myself. General Washington has gone
                  to Philadelphia to confer with Congress as to Howe's next movements; the fleet has
                  sailed from Virginia, and the impression, I believe, is, that New York will be the
                  next point of attack tack. We are making
                  all preparations to meet him, and ever since I have been in the city, I have been
                  on duty day and night, hastening the fortifications of the place. It was only by
                  chance I was selected by General Putnam to escort this young lady to his quarters,
                  as I happened to be in the house when her father's letter reached him."
               "Is she going to reside with General Putnam?" asked Patsy, with an appearance of
                  anxiety, which she could not conceal, and which was seemingly not justified by the
                  simple assertion just made.
               "Oh, yes; the general replied to her father, that he would cheerfully admit her as
                  a member of his family, until he could have an opportunity of restoring her to
                  him, or until he was in a position to receive her."
               For an instant Patsy sat mute, and with her face leaning on her hand, then raising
                  her eyes to those of her companion, she said, earnestly:
               "You won't think meanly of me, Aaron, if I tell you what I am thinking of?"
               "I never could think meanly of you, Patsy," was the reply, uttered quite as
                  earnestly as had been the question.
               "Then," and she lowered her tones, and approached her face near to his own, "I
                  think you had better watch her very closely."
               "Why—what do you mean?" inquired Major Burr, pausing between his mouthfuls. "She
                  is only a child."
               "Yes, but a forward and precocious child. She is shrewd, observing, and so
                  devotedly attached to the cause in which her father is engaged, I really think she
                  would scruple at nothing to forward its success."
               "I thank you, Patsy, for your warning," said the young major, smiling; "but I am
                  sure you are mistaken in your own thoughts," and he looked meaningly at her—so
                  meaningly, that the blood mounted to her face, and her eyes fell beneath his
                  ardent gaze.
               Perhaps she was. Perhaps there lurked in her bosom the apprehension that the
                  fascinations of the young and beautiful stranger, who would be thrown constantly
                  into his society, might win from her the heart she now trusted, and believed was
                  all her own. Perhaps there arose some latent fear, that once within the sphere of
                  her attractions, he would forget the truthful girl to whom he had so often offered
                  vows of enduring love. But if such was the case, no words passed her lips to
                  confirm it, and seeing that she had been misconstrued, she at once changed the
                  subject. In a few minutes, and before Major Burr had completed his repast, Miss
                  Moncrieffe entered the room, bearing in one hand a small russet-covered valise,
                  and in the other a pair of horseman's pistols, elegantly mounted, and which she
                  placed on the table before him, saying, as she did so:
               "There, major, are those not beauties?" and she looked at them almost
                  affectionately. "My dear father carried
                  them through two campaigns in India, and left them with me when he was ordered to
                  join his regiment on Staten Island, and I have made good use of them, I promise
                  you."
               Major Burr took one of them up, and after examining it with the eye of a
                  connoisseur, replied:
               "They seem to be very superior weapons; can you really use them?"
               "Ask Patsy," she said, laughingly, as she deposited her little valise on the floor
                  at her feet, and she turned to the party named, as if seeking her reply.
               "You will find very few who can use them with greater certainty than Miss
                  Moncrieffe," replied Patsy; and as she spoke an expression of pain crossed her
                  features, for she saw the gaze of Major Burr fastened upon the fair stranger with
                  evident admiration. She was dressed in a long green riding-habit, which, fitting
                  closely, set off her fine, full form to the greatest advantage, the long train
                  being drawn around in front, and tucked inside of the broad leather belt which
                  encircled her waist. Her hair had been drawn up, and was concealed by a cloth cap
                  of the same color as her dress, and ornamented with a black ostrich feather, and
                  which, being placed jauntily on one side of her head, gave an expression to her
                  really beautiful face, which might well command the admiration of the young
                  officer, who, as he looked, thought he had never seen anything half so
                  beautiful.
               Miss Moncrieffe noticed his look, and turning to Patsy, saw that the color had
                  entirely left her face, which, as she gazed on Major Burr, bore an expression of
                  absolute pain, and a flash of triumph rose to her eyes, but it passed away as
                  quickly as it had come.
               "Now, then, I will go and saddle Selim, and will be with you in a few moments, so
                  make your adieux, major," and she smiled archly, turning from him to Patsy, whose
                  color, now returned, covered face, and neck, and brow.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               PREPARING FOR THE JOURNEY.
               MARGARET left Major Burr and Patsy, and proceeded directly to the small shed,
                  scarcely worth the name even of stable, where Selim was housed, and as she passed
                  along the path which led to it, a singular expression was on her face. Perhaps it
                  was one of triumph—perhaps of mere exultation—perhaps—but no matter what; it was
                  an expression evidently called there by some extraordinary occasion, and it was
                  well that he who was most connected with it had not observed it.
               Selim, a noble, powerful bay horse, showing all the signs of blood and breeding,
                  turned his head as he heard his young mistress enter the stable, and fastening his
                  large eyes upon her with an expression almost human, neighed out his pleasure at
                  the sight of the one to whom he was so strongly attached. Selim was indeed worthy
                  of all her high praises, for in addition to the possession of great powers of
                  endurance and high speed, he seemed endowed with even more than a horse's
                  sagacity, and naturalists have placed that animal mal at the head of all others
                  for intelligence and instinct—an instinct amounting sometimes almost to
                  intellect.
               "Selim, my good friend," she said, approaching and patting his neck, "it's no
                  play-ride to-day; you are going among those who don't like anything that comes
                  from dear old England, and I am afraid you won't fare so well as you do even
                  here."
               Selim rubbed his nose against her shoulder, as she was untying the halter which
                  secured him in his stall, and testified his pleasure again at her presence by a
                  low whinny. Perhaps he understood what she said.
               "Yes, old friend," she continued, as she lifted down the cumbersome side-saddle of
                  those days, and placed it on his ready back, "you'll have a long and hot ride
                  to-day, and you won't have your mistress to take care of you when you get to the
                  end of your journey. No matter; be a good fellow, and I'll come and see you, if I
                  can't do any more."
               The saddle was adjusted, the girths tightened to the regular mark, and the heavy
                  military bridle, which formed a part of his trappings, placed in his mouth without
                  resistance, for Selim was glad to have the little exercise which the occasional
                  rides with his young mistress afforded.
               As she led him out toward the fence, where the troopers' horses were picketed, she
                  turned toward the house and looked through the open door of the kitchen, or rather
                  that portion of the house devoted to
                  kitchen uses; she perceived the troopers still standing around the table, and a
                  glance in the other direction showed that the same man was on sentry whom she had
                  first noticed, and between whom and herself such meaning glances had been
                  exchanged.
               Assured of this, she approached him boldly, and in authoritative tones commanded
                  him to make her horse fast also; as he advanced to obey her mandate, she turned
                  toward the house, so as to be able to perceive any one who might come out, and
                  said to him, but without looking at him, "what are you doing here, Hickey, and
                  wearing that uniform?"
               "Can't you guess, Miss Margaret?" he replied, in low tones, at the same time
                  taking hold of her horse's bridle, and leading him to a spot most remote from the
                  horses which he was guarding, followed, however, by Margaret, who continued in the
                  same strain:
               "Does any one suspect you, or your purpose?"
               "Not a soul. Governor Tryon knows all about it, but he's on board the Duchess of
                  Gordon."
               "Do you communicate with him?"
               "We used to do so before old Putnam took command, and without any great trouble;
                  but as soon as he came, he forbade all communication between the ships and the
                  shore, and the ships have now gone down outside the bay."
               "Can you send word to him now?"
               "Oh, yes, we manage that," he replied with a meaning ing smile, "only there's a
                  good deal more risk about it than there used to be. Where are you going,
                  miss?"
               "To New York, to live with General Putnam."
               "In his house?"
               "In his own house, with his family. Can you send word to Governor Tryon that I am
                  there?"
               "To be sure I can; and how glad he will be to hear it."
               "Tell him I am ready to do anything he desires, to serve my country and her cause.
                  You stupid fellow," she suddenly exclaimed, in a loud voice, as she saw a trooper
                  emerge from the house to relieve the party with whom she was talking, so that he
                  might enjoy the hospitality of Mrs. Adams, "don't you see how you have fastened
                  that horse?"
               "Where can I see you?" she added, in tones so low they only reached the ears for
                  whom they were intended.
               "I must manage that when I get to the city. Right opposite the general's quarters,
                  there is"——But the approach of the trooper checked the sentence, and he said in
                  his usual voice, "I will fasten him better, miss," and he commenced fumbling about
                  Selim's bridle, who, however, stood with his head turned, and eyes intently
                  fastened upon his mistress, as if to ask why she permitted any one to do that
                  which belonged only to her.
               "Of course you don't know me, Hickey." A look assured her that she was understood, for his relief
                  was now too near for further words.
               "That is a fine horse you have, miss," said the trooper—a tall, fresh-looking
                  young man, standing over six feet in his stockings, and he gazed admiringly on
                  Selim.
               "He is, indeed," she said, turning upon him her brilliant eyes, and trying to read
                  in that glance his character.
               Whatever she might have read, she could find in his frank, open, sun-burnt
                  countenance, no encouragement to hope she could bring him also within her power by
                  the fascination of her charms, and she continued:
               "He is a noble, brave beast, and I love him—don't I, Selim?" and, approaching him,
                  she patted his arched neck, as he stooped to receive her welcome caress.
               The young trooper gazed alternately at the maiden and at the horse, and upon each
                  with looks of admiration, for each were worthy of it, and, turning to Margaret,
                  said: "He looks to be high mettled."
               "He is as gentle as a lamb, and as playful as a kitten, and minds me like a dog,"
                  and as she spoke, she gave him another friendly pat, and turned to go into the
                  house, to await further directions of the young officer, in whose charge she was
                  to remain until placed in a proper position of security.
               She found Major Burr and Patsy as she had left them, still seated at the table,
                  deeply engaged in earnest nest conversation; the cheeks of the young girl were
                  flushed—her eyes beamed with a soft look, and there was every indication, at least
                  on her part, that they had arrived at a mutual and pleasant understanding, though
                  Margaret had too much tact to notice the change in her appearance; but,
                  approaching the table, she took from it her pistols which she had placed there on
                  her first entrance, and, opening the pans of the locks, examined them carefully,
                  to see if they were properly primed; then, drawing forth the ramrods, she tried
                  each barrel, to see if it was duly loaded.
               "You are exceedingly particular, Miss Moncrieffe," said Major Burr, as he looked
                  admiringly at the young and beautiful girl, thus cautiously providing against
                  accident or design.
               "I was always taught that a pistol would be useless unless loaded and primed," she
                  said, quietly; and having satisfied herself that all was right, and, lifting her
                  valise from the floor, she continued: "I will have this strapped on Selim, and
                  then I shall be ready for you, major," and she moved gracefully away, bearing in
                  one hand the loaded pistols, and in the other the valise.
               Major Burr, with a gallantry and a grace peculiar to himself, and in which few
                  could excel him, sprang forward to relieve her of the valise; but with a smile and
                  a courtesy, she declined his aid, and again he was alone with Patsy.
               
               "I don't like her, Aaron," said Patsy, turning to the major, as she followed with
                  her eyes the retreating form of the graceful girl.
               "I know that very well," he replied, with a quiet smile; "but there's no occasion
                  for alarm, Patsy." And Patsy shook her head meaningly; for she had good cause to
                  dread the fascinations of the beautiful and high-bred girl, as compared with her
                  own humble but more substantial charms.
               A few words of kindly greeting passed between Margaret and her hostess, as she
                  thanked her courteously and gracefully for her kindness during the period she had
                  been an inmate of her family. To Patsy she gave a warm embrace, and, as she
                  imprinted on her forehead a farewell kiss, she drew from her finger and slipped on
                  one of Patsy's, a beautiful turquoise ring.
               "Keep that, Patsy, in remembrance of me; and perhaps the time may come when I
                  shall be able to repay your kindness to me. Now, major, I will leave you to your
                  adieux," and, with a quiet smile, she withdrew, and proceeded toward the place
                  where Selim was picketed.
               The valise was strapped on behind the saddle; the pistols were carefully placed in
                  the holsters, and stepping lightly on the outstretched hand of the young trooper,
                  who had paid her the compliment of admiring her horse, she sprang to the saddle,
                  and, adjusting herself in the seat, turned her head toward the house and awaited
                  the approach of the leader, who was to escort her to her new home.
               A very few moments sufficed to pay his adieux to Mrs. Adams and Patsy, and,
                  vaulting in the saddle with a light spring, the party was put in motion.
               Major Burr and Margaret brought up the rear, the troopers riding about a hundred
                  feet ahead of the main body, to keep a look-out ahead, and in this order they left
                  the house, and were soon hidden from sight by the dense forests through which
                  their road lay.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               THE ROYALISTS IN THE CITY.
               BUT leaving the major and his fair and fascinating companion, let us turn to the
                  city of New York, where events were daily transpiring which involved seriously the
                  deepest interests of the Colonies, and which, if carried to consummation, might
                  have terminated most disastrously for their cause and liberties.
               The head-quarters of the commander-in-chief were at that period located at
                  Richmond Hill, now far below the centre of our city's limits, though then so far
                  removed from its resident population as to be deemed at a great distance from the
                  city proper. The house selected for the head-quarters of General Washington was
                  large and spacious, affording abundant room for his family and suite, and was in
                  after years purchased by Major Burr, and occupied by him as his residence, the
                  hill and pond which lay beneath being recognized as "Burr's Hill" and "Burr's
                  Pond."
               It was situated on an eminence commanding a view of the Hudson River and bay, for
                  at that time there were no houses or other objects in the vicinity to obstruct the
                  vision. The mansion was surrounded by noble trees; a carefully cultivated lawn
                  stretching on one side as far as the road, which ran past the house, and a
                  beautiful garden, in a high state of cultivation, skirting it on either side.
               Across the road, and distant perhaps two hundred yards southward, stood a small
                  two-story farm-house, occupied at that time as a tavern, by a well-known Tory,
                  named Corbie. It was the resort of all parties—Whig and Tory—for Whig and Tory
                  alike, in those days, would frequent any place where refreshments could be
                  procured, for there were very few allowed in the city at that time. There was one
                  at the lower end of the city, known by the sign of the "Highlander," and standing
                  at what is now the corner of Broadway and Beaver street, directly opposite the
                  then headquarters of General Putnam, already named; but the house kept by Corbie,
                  being furthest removed from the city proper, and hence less under the surveillance
                  of the officers, received much the larger share of custom; and it was surmised, as
                  it was afterward well established, that within its walls was hatched many a
                  conspiracy against our country and its liberties. The life-guard of the
                  commander-in-chief, when not on actual duty at Richmond Hill, found this a very
                  convenient place of resort, and many a Continental dollar found its way into the
                  rapacious pocket of Corbie, in exchange for the Jamaica rum and other bibables
                  which he kept on sale. Here Whig and Tory met, as it were, on neutral ground, and here were freely
                  discussed the affairs of the two nations—no, of the parent and child—which then
                  convulsed the world. Many, too, were the brawls, by day and by night, which the
                  house had witnessed, and which were only suppressed by the approach of the guard,
                  who were ordered thither when the discovery was made that some quarrel was going
                  on. General Putnam, however, had put Corbie under heavy bonds, and thenceforward
                  the house was much more peaceable, though none the less suspected.
               It was on the night before the departure of Major Burr, with his escort, to bring
                  to New York the daughter of the British soldier, who had been confided by him to
                  the care and courtesy of the rough, blunt, but brave and honorable soldier,
                  General Putnam—a charge cheerfully assumed, and which was most faithfully kept.
                  The sky was overcast with heavy clouds, portending a thunder shower, or storm of
                  long duration, and the inmates of the house gathered in the bar-room, or rather
                  the room devoted to the reception of such guests as came there only to smoke their
                  pipes or quaff their liquor.
               There were several soldiers from the fortifications and various breastworks, which
                  extended up from the Battery as far as Richmond Hill; there were some of the
                  life-guardsmen, and there was a fair sprinkling of Tory residents from the
                  vicinity; there, too, conspicuous among the motly throng, were three of the
                  soldiers belonging to the Smallwood's Maryland battalion, noticeable especially
                  for their showy scarlet uniform, trimmed with buff, and at that time they were
                  almost the only corps in the city, out of the thousands by whom it was garrisoned,
                  who could boast of a uniformity of dress or accoutrements.
               There were, however, two or three persons present deserving more than a passing
                  notice; and entitled justly to the first consideration, was the landlord, Corbie,
                  whose name has been handed down to posterity as connected with the most infamous
                  plot that ever was conceived by an enemy claiming to conduct an honorable warfare.
                  He was a small, rosy-cheeked man, with a round face, a keen blue eye, and a nose
                  which evidenced his familiar acquaintance with the contents of his larder and
                  cellar. Although in the humble position of landlord of a wayside house, he was by
                  nature and intellect fitted for much higher uses, and the choice of this man, by
                  Governor Tryon, as the chief agent in a plot so desperate in its conception, and
                  which, if successful, would have been productive of the most disastrous results,
                  displayed on his part a just conception and a correct appreciation of character,
                  for the man was really as shrewd and cunning as a fox; never taken by surprise
                  under any circumstances, cool, brave, and determined, ready for any emergency, and
                  so devoted a royalist, that he would have lost his right hand sooner than deny his
                  allegiance to his sovereign. His keen,
                  penetrating eye was ever wandering over his guests, and intuitively he seemed to
                  read the character of each. There were the restless, nervous, homesick light
                  horsemen from Connecticut, who, having volunteered cheerfully for the defence of
                  the city, refused to perform any duty except such as might be discharged with the
                  aid of their horses, and who were subsequently dismissed by the
                  commander-in-chief, with the stinging remark, that "he did not care how soon they
                  were discharged, since they declined to stand guard, work in the batteries, or
                  perform any of a soldier's duty."
               There were the gallant Jerseymen, commanded by the intrepid Morgan, who played
                  such a conspicuous part in our country's history in after days, dressed in
                  homespun, linsey-woolsey—in fact, anything which would cover them—and armed with
                  their unerring rifles, with which they ever committed such fearful havoc as to
                  render their name a terror to the foe, and their appearance a signal for flight to
                  any equal numbers.
               The South Carolinians, the Pennsylvanians, the hardy sons of New Hampshire, all
                  were represented on that evening. Conspicuous among all, however, from the
                  honorable position filled by them, and the confidence reposed in them, were the
                  "life-guardsmen," appointed to protect the person of the commander-in-chief; tall,
                  stalwart men, who had been well and severely tried, but who had never been found
                  wanting; men who had earned by bravery and incorruptible fidelity, the glorious
                  ous privilege of protecting the life and person of the deliverer of his
                  country.
               Foremost among those, and especially noticeable from his commanding height and
                  erect bearing, stood Thomas Hickey, a deserter from the Royalist army, but one who
                  had so often proved himself brave and true, that he had been promoted to the high
                  and honorable position of a "life-guardsman."
               "Come, boys, another round; I'll stand treat for the company this time, and I
                  don't want anybody to drink to my toast who don't choose," said a short, thickset
                  man, with a red face; a nose much redder than his face, and remarkable for his
                  keen, light, restless blue eye, which was ever wandering around with an expression
                  half-searching, half-suspicious.
               He was an Englishman by birth, an Englishman in feeling, and thoroughly English in
                  his attire. He was dressed in a drab fustian coat, knee-breeches of the same
                  color, made of corduroy, and wore heavy top boots. It was Gilbert Forbes, the
                  gunsmith, who had his shop on Broadway, near what is now called Maiden Lane, and
                  being a perfect master of his trade, his shop was frequented by the better class
                  of customers, without distinction of party or country.
               "Come boys, one more round," and he turned to the landlord, Corbie, with whom he
                  exchanged a significant glance, and the willing host placed upon his table glasses for the company, and proceeded to
                  fill them according to the tastes and wishes of his guests.
               "None of your infernal Tory toasts, Mister Forbes," said a tall, strapping young
                  countryman, one of the Connecticut light horse, who had so promptly volunteered
                  for the defence of the city, when rumors of an expected attack from the British
                  reached their State, but who when required to mount guard, work on the batteries,
                  or perform other military duties, declined, on the score that they were horsemen,
                  and ought not be required to do duty of foot soldiers; "I won't stand any of
                  them," he continued, straightening himself up, and glancing around to see how many
                  friends he could count upon in case of trouble arising from his interference.
               Forbes laid down his glass, which he held in his hand, and gazed on the speaker
                  with looks of anything but friendly regard: "Look here, my young friend, you ain't
                  master yet, and mayhap you won't be so soon as you expect; so it's best to keep a
                  civil tongue in your head, or you may get it broke for your pains."
               "Shut your own mouth, you infernal Tory," exclaimed one of Smallwood's men,
                  advancing to the side of his Yankee friend; for though there was the most
                  desperate sectional feeling existing among the motley array of Continental troops
                  then occupying the city, on an occasion like the present, when trouble appeared to
                  be at hand, North and South were forgotten, and the gallant southerner was as
                  ready to fight for his Yankee comrade, as he would have been to fight with him, on
                  the smallest provocation.
               "Well, I'm in my own house, any how, and I will do as I choose, and I'd like to
                  see the man who will interfere with me. I'll offer a toast, and you can drink it,
                  or not," said Corbie, filling a glass for himself, and without waiting for any
                  reply, he exclaimed; "Here's to the King and his cause, God bless"——
               He had not time to finish his sentence, for Gray, the Connecticut farmer, sprung
                  forward, and dashing the contents of his glass in the landlord's face, seized him
                  by the neck, and fairly choked the words down his throat.
               Forbes and the other Tories sprang to the assistance of their friend. Weapons
                  which hitherto had been concealed, were now drawn forth, and a general and
                  desperate affray seemed inevitable. At this juncture, the door of the tap-room was
                  thrown open, and a tall, commanding-looking man, with a sergeant's chevron on his
                  arm, and bearing a musket, entered, and advanced between the contending
                  parties:
               "Silence!" he exclaimed, in a voice of thunder, as he saw the position of affairs;
                  "silence, and disperse, or I'll put every man in the guard-house."
               "And who the devil are you?" exclaimed Forbes, glaring at the intruder.
               "I am the sergeant of the guard, and if you don't cease from brawling, I'll march
                  every man to the guardhouse house.
                  Corbie!" and he turned to the landlord, who, released from the vice-like grasp of
                  the young giant, was adjusting his rumpled shirt and cravat, "I shall report your
                  house as disorderly, and have it shut up at once, if I hear any more of this
                  again."
               "I don't keep a disorderly house, Sergeant Drake, and you know it. I've got a
                  right to speak my mind in my own house, I'm thinking."
               "You shan't drink such an infernal Tory toast as that in my presence, if it was
                  ten times your house," exclaimed Gray, the young Connecticut soldier, whose blood
                  was now at fever heat.
               "Come, disperse, and let's have no more words about it," said the sergeant. "You,
                  Forbes, are always mixed up with some brawl, or doing something worse. Go home,
                  and don't compel me to make you."
               "I'd like to see you do it," said the gunsmith, sulkily.
               "That is easily done," replied the sergeant, turning to the door, and advancing,
                  as if about to give the order for the guard to advance; but he was interrupted by
                  Corbie, who passed rapidly from behind the bar, and laid his hand upon the
                  soldier's arm, gently.
               "Please don't, Sergeant Drake; it's not my fault, and it will only hurt me, you
                  know, without doing you any good," and he winked so significantly, that the color
                  came to the sergeant's face, for the truth was, he had taken many a sly glass with
                  Corbie, for which he was never required to pay.
               "Well," he said, half hesitatingly, "I will pass this over, but——Ah, Hickey!" he
                  said, for the first time perceiving the life-guardsman, who had managed thus far
                  to keep out of the sergeant's sight, "I was looking for you, but did not expect to
                  find you here. I have left orders for you to report to Major Burr, at
                  headquarters, to-morrow at six o'clock."
               Hickey's countenance fell as these words were uttered, and he turned from the
                  speaker to Forbes and Corbie, as if to ask them what it meant. The sergeant was at
                  that moment engaged in looking around among the inmates of the room, and did not
                  perceive this movement; if he had, he would have noticed that glances full of
                  meaning were exchanged between the trio.
               "Very well, sir," replied the guardsman, touching his cap, for he was by these
                  words under orders, and without a reply, except to bid the assemblage good night,
                  he left the room, and proceeded to his barracks near the "Richmond Hill
                  House."
               "Sergeant, you had better take something; it won't do you any harm, and it's a
                  nasty, wet night," said Corbie, going behind the bar, and while speaking he poured
                  out a tumbler two-thirds full of Jamaica rum, which he handed to the sergeant, who
                  tossed it off with a relish that showed he was well acquainted with the flavor of
                  that liquor.
               "Now, then, good night," he said, smacking his lips, and trailing his musket, he
                  started for the door; but before he
                  reached it, turned and said: "Now, boys, no more brawling nor quarrelling."
               "Oh, no, of course not," chorused the party, Whigs and Tories, glad to have
                  escaped thus easily from a night's sojourn in the guard-house.
               "Come, boys, empty your glasses without the toast," said Corbie, as the door
                  closed on the retreating form of the sergeant. "It's getting on to nine o'clock,
                  and you've all got to be at quarters by that time, according to orders. Forbes,"
                  he said, turning to the gunsmith, "it's a miserable night. Do you stay here with
                  me; you couldn't get through the lines in time, I'm sure."
               "Thank'ee, Corbie, I will," replied Forbes, and he drained his glass, an example
                  which was followed by the party, who strolled out, one by one, until at length the
                  landlord and the gunsmith were alone.
               "That was a narrow escape, Forbes," said the burly landlord, as he proceeded to
                  close his house, locking and barring the doors and windows, a precaution rendered
                  very necessary, for often parties of straggling Whigs, who had been caught outside
                  of the lines after hours, would force an entrance into his house, and compel him
                  to entertain them until morning, when they would depart, leaving the host to
                  collect his reckoning as he could.
               "The boat will be along before a great while, and if"——
               "Never mind. Walls have ears; so keep mum, and wait for the signal. Matthews sent
                  word that a dispatch for him was coming up to-night from Governor Tryon, and there
                  ought to be some money with it."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE ATTACK AND ITS RESULTS.
               "YOU have seen hard service for your years, major," said Miss Moncrieffe, as they
                  rode along, and the young girl looked at the beardless soldier by her side, with a
                  patronizing air which would have become a matron of forty.
               The major smiled as he interpreted her look, and retorted: "I think you, for your
                  years, have a decided advantage over me."
               "Ah! but I've never seen real service," she replied, archly.
               "Would you be afraid?" he asked, earnestly.
               "I am a soldier's daughter," she said, commencing with a smile, and closing with
                  something of hauteur in her manner.
               "Suppose the Cow-boys should attack us," he said willing to test her, and scanning
                  her face as he spoke.
               "I think I could make sure of one, perhaps two," and she pointed with the handle
                  of her riding-whip to the holsters which contained her pistols. "If I should miss
                  them both, I should trust to Providence and Selim's heels."
               "I hope your courage won't be tested; but in case we should be attacked, please to
                  observe what I say, for you are under my charge—you must fall to the rear; and if
                  there are too many for us, you must make Selim show his heels, and ride directly
                  back to Mrs. Adams."
               "I'll have two shots at them any how, before I do start. But what would Patsy say
                  if I was to leave you, and what message should I give her?" and she peered in his
                  face with an expression which brought the blood to his cheeks.
               "Never mind Patsy," he replied, resuming his composure, "I would rather speak to
                  you than of her, a thousand times."
               Again she fixed her searching eyes on him; but this time he not only met her
                  glance unabashed, but returned it with such interest, it was now her turn to
                  blush—for there was an intensity of admiration in his look which she could not
                  fail to interpret. "I don't believe you, major," she said, at the same time
                  touching Selim slightly with her whip, causing him to spring forward some yards
                  ahead of her escort, who, however, quickly joined her, and for a few moments they
                  rode in silence. During these few moments, both were revolving in their minds the
                  words and looks of the past minute.
               Margaret saw in the young officer, who had already earned such fame, one whom any
                  woman might be proud to win. He was
                  young, handsome, distinguished, and held already a high post of honor and
                  confidence, and her heart acknowledged his vast superiority in everything
                  pertaining to a gentleman and soldier, over any she had ever met. On his part, he
                  saw a lovely, dashing, fearless girl, very beautiful, very fascinating, polished
                  and refined in her manners, and well fitted by birth, manner, and education, young
                  as she was, for any position. The contrast between the high-born girl by his side,
                  and the truthful, but uneducated Patsy, was so great, Margaret could not but gain
                  by the comparison. He thought what a wife she would make, and he determined, in
                  forgetfulness of all he had said to Patsy, and heedless of the pangs which his
                  faithlessness would cause her, to make the effort to win this paragon.
               Strange to say, neither of them for a moment gave thought to the gulf which
                  separated them. She, the daughter of a British officer—he, her father's enemy by
                  choice and principle. It was a case of decided and most desperate love at first
                  sight; and each, unknown to the other, had succumbed to the influence of the
                  little blind God who rules the world.
               "I was not jesting, Miss Moncrieffe," said the major after this brief silence,
                  which led to such a momentous result, "when I spoke about the Cow-boys," and he
                  spoke with deep earnestness.
               "Nor was I, when I spoke about my pistols and Selim," she said, smilingly. "You
                  don't know what a girl can do until she is compelled to. I have smelled gunpowder
                  before," she added, with a bright, merry laugh. "I practise with my pistols every
                  day, and would shoot even with you for a wager."
               "And I would not with you," said the major; "you would be sure to win in anything
                  you undertake, and it is never allowed to bet on a certainty," and he bent on her
                  an admiring and searching glance.
               "Perhaps you would let me win," she said, archly, returning his glance with one so
                  full of expression, it brought the blood to his face.
               "I could not help myself, I am sure," he added, with deep earnestness; "you always
                  win when you choose."
               "Not always, I am afraid," she said, with a half sigh, and she glanced at him
                  timidly; and as she caught his eye fixed intently on her, she averted her head, so
                  that he could not discover the blush which crimsoned her cheeks, called there by
                  her own words.
               "With me you would be sure; for, although I am a soldier, I would surrender to you
                  without an effort at resistance."
               "Would you, indeed?" she said, turning to him, a bright sunny smile illumining her
                  face, which, animated as it was, presented as lovely a picture as a lover or
                  painter ever gazed upon.
               "Upon my honor, Miss Margaret, as a soldier and a gentleman, I would."
               
               "How am I to take you, major?" she added, half archly, though her countenance, as
                  she spoke, wore an expression of earnestness, very little in unison with her light
                  and trifling manner.
               "In any manner you choose, only take me," he said, with a glance of the most
                  profound admiration, and he fixed upon her a look which spoke the intensity of the
                  feelings which animated him, for he was fairly trembling with emotion.
               "There's my hand on that bargain," and the same bright smile which had conquered
                  him, lighted up her beautiful face. "Henceforth you are my prisoner."
               "Forever, and gladly;" and the delicate hand was seized by the impassioned and
                  conquered soldier. "Yours ever, yours only, only keep me." And thus, in these few
                  moments, and in such few words, were settled the destinies of two just entering
                  upon life.
               Major Burr, who had won imperishable renown by his coolness and bravery, on every
                  occasion, when either had been called forth; who had passed waist-deep through the
                  snow to attack the frowning fortress of Quebec; who, when the chance shot fired by
                  a sailor, carried death and desolation into the ranks of the Americans; when a
                  hasty retreat was ordered by the one who should have led them to a renewed attack
                  with the certainty of success, refused to leave his beloved commander who lay cold
                  in death, but staggered through the snow, bearing his precious burden den on his
                  youthful shoulders; he, the intrepid soldier, surrendered at the first summons of
                  the enemy whom few have ever successfully resisted—Love.
               Every thought, feeling, and emotion of which he was capable had, within the
                  acquaintance of a few short hours, been surrendered to the fascination and beauty
                  of one who well knew how to use both, and who, equally with himself, was
                  conquered, though she was not so ready to surrender. And she, accustomed as she
                  was to flattery and adulation—conscious of her own powers—she too yielded to the
                  common enemy, even while she had claimed the victory and her prisoner, though she
                  almost dreaded to acknowledge it.
               Neither had spoken one word of love; but as between each other words were
                  needless; for under the guise of playfulness there lurked a depth and strength of
                  feeling of which each was conscious, and each felt that the other loved.
               Poor Patsy! little did she dream how her destiny had been affected in the few
                  hours which had intervened between the arrival and departure of him to whom every
                  feeling of an earnest, honest, truthful woman's heart had been given—but not
                  unsought.
               When Major Burr released the tiny hand held out to him in consummation of his
                  surrender, he looked long and earnestly in the glowing face of his lovely
                  companion, and in the calm but truthful gaze with which she met his glance, he
                  read their mutual happiness ness; and not
                  another word was spoken by either from that moment on the subject nearest and
                  dearest to both their hearts.
               "Now, Margaret," said the major (he felt familiar), "I was very earnest when I
                  spoke of those rascally Cow-boys. If they have received information of my intended
                  journey hither—and I should not be surprised if they had, for our city is full of
                  villainous Tories and spies—they will surely attempt to intercept us."
               "And for what earthly object, major?" asked Margaret, looking intently at him.
               "To hang me; and as for you"——
               "I understand," she said, anticipating his sentence, and biting her lips till the
                  blood almost started from them. "But I will keep one of these," and she pointed to
                  her pistols, "for my own use—the other they shall have."
               Major Burr gazed upon the beautiful speaker with looks of the most intense
                  affection, and wondered inwardly how one so young, so frail, so delicately brought
                  up, could be so fearless; but her words and actions only endeared her more to
                  him.
               "Now, Margaret, remember my orders," and he emphasized the word. "I am your
                  commander in this affair—you are mine in all else. Should those wretches attack
                  us, do you remain in the rear, and if worsted, you must fly for your life."
               "And leave you, Aaron?" she said, tenderly, and a tear moistened her eye. "I
                  won't;" and the heroic spirit which animated her, spoke through her eyes, from
                  which the tear departed almost as soon as it had come, at the thought of danger to
                  him she loved. "Yes," she repeated, as Major Burr actually stared at her in
                  astonishment at hearing such words, "I won't—commander or no commander—I won't
                  leave you."
               "Disobedience of orders is punishable with death, Margaret," he said,
                  smilingly.
               "And desertion, too," she added, looking archly at him; "would you subject me to
                  that?"
               "Then you enlist with me?"
               Whatever answer she might have made, was cut short by the sudden halting of the
                  two troopers ahead, and this movement having been caught by the quick eye of the
                  young soldier, he left Margeret's side and galloped to the front.
               "What is it?" he inquired of Graham, one of the two who had ridden on as the
                  advance guard.
               "I think I saw some one moving in the woods yonder," and he pointed to a spot
                  where the roads diverged, one leading to Ramapo, and the other to Orange.
               "I will ride on and see," said the major; and as he spoke he drew the reins
                  tighter, and was in the act of putting spurs to his horse, when a flash and a
                     report, heard and seen almost
                  simultaneously, proceeded from the spot toward which the trooper had pointed.
               By this time the other men had galloped up to the spot where their leader stood,
                  and awaited his orders.
               "I am badly hurt," said Graham; and as he spoke, he leaned on one side and slid
                  from his horse, falling heavily to the ground.
               'You are hit, major," said Hickey, addressing his commander, as he saw the blood
                  streaming down his buff breeches.
               "Not much, I think. It won't do to give them a chance for another shot. Draw your
                  pistols, men, and forward!" and with one glance to the rear to see if Margaret had
                  obeyed his directions, he galloped forward, pistol in hand.
               As they neared the woods whence the firing had proceeded, another volley was
                  discharged, and Hickey with a muttered curse, exclaimed:
               "Curse 'em, I've got it too; go in boys, kill the cursed cowards!" And the party
                  dashed to the edge of the woods; from which there rushed, in a compact body, a
                  dozen or fourteen rough looking ruffians, dressed in every variety of costume, and
                  each armed with a musket or fowling-piece.
               As the small party of Continentals caught the sight, they discharged their pistols
                  with such effect that five of them dropped to the earth; then throwing away their
                  pistols, they drew their swords, and charged.
               But the Cow-boys—for it was a party of these scourges—anticipating this movement,
                  met them with a volley from their muskets and fowling-pieces, which, fortunately,
                  did no damage except to maim one of the horses, so as to render him useless; but
                  his rider dismounting, advanced as rapidly as he could on foot, sword in hand. For
                  a few moments, a hand-to-hand fight occurred on the edge of the wood, the troopers
                  using their heavy cavalry swords, and their assailants clubbing their muskets and
                  fowling-pieces. Four of the Cow-boys were either sabred, or so injured as to be
                  unable to do any further mischief, and the remainder finding themselves unequally
                  matched, took refuge in the woods, where they knew the mounted men could not, or
                  would not follow them.
               Major Burr's men were intent upon putting to death all of their assailants who
                  still lived, but he forbade this inhumanity, and ordering his men to dismount,
                  directed them to examine into their condition.
               Three were stone dead; four desperately wounded, either by pistol-ball or sabre,
                  and the remainder, though slightly injured, were still unable to escape. "I hate
                  leaving these infernal scoundrels here, they may do more mischief; but I must,"
                  said Major Burr, addressing his men, who stood about him awaiting his further
                  orders.
               As he spoke those words, a shot from the rear attracted his attention, and
                  wheeling his horse quick as lightning, he
                  plunged the spurs into his sides, and dashed forward. A loud scream from the
                  quarter whence the shot had proceeded, sent every drop of blood to his heart; and
                  with every pore reeking with perspiration, drawn forth by the agony caused by that
                  sound, he dashed on; and as he turned the curve in the road, which had thus far
                  hidden Margaret from his sight, he saw her struggling in the arms of one of the
                  ruffians, two of whom had made a short detour of the woods, and had come upon her
                  suddenly as she sat on her horse, listening anxiously to the sounds of the muskets
                  and pistols, and the clashing of the sabres, as they struck the assailants'
                  weapons.
               Quick as thought, she levelled a pistol, which she had drawn from its holster at
                  the moment of the first firing, and as one of them neared her, she discharged its
                  contents full in his face. The ball struck him in the throat, and he fell to the
                  earth with a groan and a curse. Before she could detach the other weapon from its
                  holster, the second ruffian was upon her, and seizing her by the arm essayed to
                  drag her from the saddle.
               It was then, for the first time, she uttered any sound, and the wild scream of
                  terror which issued from her lips, had been heard by her newly-won lover. Before
                  he could reach the spot where this most unequal conflict was going on, Margaret,
                  who had resisted with her utmost strength, aided by Selim, who reared, and
                  pranced, and wheeled in his efforts to free his bridle from the hold of the
                  ruffian who was assailing his young mistress—had been dragged from her seat, and
                  the fellow was bearing her, struggling and screaming, toward the woods.
               But Major Burr had seen enough to arouse all his energy, and to inspire him with
                  the courage of desperation, and spurring his horse forward, he caught the ruffian
                  by the cravat, and being too near to use the blade of his sword, dashed the hilt
                  into his eyes with a force that drove them from their sockets, and he fell
                  senseless to the ground, his arm still clasping the waist of the now fainting
                  girl. Springing from his horse, Major Burr, forgetting, in the intensity of his
                  passion, that a helpless foe lay before him, brought down his sabre with a force
                  which sent it crashing through his skull, and he rolled over, dead.
               Releasing the almost inanimate form of Margaret, whose clothes were covered with
                  the blood and brains of the dead ruffian, he strove, by every endearing epithet
                  and caress, to recall her to consciousness. In a few moments his men came
                  galloping to the spot, and seeing their commander seated on the greensward,
                  holding the senseless form of their charge in his arms, their rage was
                  unbounded.
               "Your flask, any of you," he said, as they approached, and three or four rough
                  apologies for flasks were handed him, by as many willing hands.
               
               As he was unwilling that any one should be present when Margaret returned to
                  consciousness, he directed his men to scour the road, as well in the rear as
                  forward, and he would attend to the lady, an order which was most cheerfully
                  obeyed; for every man was anxious to have another chance at these lawless
                  ruffians, who were the terror only of the innocent and defenceless, and who never
                  made an attack under equal circumstances.
               A little rum poured down Margaret's throat, brought her to partial consciousness,
                  and opening her eyes languidly, she met the gaze of Major Burr fixed on her with
                  an intensity of anguish which went to her very soul, and feeble as she yet was
                  from affright, she smiled on him, and gently pressed the hand which held her
                  own.
               "I am not hurt at all, Aaron," she said, in feeble tones, after another interval
                  of a few moments. "I will be myself directly; but that ruffian did frighten
                  me."
               "No wonder, Margaret, no wonder. But are you sure you are not hurt? Who fired that
                  shot?"
               "Look in the road, Aaron. I told you I was sure of one; but before I could draw
                  the other pistol, that man seized my arm. Bless you, Aaron, dear Aaron!" she
                  added, as she still reclined in his arms, looking up in his face with an
                  expression of gratitude and affection; and Major Burr, unable to control himself
                  as he heard those words, and met that look, bent down and imprinted a kiss upon
                  her not unwilling lips; and thus was sealed their untold pledge of mutual
                  love.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE ROYALISTS PLOTTING.
               WE left Corbie and Forbes closing the house of the former after the departure of
                  the guests, and this done, Corbie filled two glasses, and drawing a chair to the
                  table on which Forbes had already planted himself, said:
               "I wonder what, in the name of all that's bad, they want of Hickey?"
               "Oh, don't borrow trouble, Corbie; it will come fast enough if this is found out.
                  I tell you it can't be anything that concerns us, or Drake never would have been
                  so open about it. No, no; so far so well. I wonder what's the next move?"
               "Perhaps we shall know to-night. Do you think the colonel will come up in such a
                  storm?"
               "Storm—why it's just the thing for him. The boat can't be seen ten feet off shore,
                  and I don't believe the sentinels care overmuch for being out in the rain. Not a
                  bit of it; they are hid away in some of the groves along the shore, and the rain
                  and wind together would drown any ordinary sound; besides, the boat's oars are
                  always muffled."
               "How many have we now, Forbes?" said Corbie, lowering his voice almost to a
                  whisper.
               "Besides our own people, not over three score; and I don't think they'll be worth
                  the money I've paid for them, except Hickey. He's worth the whole of 'em put
                  together."
               "As how, Forbes?"
               "Why, he sees and hears everything that goes on yonder," and he pointed with his
                  thumb over his shoulder toward the location of the commander-in-chief's
                  head-quarters; "and he ain't afraid to tell it, either."
               "We want some more of them fellows," continued Corbie, sipping his liquor, and
                  laying down the glass with an air of satisfaction.
               "We'll have them yet, never fear. Five guineas down, and the two hundred acres, is
                  rather too much for men who haven't seen a hard dollar for three months, and ain't
                  likely to see one for as many to come. Blanchard is on the lookout, too, and he'll
                  pick out the right men, I'll warrant you."
               "I'd like to get hold of that Gray, the cursed rebel," said Corbie, placing his
                  hand to his throat in evident remembrance of the gripe he had felt there a few
                  moments before, "I'd pay him off, or my name's not Corbie;" and as if aroused to
                  some desperate resolve by the recollection, he swallowed the remaining contents of
                  his glass at one gulp, an example which was followed by his companion, who, placing his glass on the table, with an
                  emphatic gesture, added:
               "I want to see the whole troop of infernal rebels strung up at once. I'd dance
                  over their graves with pleasure. Hark!"
               A low rap at the side door of the room in which they were seated was distinctly
                  heard, and when thrice repeated, Corbie went to the door, and without parley or
                  hesitation, opened it, saying, as he did so, "Walk in—all clear," a summons which
                  was answered by the entrance of a short, but well-knit man of some forty summers,
                  dressed in dark blue sailor clothes from head to foot, and with a countenance so
                  swarthy, he might, without offence, have been taken for a mulatto, or more
                  probably some sun-burnt sea-faring man, which last impression was fully warranted
                  by his attire.
               It was Colonel Fanning, who, by dint of hard service in India, under its broiling
                  sun, had won his colonelcy and the liver complaint, and was now sent out to this
                  country to win fresher laurels or a soldier's grave. His regiment was stationed on
                  Staten Island, but he had been selected by Governor Tryon, then on board the
                  "Duchess of Gordon," the flag-ship of the British fleet then lying opposite the
                  island, as the most competent officer to whom he might intrust the weighty matters
                  then in hand between himself and the royalists in the city, in furtherance of the
                  measures which; if successful, it was conceived would put a sudden end to the war,
                  and crush out the rebellion.
               "Good evening, colonel," said the landlord, touching his forehead with a military
                  salute, which, as well as a similar movement on the part of Forbes, he
                  acknowledged by a slight bow, and a smile which showed, in striking contrast to
                  his swarthy face, his pearly teeth.
               "It is a shocking night for some people, but fine weather for his majesty."
               The door was quickly locked and barred, and the colonel, motioning Forbes to a
                  chair, threw himself into one himself.
               "You are wet through, colonel; let me give you something to drive the cold out of
                  you—I have some glorious old south side, you know," said Corbie. "May I venture to
                  offer you a suit of dry clothes," he added, respectfully, almost
                  reverentially.
               "No, thank you, for I must return immediately." said the colonel, with a wave of
                  his hand; "but I won't refuse your south side, for I know it is good;" and the
                  loyal landlord, taking one of the candles from the table, went behind the bar, and
                  opening a secret trap which led to the cellar, descended to procure the
                  highly-praised wine for the drenched and tired officer.
               "Well, Forbes, how goes it?" he inquired, as he drew from his breast pocket a
                  packet of papers, the outer envelope of which was nearly destroyed by the rain
                  which had been pouring down in torrents for so long a time. "This for the excellent mayor, and"—as
                  he spoke, he drew forth a smaller letter directed to Forbes himself—"this for
                  you."
               Forbes, with a low bow, took the extended letter with an air of unbounded respect,
                  and, without waiting for excuses, tore it open hastily and devoured its contents
                  eagerly.
               It ran thus:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "ON BOARD DUCHESS OF GORDON, "June 3d, 1776.
                              
                              "MY TRUSTY FRIEND:
                           
                           "I am exceeding pleased at the success which has attended your efforts
                              and those of the friends to the cause of His Most Gracious Majesty in
                              the City of New York, and which I shall take pleasure in communicating
                              to Lord Germaine, and I have no doubt he will embrace the earliest
                              opportunity of expressing his satisfaction with your conduct. The
                              package herewith must reach the honorable mayor without delay. It is
                              essential that we should secure the services of some party near the
                              person of General Putnam, now that General Washington is in
                              Philadelphia; and we hereby intrust you with full power to render such
                              service to our glorious cause. Colonel Fanning will hand you the one
                              hundred and fifty guineas, for which you called in your last, and for
                              which you will receipt.
                           "Mr. Corbie's services are duly appreciated; but I wish you to caution
                              him against permitting the assemblage of too many of our friends at
                              his house, as it may excite suspicion and defeat our plans, which God
                              forbid, for the sake of our most gracious King.
                           
                              "WILLIAM TRYON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               By the time Forbes had finished the perusal of this letter, which had occupied him
                  some minutes, for Governor Tryon was a notoriously bad penman and Forbes a worse
                  scholar, Corbie had returned from the cellar, bearing in one hand a bottle covered
                  with dust, and in the other the light, which had enabled him to drag it from its
                  hiding-place.
               "That's the same seal, colonel," he said, laying both on the table, and, producing
                  a cork-screw, he drew the cork, and placing a glass before his guest, turned to
                  Forbes, who still held Governor Tryon's letter in his hand.
               "That's partly for you, Corbie—read it," said Forbes, his face glowing with
                  pleasure, and he thrust the letter into the hands of the burly landlord, who
                  commenced its perusal with a very wry face, for he was even more illiterate than
                  Forbes; and while he was thus engaged, Colonel Fanning had managed to get down
                  three or four glasses of the generous wine which had been placed before him, and
                  which was, indeed, worthy of all the praise Corbie had bestowed on it.
               "God bless his majesty and prosper his cause," said Corbie, earnestly, for he was
                  as thoroughly loyal as any king could wish. "Halloa!" he exclaimed, "what's that?"
                  as the sound of a body falling heavily was heard in the next room. "Who, in the
                  devil's name's there?" and, snatching a light, he started for the door, but was withheld by a forcible grasp from
                  Colonel Fanning, who had seized his arm and held him back.
               "Hist—wait a moment," he said, "I must be off first. Here, Forbes," and he handed
                  the gunsmith a small bag; "his excellency requested me to hand that to you. Have
                  you nothing to send?"
               "Nothing for his excellency, to-day, colonel; everything is going on well," and,
                  holding up the bag which contained the promised guineas, which was to pay for
                  treason and desertion, he said: "With this we can do anything. There's something
                  in that sound," and he shook them till they jingled again and again, as if the
                  very sound conferred happiness, "which these half-starved and poorly-paid rebels
                  can't resist. Say to his excellency, if you please, that we shall not relax any
                  effort to carry out every operation he may devise, nor hesitate at any cost to
                  prove our devotion to his most glorious majesty."
               "Now, then, I'm off. Corbie, my fine fellow, that's glorious wine," said the
                  colonel, rising from the table.
               "Finish it, colonel—finish it; you have a long pull and a stormy night before you.
                  God bless his majesty and give him many more faithful servants like your honor,"
                  said Corbie, enthusiastically, for he was, indeed, a most devoted loyalist.
               "Amen," said the colonel, draining glass after glass, until he had emptied the
                  bottle; "and now, then, good-night all. I don't know when I shall return; but when
                  I do, I hope to hear good news from our trusty friends here;" and seizing his cap,
                  the gallant colonel strode forth into the storm, and the door was again securely
                  barred and bolted by the loyal land-lord.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               A NEW RECRUIT.
               "NOW, then," said Corbie, seizing one of the candles which stood on the table, and
                  proceeding toward the door whence the sound issued which had disturbed them a few
                  moments before, "let us see what this means;" and followed by Forbes, he opened
                  the door which led into the adjoining apartment.
               "Come, who's here?" exclaimed Corbie, holding the light over his head, so that its
                  beams illumined the whole apartment.
               "Hang it, don't stop to ask questions," said Forbes, advancing to the centre of
                  the room, and peering about with his keen, grey eyes. "Ah! there he is," and
                  advancing toward a large mahogany table which stood between the windows, under a
                  large mahogany-framed mirror, he raised one of the leaves, and, sure enough,
                     there he was.
               
               "Come out of that, my fine fellow, and let us see who you are," and, as he spoke,
                  he put his hand down, and seizing a huge booted leg, which half projected from the
                  table, drew forth a stalwart man, dressed in the uniform of the Life-guards, who,
                  as soon as his body was free from the table, sprang to his feet, and stood gazing
                  about him in amazement.
               "Well, Barnes," said Corbie, who knew the man well, for he was one of his regular
                  customers, "what on earth took you in there?" and, as he spoke, he turned toward
                  Forbes with an anxious glance of inquiry, which almost said, " I wonder if he has
                  overheard us; if he has, I'll cut his throat."
               "Fact is, Corbie," said the soldier, now released from the grasp of the gunsmith,
                  and stepping backward with an unsteady motion, "I drank a leetle too much, and I
                  thought I would hide away, and sleep it off afore tattoo. Has it beat yet?"
               "More than an hour ago," said Corbie, who saw, at a glance, the advantage he had
                  over his man, and who was so familiar with all phases of drunkenness, he knew
                  there was no pretence in his case. "Everybody's gone long ago. You're in for
                  thirty-six, sure 
                     as as
                     as
                   your name's Barnes."
               "Sure enough," replied the soldier, and he rubbed his shoulders, as if he already
                  felt the lashes on his quivering flesh. "Well, what can't be cured must be
                  endured, and I suppose I must take 'em, as many better men have done before
                  me."
               "Do you know the sergeant was here, about an hour ago, looking for you?" asked
                  Corbie, desirous of trying the effect upon Barnes of such a statement.
               
               "Sure?" asked the soldier, now thoroughly sobered, and conscious of the position
                  in which he had placed himself.
               "Sure as your name's Barnes."
               "You didn't tell him I was here, did you, Corbie?" he asked, half anxiously, half
                  sullenly.
               "I told him you had been here, but I thought you had gone back to the barracks,
                  and so he left."
               "Thank you for that, anyhow. Thirty-six! I swow that's too bad for a small offence
                  like this. Why don't they hang a fellow at once, and have it all done with."
               "Yes, and well laid on at that," added Corbie, pursuing his advantage. "You know
                  Green is no baby when he gets the cat in his hand, and I rather guess he was made
                  drummer especially for that."
               "Well, I might as well make up my mind to it. I see it's got to come; but it's
                  cursed hard anyhow. I wonder if your side treats men so."
               "Not a bit of it. What! tie a man up and whip him, in the presence of his
                  comrades, for a little spree! Why, it would raise a mutiny at once, and half the
                  men would desert. Oh, no—they don't do things in that way on our side, and that's
                  the reason our men never desert. Plenty to eat and drink, and sure pay, and sure
                  promotion when it is earned. A day or two in the guard-house, and low diet, is
                  quite cure enough for a small drunk but the idea of whipping a grown man like you.
                  I'm blessed if I wouldn't kill the fellow that dared to put the lash on me!"
               "I'm cursed if any lash touches my back, anyhow, now mark my words. I know just
                  what I shall get when I go back to barracks; but when they whip me, it will do
                  Green good. I'll clear out, and take my chances outside. If they catch me, they
                  can but shoot me, and that will be better than being flogged."
               "Why, man, you can't leave the island. You are crazy; every inch of the shore is
                  guarded, and a boat can't even land without permission."
               "Sure enough, and I ain't got no boat. Come, Corbie, give us some more rum, and
                  I'll go in and give myself up."
               "I can tell you an easier way than that," said Forbes, with earnestness, and he
                  looked meaningly in Barnes' face.
               "As how, Gilbert?" queried the now thoroughly sobered guardsman, for he knew the
                  gunsmith very well.
               "Perhaps you know what these are," and the gunsmith held before the eyes of the
                  guardsman a handful of guineas, which he rattled one against the other.
               "I have seen such things before," replied Barnes, his eyes fairly glistening at
                  the sight of so much money—more than he had ever seen at once in his
                  life-time.
               "Five of them for bounty, sure pay, plenty to eat, and no flogging for a little spree; and besides
                  that, two hundred acres of land, when the war is over, for every man, one hundred,
                  if he's married, for his wife, and fifty for every child. Eh, what do you think of
                  that? and you haven't seen ten silver dollars since you 'listed."
               "Give me them guineas," exclaimed the guardsman, stretching out his hand, for
                  while his manhood shrunk at the idea of being publicly flogged, his sense of honor
                  was not so strong as to prevent him from desiring to escape that degrading
                  punishment by the more disgraceful one of desertion and treason. "I'd serve the
                  devil sooner than be stripped and flogged before the whole corps. So hand over,
                  and I'm your man."
               "Softly, Barnes; you are almost too willing," replied Forbes, who, though now sure
                  of his man, was determined to test him thoroughly. "You know, if you 'list with
                  us, and are caught"——
               "Why, they'll hang or shoot me; anything you choose but a flogging. I never was
                  flogged, and I never will be, so help me"——
               "You will be, if you go to the barracks to-night or to-morrow."
               "I don't mean to go there, boys. I'll take to the woods, and stand my chances, if
                  you don't want me; but I'm d—d if I'm going to be flogged because I drank a glass
                  too much."
               "Well, then, Barnes, if you will join us I'm ready with your bounty," and he
                  jingled the guineas, which sounded temptingly in the ear of the poorly paid
                  guardsman, now thoroughly aroused to any deed, no matter how dark or desperate, so
                  he escaped the dreaded flogging. "We don't want you to desert, but if you choose
                  you can join us, and I'll guarantee you shan't be flogged."
               "I'll join the devil, I tell you, sooner than be flogged," and to add emphasis to
                  his words, he brought his huge fist on the table with a force which made the room
                  ring again.
               "Then take the oath I shall give you, and the guineas are yours."
               "Out with it," said Barnes, doggedly. "I'm ready for anything but a flogging."
               Being thus assured, Corbie, at Forbes' request, produced a Bible, and Barnes was
                  sworn by the most solemn and terrible oath, not to reveal any secret intrusted to
                  him, on pain of having his tongue cut from his mouth, but to aid those whom he had
                  joined in any manner which might be demanded of him, at all times and under any
                  circumstances, and without regard to consequences.
               "Now, then, Barnes, you belong to us," said Forbes. "Here is your bounty," and he
                  placed the price of his treason in his hands. "You are under full pay from
                  to-night. Ten shillings a week, you know, and when this cursed rebellion is crushed, two hundred acres
                  of land are yours, anywhere you choose to select."
               "But how about that flogging; I must go back to the barracks," said Barnes,
                  putting the price of his treason in his pocket.
               "Go, stand out in the rain a few minutes, till you get wet through," said Forbes,
                  moving toward the barroom; and at a sign from him, Corbie opened the door through
                  which the colonel had passed, and Barnes stepped out, as he was commanded.
               A very few moments sufficed to drench him thoroughly, and he reëntered the room,
                  dripping like a water dog.
               "Now, then, what next?" he asked, as he stood there, the water fairly running from
                  him.
               "A glass of rum is next, I think," said Corbie, laughing, as he went behind the
                  bar, and pouring a tumbler two-thirds full of rum, handed it to the new recruit,
                  who tossed it off with evident relish, and without making a single wry face.
               "Now, then, for the rest."
               "Just take me by the collar, and drag me to the guard-house," said Corbie. "Say,
                  that after everybody had left, you saw me go out and start down toward the water;
                  that you followed me, and heard a boat approach the shore, and that when you
                  challenged, it went back again, and you arrested me."
               "And what are you going to say?" queried the guardsman, who liked this part of the
                  arrangement well enough, but could not discover how it would benefit him, or save
                  him from the much-dreaded flogging.
               "Leave that to me; nothing to compromise either of us; let me alone for that."
               Barnes did as he was bid. and appeared before the officer of the guard, on duty,
                  with his prisoner, narrating the adventure precisely as he had been
                  instructed.
               "I thought it very strange, Barnes, that you did not come at tattoo, but you have
                  done well. Now, Corbie, what is this?" asked the lieutenant on duty for the
                  night.
               "Only a little bit of a smuggle," he said, doffing his cap as soon as Barnes
                  loosed his hold on his collar. "You see, I have been expecting a lot of prime
                  Jamaica, ever so long, from—no matter where—but as I knew that your friends
                  wouldn't let it come, without taking toll, I made arrangements to shove it; and if
                  it hadn't been for that 'ere spooney," and he looked at Barnes as if he would
                  annihilate him, "I'd a had it long ago; but he must go and poke his nose in what
                  don't concern him. It was real prime, too, I tell you, lieutenant," added Corbie,
                  with a very slight wink; for he knew his man, who was one of his best, though sly,
                  customers, and was fond of the "prime article" as any man in the corps.
               
               "Well, Corbie, you had better go home, and try and get your Jamaica like an honest
                  man. It won't do you any harm to try a little honest dealing, by the way of
                  variety. Barnes," he said, turning to the guardsman—whose delight at this
                  unexpected termination of his anticipated troubles could scarcely be
                  concealed—"you acted perfectly right; but, I guess Corbie was not doing anything
                  worse than that."
               "On my honor, no, lieutenant," said the wily landlord, who saw that his wink had
                  been rightly interpreted, laying his brawny hand over the place where the heart
                  was supposed to be, and as he spoke, he made a low bow.
               "You can go, then," said the officer, condescendingly.
               "I told you so, you blasted fool," said Corbie, turning angrily to Barnes, but
                  with a glance which seemed to say, "I told you I would save you from a flogging,
                  and I have done it."
               "Well, you did," replied the traitor, glad enough at his relief from a flogging,
                  to forget the means by which he had escaped from well-merited punishment.
               "All right," said Corbie, barring and locking the door, as he reëntered his house,
                  and was greeted by the impatient Forbes, with the emphatic inquiry: "Well!"
               "There's another good one. We've got him as fast as oaths and fears can secure
                  him; and a few more like him, down there at old Putnam's, would make short work of
                  the whole matter. Who the devil can I get at down there? The colonel says his
                  excellency wants some one there, and he must be found."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               MARGARET MONCRIEFFE AT HOME.
               "YOU are wounded," said Margaret, rising from the arms of Major Burr, as she heard
                  the sound of approaching horses' feet, and perceived the blood-stain on his
                  leg.
               "Oh, it's nothing—a mere scratch! it does not even pain me; and if it did, I
                  should forget the pain in my happiness at seeing you unharmed."
               "Thanks to you, major," she said, smiling sweetly. "But come, let us proceed; who
                  knows what we may meet next? One moment," and she advanced toward Selim, who had
                  remained standing still from the moment Margaret had been dragged from her seat.
                  As she moved toward him, she was obliged to pass the body of the man who had met
                  his death at her hands, as it lay weltering in a pool of blood; and as she did so,
                  she stopped for an instant, and, gazing at the frightful wound made in his throat
                  by her ball, turned with a triumphant expression to the major, and said: "It
                  wasn't a bad shot for a frightened girl, was it, major?"
               "It was good for a brave man, Margaret. You are worthy of a better fate than
                  I"——
               "There, now—please don't," she interrupted; "you have said enough for to-day, and
                  I have said much more than I ought. Let me load my pistol," she added, stopping to
                  pick up the weapon which she had dropped when she had fired it, and, feeling in
                  the pocket of her riding-dress, she drew forth a small flask of powder. The pistol
                  was carefully loaded and primed, and, having placed it in the holster, she turned
                  to the major, who had watched her movements with looks of affectionate interest,
                  and said: "Come, help me to mount—I am ready."
               While she had been thus engaged, the escort had rejoined their leader, and stood
                  around watching the brave and beautiful girl with admiring eyes, commenting upon
                  her courage and beauty in whispered tones.
               "I am sure I am gratefully obliged to all of you," she said, looking around the
                  group and smiling sweetly; "I did the best I could," and she pointed to the corpse
                  lying in the road.
               The men looked at her and each other in amazement, for until now, they knew not
                  the part she had taken in the action, or, rather, skirmish; and from that moment
                  they looked upon her almost with veneration.
               She was assisted into the saddle by Major Burr. One of the two wounded men having
                  been placed before, on a horse, in front of one of his comrades, and Hickey declaring himself perfectly able to do
                  more fighting for such a brave little woman, mounting his own horse, the party
                  moved on in the same order as they had started, leaving the dead to take care of
                  the dead, and the wounded to get along as they best could.
               Paulus Hook was reached without any further adventure, and without a recurrence on
                  the part of Major Burr or Margaret to the topic which most closely interested
                  both; for her request was command to the young and enamored soldier.
               Only once, and that was as he was handing her on board the bateau which was to
                  convey the horses and their riders across the river, did he allude to the subject
                  of their new-born love, and only then because he thought he perceived a shade of
                  sadness on the beautiful face of his companion.
               "You do not repent having said what you have, Margaret?" he asked, tenderly,
                  looking in her lustrous eyes, whose expression was now wonderfully softened.
               "Oh, no, no!" she replied, with deep earnestness, "I am very, very happy, and
                  you"——
               "I cannot describe my feelings. I can only from my heart say I thank and bless
                  you, my own dear, best, and only beloved."
               It was nearly dark when Major Burr, having dismissed his escort at the New York
                  side of the ferry, conducted Margaret into the presence of General Putnam and his
                  family, who had just risen from their evening meal, and she was received by the
                  ladies with an honest warmth and cordiality, which actually brought tears to her
                  eyes; and with the impulse so natural to her, and which she could not control, she
                  threw herself into a high-backed chair, and gave vent to her overcharged feelings
                  in a burst of hearty tears.
               "Come, come, child!" said the blunt old general, approaching and taking one of her
                  hands within his own, while he placed the other on her head, "don't fret about
                  it—it is the fortune of war. Your father I know to be a gallant gentleman and an
                  honorable soldier, and you may feel just as much at home in my house as if you
                  were with him. Mayn't she, ma?" and he turned to his wife, who had marked the
                  advent of this new member of her family with decided interest, for there was that
                  in her youth, beauty, and isolated situation, which commended her to that sympathy
                  which woman never withholds from any one in distress.
               "Be sure, what a question to ask. Come, child, wipe your eyes, you won't feel
                  lonesome in a day or two. My daughters here will find something for you to do, and
                  that will keep you from thinking. Why, Major Burr, what on earth is the matter
                  with your leg? See, girls, it's all bloody."
               "What's all this, Burr?" exclaimed the general, now for the first time noticing
                  that which had attracted his wife's
                  attention, and he pointed to the blood-stained clothes of his handsome young aid,
                  to whom he had already grown strongly attached.
               "Only a little skirmish with those rascally Cow-boys," was the reply of Major
                  Burr, who, in the excitement of the journey, had quite forgotten his wound.
                  "Graham and Hickey were slightly hurt; but we beat them off, and left five dead,
                  and as for the rest, I am afraid they stand a poor chance for a very long life.
                  But, general," and his eye kindled as he turned to Margaret, who was trying to dry
                  her tears, an operation in which she was materially assisted by the general's
                  daughters, who, kneeling on either side of her, with true girlish sympathy, were
                  speaking low words of hope and comfort, "you ought to have seen Miss Moncrieffe
                  then. She brought down one of the villains with a ball through his throat, as
                  neatly and coolly as you could have done it yourself."
               "She!" echoed mother and daughters, while the general turned to Margaret and gazed
                  upon her for an instant with an expression of admiration, for he did honor to true
                  courage whether in man or woman. "She shot a man, major?"
               "Yes; and if she could have reached her other pistol in time, she would have shot
                  two of them."
               "How did it happen? Where? When?" the trio of females exclaimed in a breath.
               "Some other time I will tell you; or, perhaps, you had better ask Miss Moncrieffe
                  herself."
               "Miss Moncrieffe, can only say," said Margaret, rising, and wiping the tears from
                  her eyes, "that she owes her life, and more than her life, to the promptness and
                  courage of Major Burr, and he knows how grateful she is."
               These latter words were accompanied with a look which spoke volumes to the young
                  soldier, who turning away to conceal the color which her words, and her
                  expression, as she uttered them, had called to his face, asked if Doctor Haxton
                  was in his room, and without waiting for a reply, left the apartment, in search of
                  the surgeon to dress his wound, which was as he said, truly, quite slight.
               In three days from her first introduction into the family of the worthy old
                  general, Margaret Moncrieffe had won all hearts, by her vivacity, her endless
                  sallies of wit and humor, her unfailing store of anecdote, incident and adventure,
                  her reckless, free, frank, open-hearted speech and manners, combined with an
                  artlessness and simplicity, which rendered her perfectly irresistible.
               General Putnam had been christened "grandpa," to which he submitted with a bad
                  grace, at first, but eventually, with a smile which he could not conceal. Mrs.
                  Putnam was "my lady," and the girls were "cousins Bell, and Mattie."
               
               She managed to have her own way in everything. As for spinning, the daily
                  occupation of the family, she had never learned it, and she was too old now (at
                  fifteen) to begin. She could embroider, and she would, if "grandpa" should ask her
                  very politely, sew on buttons. She would sit in the room with the family for
                  hours, with her embroidery frame on her lap, and keep them in a continued strain
                  of laughter, by her wit, her anecdotes, or her actions; in the latter of which she
                  was a perfect romping child, when unrestrained by the forms of society.
               She had coaxed the general to let her give Selim an airing every day, "as the poor
                  brute would suffer," she pleaded, pathetically, "if he did not have his regular
                  exercise;" and then by the way of added inducement, she promised he should have
                  the occasional use of him, if he would pledge his word he should not be shot in
                  action.
               There was no resisting her! She fairly carried all hearts by storm; and already,
                  as rumors of an invasion began to fly thick and fast, they were thinking of the
                  possibility of losing her charming society, which had almost changed the character
                  of their home.
               Favored by the permission granted by General Putnam, she rode out on the fourth
                  day of her arrival in the city, in company with Major Burr, who had been ordered
                  to make a tour of inspection of the works in progress in various parts of the
                  island; and as there was, on that occasion, no ban upon the topic of the ride from
                  Elizabethtown, it was renewed by both, and with an earnestness and freedom, which
                  showed how deeply the hearts of both were engrossed by their mutual love.
               Margaret appeared to be deeply interested in the operations of the men on the
                  breastworks, which they visited in the course of their ride; and once or twice,
                  she drew upon her a searching glance from her companion, by the singularity and
                  pertinency of the questions she asked. She saw everything, noted everything; and
                  on their return, she locked herself in the apartment occupied by her, and amused
                  herself by noting down carefully, and accurately, in detail, all she had seen and
                  heard during the ride; except such portion of the conversation as was directly
                  connected with herself. These were recorded in ineffaceable characters on the
                  tablet of her heart.
               As aid to the commander-in-chief (for General Washington had not, as yet, returned
                  from Philadelphia, and General Putnam was in full command), Major Burr was, of
                  course, a personage of high importance, and his movements were watched with close
                  scrutiny, by all the officers in the city. His companion, whose first appearance
                  had that day been made in public, had been noticed by many, on this first ride,
                  and particularly by Colonel Shee, commanding one of the four Pennsylvania
                  battalions, who embraced the first opportunity to inquire of Major Burr, who she was, and where, on
                  earth, he had discovered such a lovely girl.
               "A Miss Moncrieffe," was the reply; "daughter of a British officer, now camped on
                  Staten Island; and for the present, a member of General Putnam's family."
               "Burr, bring her to our ball to-morrow night; she will be the brightest star
                  there. Do, that's a good fellow! You know we're awfully short of pretty girls, and
                  the whole corps will send you a vote of thanks."
               "I am sure I shall be proud to escort her," said the young aid, laughing, "but
                  some of your dashing youngsters will be losing their hearts. She is as witty and
                  polished as she is beautiful, but she is an awful little Royalist."
               "Royalist be hanged! She's a woman, and a pretty one, at that; so bring her along,
                  and if she insists upon it, she shall drink the king's health; we are not fighting
                  with women. The general's daughters are coming; two of our fellows engaged them a
                  week ago. So do you bring your little Tory; will you, Burr?"
               "If she will come, surely, and with pleasure; but I warn you, she will speak just
                  as she thinks."
               "Let her speak what she chooses, so long as she looks so sweetly on me, as she
                  did——Faith, no, I won't finish that sentence. Burr, you are a lucky dog; I wish I
                  was old Put's aid for a little while."
               "Well, give me your commission, colonel," said the major, laughing, "and you may
                  have mine, and my position with it."
               "What, and your chances with the handsome little Tory?"
               "Of course! I want more active service," replied the major, for he could not say
                  anything else without committing himself; though, as he spoke, his heart smote him
                  for allowing Margaret to be spoken of in such a trifling manner, and he turned
                  away to conceal the flush which had been called to his cheeks by this
                  conversation.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               AN OLD FRIEND.
               THE threatened invasion of the British, by land and sea, concerning which rumors
                  had been flying thick and fast for many weeks, had driven from the city most of
                  the best families, and, in consequence, the wives of the generals and other
                  officers quartered there were constrained to rely on each other for society and
                  such amusement as they could invent, for the time passed heavily on them.
               Among the troops quartered in the city, were four battalions of troops from
                  Pennsylvania, commanded by Colonels Shee, McGaw, St. Clair, and Wayne, and
                  officered by scions of the most wealthy and aristocratic families of the
                  commonwealth. They had joined the army from motives of the purest patriotism, and
                  without a thought as to any merely personal benefit, save such as might accrue to
                  the whole country from a recognition of its independence from Great Britain.
               While, therefore, ever ready for any duty, and equally ready to meet any foe, they
                  felt that the time could be passed much more pleasantly than by watching and
                  waiting for an enemy. They had accordingly arranged a series of balls and
                  entertainments, which were given alternately at the head-quarters of the different
                  colonels, who were all men of high position and large wealth, and every lady in
                  the city was anxious to be invited on those occasions.
               The generals, anxious to propitiate the troops from every section, made it a point
                  of honor to attend each ball or party with their families, and these weekly
                  reunions were looked upon by all as a most agreeable means of dispelling the
                     ennui attendant upon garrison life.
               It was to the ball given by Colonel Shee to which Major Burr had been requested to
                  invite Margaret, an invitation which she accepted most joyfully, for when she
                  heard the general's daughters talking about it, and saw them arranging the little
                  details of their modest toilettes for the occasion, she had wished that she might
                  not be left alone. The invitation, therefore, from him whom her heart acknowledged
                  as its master, was joyfully accepted, and her pleasure was heightened by the fact
                  that he was to be her escort.
               Colonel Shee, at that period, occupied a large mansion on Broadway, near the spot
                  where the Astor House now stands. The lower part of the building, on this
                  occasion, was devoted to dancing, the second floor to card-playing and the
                  punch-room—and without an attempt at going into details, it is sufficient to say
                  that everything which lavish expenditure could procure cure, in view of the means at hand, for luxuries
                  were rather rare, was provided to contribute to the pleasure of the guests.
               The entrance of Margaret, leaning on the arm of her handsome escort, who was
                  dressed in full uniform, was greeted with a buzz of admiration from the gentlemen
                  (for Colonel Shee had boasted so much of her beauty, every one was anxious to test
                  his judgment by his own standard) and by looks of jealousy from the ladies, for
                  she was incomparably the most lovely woman or girl in the room.
               Robed in simple white, without one single ornament, her glossy hair flowing in
                  graceful ringlets over her snowy neck and shoulders, her countenance faultlessly
                  beautiful, animated as well by the scene as by the presence of him to whom she had
                  given her first affections, she might well challenge the admiration which she
                  commanded.
               Colonel Shee was among the first to notice her entrance, and apologizing to a
                  group of ladies with whom he had been conversing, he hurried toward the youthful
                  couple on whom all eyes were directed. The formality of an introduction was soon
                  accomplished, and offering his arm, the colonel gallantly said:
               "Major, you must allow me to rob you of your fair charge for a short time, so many
                  are anxious to know her, and I claim, as host, the privilege of presenting her.
                  Allow me the honor, Miss Moncrieffe," and he bowed low as she took his proffered
                  arm, not, however, without casting a glance at Major Burr, whose meaning he
                  rightly interpreted, and young as he was, he was too shrewd to say or do anything
                  by which either might be compromised.
               Colonel Shee led his lovely guest toward a bevy of officers who had, from her
                  first entrance, eyed her with looks of deep admiration, and still retaining her
                  arm within his own, introduced her to them severally. For each she had some
                  pleasant or witty remark, the piquancy of which was enhanced by her manner, and at
                  once she was completely surrounded, each one striving to outvie the other in the
                  fulsomeness of the compliments he wished to pay. For each she had some happy
                  reply, and if her beauty had failed to conquer, her wit accomplished what that had
                  left undone.
               "I declare, colonel," she said, pointing to a far corner of the room, "I am sure I
                  see a familiar face."
               "Indeed, and where?" inquired the colonel, turning to the quarter toward which her
                  eyes were directed. "How on earth can any face here be familiar to you?"
               "That tall gentleman in plain clothes," she replied, pointing to the person of
                  whom she spoke.
               "Ah, yes—that is Captain Blanchard, one of your people, by the way. He is a
                  prisoner on parole; but he is a noble, high-spirited gentleman, and a great favorite with all of us, for we are on
                  the most friendly terms."
               "Do bring him here, colonel," she said, eagerly. "Perhaps he has seen my father
                  lately."
               "Scarcely lately, Miss Moncrieffe," replied the colonel, with a faint smile, "he
                  has been with us over three months. But if you desire, I will bring him to
                  you."
               "No, I will go to him. Oh, how pleasant it is to see a familiar face, even where
                  all else are so kind," she added, with a smile so bright and winning, the gallant
                  colonel forgot the first portion of her sentence.
               Making way through the crowd of admirers who thronged around her, Margaret,
                  leaning upon the colonel's arm, was escorted to that portion of the apartment
                  where stood the gentleman who had attracted her attention, and whose face she
                  claimed as familiar to her.
               He was reclining moodily against one of the folding doors, surveying the gay scene
                  with emotions of anything but pleasure, for though he had been treated with the
                  most boundless courtesy and hospitality since his capture, he longed to be among
                  friends with whom he had closer sympathies than those who surrounded him. At the
                  approach of Colonel Shee, he raised himself from his leaning position, and, as his
                  eye caught sight of his companion, his countenance lighted up in an instant, and a
                  new life seemed to be infused in him.
               Advancing with outstretched hand he exclaimed, "You here, Miss Moncrieffe?"
               "Yes, captain, as you see," she added, gaily, dropping the colonel's arm, and
                  grasping his extended hand "and you are here too, I see."
               "Even so," he said, as a shade of sadness crossed his features; "the chances of
                  war have placed me here, but I won't blame them, since I am permitted to see the
                  loveliest"——
               "There, don't finish that sentence, captain; Colonel Shee, here, can say much
                  prettier things than that, I am sure. Can't you, colonel?" and she looked archly
                  at the colonel.
               "I can feel them, if I cannot say them, Miss Moncrieffe," gallantly replied the
                  colonel, with a bow.
               "Now, colonel, please to give me a proof of your sincerity, by letting me have my
                  own way for—let me see—just five minutes. Of course, you must dance with me; I
                  shall be honored by the preference," and she courtesied gracefully, at the same
                  time giving him a glance which almost bewitched the colonel, whose admiration for
                  the fair stranger was really sincere. "Then, of course, others will claim the same
                  privilege, and as you are the host, you may dispose of me as you choose for the
                  evening; of course, with the consent of my escort."
               "If I could dispose of you as I choose, you would only have one partner this
                  evening," and another bow testified the colonel's gallantry.
               "There, Captain Blanchard," she said, placing her arm within his own, "how prettily that was said.
                  Why don't you take pattern after the colonel, and pay your compliments more
                  delicately? I don't want to be admired, and told so as you would speak of a
                  horse."
               Captain Blanchard bit his lip, to conceal the rising laugh, while Colonel Shee
                  turned red with vexation, for he saw the young vixen was amusing herself at his
                  expense.
               "Come, colonel," she said, seeing the change in his countenance, "let me have
                  Captain Blanchard five minutes, and you may have control of me the whole of the
                  rest of the evening—of course, Major Burr consenting."
               "I agree to that," said the colonel, gaily, pulling out his watch. "Captain, you
                  have just five minutes, so make the most of them," and replacing his watch in his
                  fob, he moved away, leaving Margaret and Captain Blanchard alone.
               "What are you doing here?" queried the captain, in tones so low, they reached no
                  ears save those for whom they were intended.
               "I am residing with General Putnam, a member of his family at present. You are on
                  parole, Colonel Shee says."
               "He speaks the truth, I am sorry to say."
               "Are you doing anything for the king?" she asked earnestly, looking him full in
                  the face as she spoke.
               "How can I? situated as I am, Miss Margaret!"
               "That's no answer to my question. Time is precious, and opportunity rare; are you
                  doing anything for your king's cause?"
               "That's a very singular question for a girl to ask a soldier."
               "And that is a very ridiculous answer from a soldier to the loyal daughter of a
                  loyal subject."
               Captain Blanchard looked steadily at the beautiful, but singular being who hung
                  upon his arm, but she bore his gaze unshrinkingly. At length, seeming to read in
                  her eyes something more than her words had made intelligible, he answered
                  emphatically, but in the same low tones:
               "I am."
               "I have no time to converse with you now; there are too many eyes watching us; you
                  must call on me, at the general's. You have that privilege, I suppose," she
                  continued, inquiringly.
               "Of course," was his reply; "unless you or I are suspected of being"——
               "Hush!" she said, hurriedly, pressing his arm, seeing a bevy of young officers
                  approaching them. "Call on me to-morrow. I ride out every day, now, by permission
                  of General Putnam. I shall ride out alone whenever I can. You must manage to see
                  me whenever you possibly can. I leave that to you. Ah! gentlemen," she continued,
                  in gay tones, as the party approached, "time is up, eh! Well, captain, I am glad
                  to have seen an old friend. Call on me,
                  will you, please! You know where to find me, I suppose. Gentlemen," and she turned
                  to the group of admirers who surrounded her, "there's no harm in my receiving a
                  visit from an old friend, I hope, though we are both sound Royalists."
               "Of course not," said Colonel Shee, who had approached unperceived, from another
                  quarter, "because we expect to convert you to our cause soon, and if we can gain
                  you over to our side, we shall feel secure of victory."
               "Upon my word, colonel," replied Margaret, gaily, moving toward him, and placing
                  her arm within his own, "I don't know how I shall thank you for your appreciation
                  of my worth. Come, I cannot reply to your compliments, but I will dance with you;
                  will that do?" and again the colonel met that fascinating smile.
               "I am more than honored," replied the gallant colonel, as he ventured a gentle
                  pressure upon the arm which hung upon his own.
               He did not perceive the slight curl which for an instant rested upon the lip of
                  the vivacious beauty, or he might not have marched off with his prize so proudly
                  and happily as he did.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               MARGARET AND HER CONQUESTS.
               MARGARET had mixed with the gay assemblage at least two hours, and had been
                  surrounded from first to last by a bevy of admirers and flatterers. During all
                  that time she had only caught an occasional glimpse of Major Burr, who had
                  stationed himself among the elderly ladies, and who seemed to be pleased as well
                  in this society as though he had joined in the giddy throng which filled the
                  spacious apartments.
               Several times she caught his look fixed upon her with an expression which she well
                  knew how to interpret, and when, pleading with absolute truth, down-right
                  inability to dance any more, for the present, she was conducted to the coterie
                  among which the major had established himself, she took his proffered arm with a
                  feeling of real pleasure, which she had not experienced during the whole evening,
                  and which she testified by a gentle pressure of the arm which held her own.
               "Do, Major Burr, take me where I can get some air," she said, beseechingly; "I am
                  almost suffocated with the heat, and absolutely wearied with dancing."
               The young soldier, with a gallant bow, was about moving toward a door which led upon a broad piazza,
                  when, as he turned, he found himself confronted by a corps of general officers,
                  who were approaching him from the direction of the door. General Greene led the
                  van, arm in arm with the gallant Lord Stirling, and the rear was brought up by
                  Generals Heath, Sullivan, Mifflin, and Spencer. They had evidently been engaged in
                  private converse, for even as they approached, their words were uttered to each
                  other in whispered tones.
               "How now, major?" said Lord Stirling, dropping the arm of General Greene, and,
                  advancing with his most courtly bow, "who have we here?"
               "A desperate little Tory, my lord," replied Major Burr, releasing, as he spoke,
                  Margaret's arm from his own. "Miss Moncrieffe, the daughter of"——
               "Oh, yes; I know your father well, my child," he interrupted, smiling as he spoke,
                  and he extended his hand cordially. "It was my fortune once to make a prisoner of
                  him, and I can say, with truth, I was very sorry when he was exchanged. Pray who
                  has captured you?"
               "I believe I belong to General Putnam," she added, as she saw the old soldier
                  advancing toward the circle by which she was surrounded, and as room was made for
                  him, she added, "don't I, general?" and she smiled naively as she spoke.
               Now, General Putnam, with all his well-known courage, so often and so severely
                  tested, was particularly sensitive to ridicule, and when he observed Margaret
                  standing in the midst of the circle of general officers, he feared that she had
                  been speaking of him by the pet name which she had conferred upon him, and which
                  he had permitted because he could not help himself, and the perspiration actually
                  stood on the soldier's brow as he approached, dreading lest he should hear himself
                  addressed in presence of his compeers by his new title. But Margaret was too well
                  bred to use such familiarity under such circumstances as now surrounded her, and
                  as he caught the last words of her sentence only, he answered promptly:
               "Of course you do;" for he was so glad to be freed from his apprehensions he
                  scarcely thought what he said.
               "Really, Miss Moncrieffe," said the gallant Mifflin, "I should like to enlist you
                  in our cause. To judge by the havoc you made to-night, you must be a perfect Mars,
                  or more likely the Goddess of Victory. What bounty shall we pay you to
                  enlist?"
               "Let me have my choice," she said, in the same gay strain.
               "Oh, you need not ask his permission for that, young lady," said General Greene.
                  "Please to look around and make your own selection—yours may be the only
                  difficulty."
               
               Margaret, glad to have an opportunity of turning upon themselves the badinage thus
                  addressed to her by the generals, turned her head very leisurely around, as if
                  taking a survey of the company present, and as she did so, her eyes met those of
                  Major Burr, fixed upon her with anxious scrutiny, for he really feared she might
                  say or do something offensive. She returned his glance with a look which said, as
                  plain as words could speak, "My choice is made," and that look reassured him, for
                  it told him she was only gaining time to make a suitable reply.
               He replied by a glance of equal meaning with her own, and, after scanning the
                  assembled company for some moments, she turned suddenly to General Putnam, and,
                  putting her arm within his own, said, gaily: "I don't see any one here I prefer to
                  my kind friend and host, so I will choose him."
               The good old general actually blushed, as Margaret thus took him by surprise; but
                  his astonishment was heightened, and the laughter of the circle raised to the
                  highest pitch, as she added, "Come, general, one gavotte with me."
               "You little vixen," he said, in low tones, bringing his mouth close to her ear;
                  "I'll put you on bread and water for this for three days, and keep you locked up,"
                  and, raising his voice, he said aloud, "Me dance!" and the burly soldier laughed
                  till the tears ran down his face at the idea—"Me dance, my child! I weigh nearly
                  two hundred pounds, and am over sixty. No, no, I do such things by proxy, as the
                  lawyers say. Here, Burr," and he beckoned his handsome aid, who sprang gaily to
                  his side, "this young lady wants to dance."
               "Thank you, General Putnam," she said, with well affected hauteur, as Major Burr
                  advanced; "I did not ask you to choose a partner for me—I can do that myself.
                  Nothing less than a general officer can get me on the floor again this evening;"
                  and, as she spoke, Lord Stirling, the gallant, high-bred gentleman, stepped
                  forward, and, with a low bow, said:
               "General, Lord Stirling requests the honor of your hand for the next gavotte."
               "Miss Moncrieffe is honored by Lord Stirling's choice," she said, with a courtesy
                  absolutely as courteous as his bow, and with a quick, meaning glance at Major
                  Burr, who had watched her with an interest excelled only by his admiration of her
                  perfect self-possession, she took the arm of the gallant nobleman, and was led
                  away by him.
               "Faith, that is the greatest vixen I have seen in many a day, Burr," said General
                  Putnam, turning to his aid, who stood by his side. "She had the impudence to ask
                  me to dance the gavotte. I believe I will ask her to storm a battery with me some
                  day."
               "She won't refuse, general, I can promise you," replied Major Burr, laughingly, as
                  he noticed how seriously ously the good
                  old general took to heart the playful badinage of Margaret. "I don't believe she
                  knows what fear is, any more than you do."
               This well-timed and well-merited compliment soothed the old general, and joining
                  the coterie, he was soon employed in discussing with them, but in low tones, the
                  probabilities and possibilities which the next few weeks might bring forth, for it
                  was generally believed that Lord Howe, who had left Virginia with his fleet,
                  intended to make New York the centre of his operations for the next campaign.
               Major Burr sauntered carelessly away, and joined a group of young officers, who
                  stood watching the motions of Lord Stirling and Margaret, as they moved through
                  the stately and graceful gavotte, the favorite dance of that period. Leaning
                  against a column which stood near the folding doors, in the room in which they
                  were dancing, he feasted his eyes in silent contemplation of her to whom he had
                  given his whole heart and soul, envying the noble old general even the poor
                  privilege of one dance.
               Lord Stirling having concluded the gavotte with Margaret, led her again to the
                  coterie of general officers, who, by this time, had been surrounded by a large
                  corps of younger officers and ladies, and again she proved the centre of
                  attraction.
               Her wit was so pungent, her satire so good-natured, and her vivacity so perfectly
                  natural, she carried all hearts by storm, and the daughter of the Royalist
                  officer, who a few days before had been glad to find shelter and protection with
                  her natural enemies (for as such she looked upon all Americans), was the cynosure
                  of all eyes, and the great centre of attraction to all.
               It was not until the close of the entertainment that Major Burr had an opportunity
                  of being alone with her for one moment, and it was then only effected at her
                  earnest request, that she should be conducted to him, and on her positive
                  assurance she would not dance any more during the night.
               "Oh, Aaron," she said, as taking his ready arm, they moved away from the throng
                  which had surrounded her, "how I hate and despise these compliments and
                  flatteries, meaning nothing. Do you know what I have been thinking the whole
                  evening?" and she looked fondly in his face as she spoke.
               "I know who I have been thinking of," he said, with a smile full of
                  meaning.
               "And so do I, Aaron. I was thinking how meaningless and hollow all their
                  compliments and flatteries were, when I compared them with the look I met when you
                  held me in your arms after having rescued me from that ruffian," and she clung
                  closer to his side, as if the memory of the peril she had passed was so vivid that
                  she dreaded its recurrence, and clung to him for protection.
               "Were you, indeed, Margaret?" asked the young officer, eagerly, as they stepped upon the balcony
                  which fronted on Broadway.
               "Indeed, Aaron, I was. Believe me, though I am young, and seem giddy, thoughtless
                  and reckless, my feelings are warm, deep, and very earnest. You have them all.
                  Don't heed how I act with others; I must act as I have done from policy. Remember,
                  Aaron, I am only here by courtesy of our enemies."
               "Oh, don't say enemies, Margaret," exclaimed Major Burr, impetuously. "Do not let
                  that word come between us."
               "It never can interpose between us, Aaron," and she laid her hand on his. "I have
                  acted toward you rashly, impulsively, but only as my heart dictated. Do not think
                  less of me, that I have been so frank?"
               "Dear, dearest Margaret, do what you will, say what you will, act as you will; the
                  consciousness that I possess your love is all I ask to render my happiness on
                  earth complete. But oh! what is to be our future?" and he sighed deeply as he
                  spoke.
               "Love, happiness, Aaron. You love me, don't you?" she asked, turning upon him her
                  eyes, beaming with the deep feeling which prompted the question.
               "Better than anything on earth, Margaret," was the earnest reply, delivered with a
                  warmth and depth of manner which alone would have convinced any woman of his
                  sincerity.
               "I know, I felt it, and have perfect faith in your love. So do not let us borrow
                  trouble; it will come without our aid, and heaven only knows how soon."
               "You have been very much admired to-night, Margaret," he said, half inquiringly,
                  half reproachfully.
               "Yes," she replied, laughingly, "I believe I have made several conquests. Colonel
                  St. Clair has declared that he never will forgive me if I do not attend the ball
                  of his battalion next week."
               "And what did you say?" he inquired, with a searching look.
               "Oh, I referred him to General Putnam, and if he gains his permission, I promised
                  you should take me there."
               "The dear, good old general can't refuse you anything, so of course you will
                  go."
               "And you?"
               "Of course, by your permission. You know I surrendered to you, and consider myself
                  under your orders."
               The conversation was pursued in this strain for a few moments longer, the lovers
                  leaning on the balcony on which they stood, and speaking in almost whispered
                  tones, when it was interrupted by the appearance of a sudden flash of light, which
                  shot up from a house apparently not far distant from the one in which they were
                  standing.
               "There is a fire, Margaret. I must go and see where and what it may be, for we
                  have so many Tories among us, we have
                  to be unceasingly vigilant. You must go home with General Putnam, and I will see
                  you in the morning. I have to ride a long distance to-morrow," and these last
                  words were uttered in tones which said, "Would you like to accompany me?"
               "So much the better, Aaron. We shall have a better opportunity for conversation,
                  for I shall manage to join you. You see I am bold, but love has made me so."
               "Thank you a thousand times, my own Margaret," exclaimed the young officer,
                  enthusiastically, as he drew her arm within his own, and leading her back into the
                  room where the company were still assembled, consigned her to the care of the good
                  old general, to whom he had reported the fact of the fire, and announced his
                  intention of going to the scene in order to ascertain, if possible, whether it was
                  an accident or the result of design on the part of some of the turbulent Tories
                  who were permitted to remain in the city, though only upon giving bonds for their
                  behavior.
               "She will go home with me, major," he said, as Margaret drew close to his side.
                  "Go and see what it is, and report when you return. I shall not retire until you
                  come back. Oh, you need not fear for Miss Moncrieffe," said the old soldier,
                  gaily, as he caught his aid stealing a glance at Margaret. "If I don't take good
                  care of her, there are a hundred here ready to take my place. She will be safe
                  enough, I will warrant."
               Major Burr made no reply to his general, but with a low bow, took his leave, and
                  proceeded toward the scene of the fire.
               The conflagration was very trifling, and the flames being soon extinguished, the
                  young aid retired to his own quarters, where he found General Putnam in the
                  parlor, surrounded by his family, Margaret, of course, included, and having made
                  his report, he was about retiring for the night, when the general arrested him by
                  saying:
               "By the way, major," and as Major Burr turned to receive his command, he continued
                  sternly: "I wish you would send some discreet officer to-morrow night, to
                  Corbie's, and report what he sees and hears. It is our belief that his pestilent
                  den is the resort of the most dangerous characters, who are eternally plotting
                  treason; and if we discover any cause, we are determined to break his house up at
                  once, and send him out of the city. Pick out some one not likely to be known, and
                  let him make any pretence he chooses, to find out what is really going on there,
                  but it must be some brave, cool-headed, intelligent man."
               "I have one in my eye now, general," replied the aid, "a young fellow from
                  Elizabeth. He is the son of an old lady, with whom I am well acquainted, and with
                  whom I have passed many a happy hour; a sharp, keen, quick-witted fellow, brave as
                  a lion, and if there is anything thing
                  wrong going on, I will guarantee he will find it out."
               While this conversation was going on, between the general and his aid, Margaret
                  seemed an attentive listener to the prattle of the general's daughters concerning
                  the ball and their beaux (for in those days, young ladies were just as fond of the
                  ball and beau, as they are at present), but she had heard and remembered every
                  word which he had uttered.
               In a few minutes after the aid had retired, she pleaded a severe headache, for
                  leaving such pleasant company, and withdrew to her own room, and seating herself
                  at a table, drew forth a small slip of paper, and hastily wrote a few lines in
                  pencil. This she folded up in a very small compass, and placed in her pocket; and
                  she then proceeded to note down the incidents and occurrences of the day and
                  night, as, indeed, she had done since the first day she rode out with Major
                  Burr.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               THE BROTHERS' MEETING.
               ON the following morning, General Putnam's presented the appearance of a levee.
                  Officers of every grade poured in, with kind inquiries after the health of the
                  Misses Putnam, who had the penetration, however, to discover that this remarkable
                  anxiety for their health, was but a pretext for seeing Miss Moncrieffe; and while
                  slightly piqued, they had the discretion and good sense to make the best of it.
                  Indeed, one of them, taking a moment when the parlor was empty of visitors, said
                  to Margaret, with an arch look; "it's well you can't marry more than one,
                  Margaret, there's some chance for us, after you have taken your choice."
               "Keep them all, cousin Bell," she said, gaily. "I am too good a loyalist for any
                  of them, and they know it, for I have spoken my mind very freely."
               At this juncture another visitor was announced, one who was a stranger to the
                  general's family, and who had inquired for Miss Moncrieffe.
               It was Captain Blanchard, of the Royalist army; and as his name was announced,
                  Margaret sprang forward, and as she did so, she hastily thrust her right hand
                     into the pocket of her dress, and as
                  she advanced, she drew it forth and extended both hands, which were warmly grasped
                  by the gallant, but unfortunate officer, who, as an old friend of Major
                  Moncrieffe, was warmly attached to his daughter.
               "An old friend of mine, ladies," she said, drawing him forward, and retaining one
                  of his hands in her own; one of my father's best friends—Captain Blanchard, of the
                  royal army."
               The Misses Putnam bowed to the salutation of the captain, but his reception was
                  much less cordial than that of the provincial officers—for the general's daughters
                  were ardent patriots. This was felt by the captain, who, however, only exhibited
                  his perception of it, by directing the most of his conversation to Margaret; and
                  the advent of two or three young officers enabled him for a few moments, to
                  converse with her alone. She inquired after old friends, spoke about home and dear
                  old England, with the honest enthusiasm of her heart, and, for the moment, forgot
                  their position—he, a prisoner on parole; she, the protégée of a rebel general,
                  glad of the protection which he had so courteously proffered, and which was so
                  hospitably secured to her.
               A few moments only, however, were allowed them for private conversation—if,
                  indeed, that could be called private, which was overheard by all present—for the
                  visitors soon turned it into a more general channel; and Captain Blanchard having,
                  by his manly, polished bearing ing, worn away the impression which his first
                  appearance had made, solely on account of his position, rose to withdraw, and
                  received from the Misses Putnam, as well as from Margaret, a pressing invitation
                  to call again, whenever he found it pleasant to do so, an invitation of which he
                  promised to avail himself at an early day.
               Margaret escorted him to the door of the parlor, where a look full of meaning was
                  exchanged between them, and he took his leave, with a hearty shake of the
                  hand.
               Proceeding up Broadway, he stopped at the shop of Forbes, the gunsmith, and found
                  him alone.
               "Are my pistols finished yet?" he asked, after the salutation of the morning had
                  passed between them.
               "Not quite, captain," was the reply. "Won't you walk into the back room and rest a
                  bit?"
               "No, I thank you, Forbes. Are any of your boys about?"
               "No, I am entirely alone," and as he spoke, the captain drew from his pocket a
                  scrap of paper, rolled into a very small compass, saying to Forbes, as he unfolded
                  it: "Keep your eyes wide open," and proceeded to read it. It ran briefly thus:
               "I don't know who Corbie is; but a party is going to his house to-night in
                  disguise, to see and hear what he can. If Corbie is one of our
                  friends put him on his guard."
               
               "Bravo!" he said, as he rolled the paper up and put it in his mouth. "Now, Forbes,
                  can you see Corbie to-day?"
               "Of course, if it is necessary, captain, I can do anything for his most gracious
                  majesty's cause."
               "It is of the utmost importance," said Captain Blanchard, earnestly. "You must see
                  him or send word by some trusty friend that a person is coming to his house
                  to-night, in disguise, probably to watch what is said and done. So tell him that
                  if any stranger comes there, to be careful. He knows all of our friends, does he
                  not?"
               "Of course he does. But to make matters sure, I will be there myself. Oh, captain,
                  there's the very man, Hickey," and, advancing toward the door, he hailed the
                  guardsman, who at that moment was passing by on the other side of the street
                  toward the lower end of the city, and who, on hearing Forbes' voice, immediately
                  crossed over and entered the shop, which he could well do without exciting any
                  suspicions, as it was frequented by officers and soldiers of all parties, although
                  Forbes was a noted Royalist.
               "Hickey, you must see Corbie as soon as possible, and tell him that there will be
                  a spy at the house this evening," and as he spoke he looked at Captain Blanchard,
                  whose face was crimsoned as he heard that word; for to him, a prisoner on parole,
                  received and treated as a gentleman, that word emphatically belonged.
               "I know where it comes from," said Hickey, with a meaning smile; "I wish there was
                  more like"——
               "Go along, sir," said Captain Blanchard, sternly, and he gave the guardsman a look
                  which said, as plain as words could speak, "don't name her."
               Touching his cap, the guardsman left the shop, and, as he crossed the street,
                  Forbes said to the captain:
               "That fellow has brought us nearly a dozen first-rate fellows. We've got a captain
                  in McDougal's regiment, too—a fine young fellow, who, I think, you'll like."
               "No great gain, I am afraid," replied the captain, to whom the well-merited
                  character of the regiment, for insubordination and general inefficiency, was quite
                  familiar; "when is the boat coming again?"
               "We never know; it has not been up now in three nights. I shouldn't wonder if it
                  came to-night."
               "It must not land on any account," continued the captain.
               "Of course not—Corbie has that arranged. When there's any danger about, he always
                  puts a light in the end window. Those in the boat can see it long before they
                  reach the cove, and of course they won't attempt to land. He'll look out for
                  that."
               "Well, Forbes, be careful. You know how much depends upon silence and discretion.
                  I am going on the island to-day for a
                  ride. What shall I say to Mathews?"
               "Say I want a hundred guineas. Hickey has got two more of the guardsmen, and I
                  must have the subsistence money for those we've got. Prompt pay will keep them
                  safer than oaths."
               "True," replied the captain, musingly, and at that moment a couple of officers
                  from Smallwood's command entered the shop to inquire after some repairs which they
                  had ordered made to their weapons, and, as they had often met Captain Blanchard in
                  social intercourse, and were well acquainted with him, they soon entered into a
                  friendly conversation, which, turning on shooting, was terminated by a challenge
                  from the senior of the trio, Captain Blanchard, to a trial of skill at pistols, to
                  come off at once, in the rear of Forbes's house, and with any pistols at hand.
               "My own are here, Captain Barnum," said the Royalist; "but rather out of order.
                  However, they are better than most you will find, and we'll use them if you have
                  no objections. Forbes, hurry and get them ready for us. What shall it be? A bottle
                  of wine, of course," he added, gaily, "and we'll drink it at my rooms."
               "A bottle apiece, captain," said Lieutenant Symmes, the other of the continental
                  officers; to which, of course, Captain Blanchard assented.
               Forbes produced the weapons belonging to Captain Blanchard, which were handled and
                  admired by the young Southerners with evident delight, for they were really superb
                  specimens of workmanship, and evidently made for use.
               "Why, Captain Blanchard," exclaimed Captain Barnum, "this is very singular."
               "And pray what is very singular?" said Captain Blanchard, with an inquiring
                  look.
               "Why, this coat of arms on your pistols. Look here," and he drew forth his massive
                  gold watch, to which was appended a large carnelian seal, exquisitely cut. "See,"
                  and he held the seal close to that engraved on the butt of the pistols.
               Captain Blanchard looked, and a single glance sufficed to show that one was the
                  counterpart of the other. He looked at the seal—he looked at Captain Barnum—and he
                  looked at the seal again. But the look afforded no explanation except that they
                  were precisely alike.
               "These are my mother's arms," said Captain Barnum, pointing to his seal. "She was
                  a Blanchard."
               "And her name?" asked the Royalist, as the perspiration started to his brow.
               "Mary, from Hertford County."
               Captain Blanchard, without saying one word, took the pistol from the hand of the
                  continental officer, and placed it gently in the case, then taking off his cap, he
                  wiped the perspiration which stood in heavy beads on his forehead, and said slowly, and with deep
                  emotion:
               "She was my aunt—my favorite aunt—and we are cousins, Captain Barnum;" and, as he
                  spoke, he extended his hand, adding, "Come, captain, we may shake hands as
                  relations, at least; God put an end to this cruel war, which brings us into such
                  mortal conflict with even our blood."
               For an instant Captain Barnum stood mute. There could be no doubt that what had
                  been said was true, and he, too, felt bitterly the necessity which compelled him
                  to view as an enemy one to whom he was united by such close ties of consanguinity.
                  But he hesitated only a moment; then grasping the hand of his royalist cousin,
                  forgot, for a time, the position in which they were placed, in the pleasure, not
                  unmixed with pain, of this singular meeting. Both seemed boys again. Captain
                  Blanchard was the senior of his cousin some twelve years, but remembered him well
                  when he was an infant, at the time he embarked with his parents for the Colony of
                  Virginia. Nothing was heard from them for years; but at length a letter was
                  received from Mary, picturing in glowing terms the loveliness of the country, the
                  healthfulness of the climate, and the happiness by which she was surrounded.
                  Indeed, her description of life in Virginia was painted in such glowing couleurs de rose, Mr. Blanchard's youngest son,
                  Edmund, asked and obtained permission to join his aunt in their new home, and came
                  out to seek his own fortune in the new world—a permission the more readily
                  granted, as the old man had a large family dependent upon him, and an income far
                  from corresponding to the demands which they necessarily made upon it.
               Edmund Blanchard wrote occasionally to his parents, but at length all
                  communication between the families ceased, and Mr. Blanchard and his wife sank
                  into the grave, ignorant whether their youngest and favorite child was living or
                  dead.
               Questions were asked and answered by either with marvellous rapidity, and as they
                  continued to converse, their interest in each other grew stronger, until at length
                  Captain Barnum put an end to the conversation by placing his arm within that of
                  his cousin, and saying:
               "Suppose we postpone our match for to-day. Come to my quarters, and I will tell
                  you something that will surprise you more than anything you have heard yet. Come,
                  Symmes, some other time we will shoot for the wine; you will, I am sure, excuse us
                  now, under such circumstances;" and arm in arm, the trio proceeded up Broadway a
                  short distance, when Lieutenant Symmes, rightly thinking that the cousins, so long
                  separated, would have many personal and purely private matters to speak of, made
                  some excuse for not joining them, and left them to pursue their way to Captain
                  Barnum's quarters alone.
               
               The captain, in company with other officers of the same command, had rented a
                  commodious house, which stood a little back from the street now known as Chambers
                  street, not far distant from the Battery, which extended from the corner of Warren
                  and Greenwich streets almost to the old Vauxhall Garden.
               Several officers were in the room into which Captain Blanchard was conducted, to
                  whom he was introduced, and as all had heard him ever named with high praises,
                  with the courtesy and gallantry characteristic of soldiers and gentlemen, they
                  gave him a cordial welcome. Captain Barnum whispered a few words to one of the
                  young officers, who retired almost immediately, and wine having been ordered and
                  brought, the party were soon engaged in lively conversation. By common consent,
                  any language which could pain or wound the feelings of the captured officer was
                  carefully avoided, and he was soon made to feel as much at home as if he had been
                  at his own mess-table, for he was in the society of high-toned gentlemen, who,
                  having espoused the cause of their country from principle, were disposed to admit
                  that those who differed with them might be actuated by motives equally
                  commendable.
               Captain Blanchard, in the company of the several southerners, soon felt at home,
                  and the story, jest, and witticism passed freely about without fear of giving
                  offence to any.
               As the senior officer, Captain Barnum presided over their matutinal revel, and his
                  presence seemed to operate as a check upon the conviviality of his compeers, who,
                  as ready for fighting as for feasting, had turned many looks toward him, wondering
                  at the seriousness of his manner.
               But even in the midst of that hilarity, he was serious—deeply, thoughtfully so;
                  and when he was awakened from a reverie into which he had fallen, by the return of
                  the young officer who had before retired at his bidding, an expression of actual
                  pain crossed his features, as he arose and said:
               "Gentlemen, pray excuse my friend, Captain Blanchard, and myself, for a few
                  moments," and at these words Captain Blanchard arose, followed by his host, and
                  left the room, wondering, however, what could be the purpose of this summons.
               "I promised you a surprise, Captain Blanchard," said the provincial officer, with
                  a smile of actual sadness. "I know you will excuse the manner in which I fulfill
                  my promise, in consideration of my motives; pray, come to my quarters," and he
                  ascended to the second story, followed by the wondering royalist.
               On entering the apartment, they found seated there, an officer dressed in the
                  uniform of Colonel McDougal's regiment; a fine, stalwart looking man, who had
                  probably seen some thirty summers. He was engaged in perusing "Rivington's
                  Gazette," the only one published in the city at that period; as the door was
                  opened, he dropped his paper, and
                  advanced to meet Captain Barnum, with whom he was on terms of familiarity, at the
                  same time greeting Captain Blanchard with a courteous bow.
               "Well, captain, you see I am a minute man," he said, gaily. "What is it? Love or
                  war!"
               "A little of both, captain," was the reply of the Marylander, and as he spoke,
                  Captain Blanchard and the continental officer advanced close to his side.
               "You do not seem to know each other," he said, turning from one to the other, with
                  a smile.
               "I cannot say I remember ever having the pleasure of seeing this gentleman,
                  before," said Captain Blanchard, the Royalist, really lost in amazement at his
                  host's conduct, and gazing steadily at his namesake.
               "Well, then, I must refresh your memory. Captain Blanchard, of the royalist army,
                  let me introduce to you, Captain Blanchard, of the continental army—Col.
                  McDougal's regiment."
               For an instant the two captains stood eyeing each other, as if striving to recall
                  something either had forgotten; but nature, at length, asserted her sway, and with
                  an exclamation of joy, they sprung forward, and as they stood clasped in each
                  other's arms, "brother Edmund," and "brother Arthur," testified that the brothers,
                  separated for more than fifteen years, had met again.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               A SPY IN THE CAMP.
               IT was scarcely dusk, when Gilbert Forbes, dressed in his best clothes, and
                  looking as unlike a workman as he could make himself appear, entered the tap-room
                  of Corbie's house, where he found some half-dozen of the soldiers, from various
                  regiments, assembled, discussing the affairs of the nation, and making themselves
                  ridiculous, as rapidly as they could, by swallowing glass after glass of the "real
                  Jamaica," or the "real schnapps," set before them. With these, were present, also,
                  as many well-known and marked royalists, who were similarly engaged.
               Forbes advanced to the bar, behind which Corbie was standing, and as he called for
                  some of the best Jamaica, a glance of intelligence passed between them and then
                  the former was satisfied that Hickey had faithfully delivered his message.
               "Come, boys," said Forbes, seating himself at the table already occupied by the
                  half score, who moved around to make room for the jolly gunsmith, for he was known
                  to almost the entire army, "let's have a game of cards. Corbie, have you any
                  cards?"
               
               "I don't know, but I can find a pack, somewhere;" and he commenced a search in the
                  drawers of the bar, which proving unsuccessful, he lighted a candle, and left the
                  room to search for them. He soon reappeared, bearing in his hand the articles
                  demanded, and a well-worn, greasy looking checkerboard. "Here, you can't all play
                  cards; here's dominoes, here's cards, and here's the checkerboard," and he placed
                  them severally on the table, as he spoke.
               Parties were soon formed, and the various games were commenced, interrupted at
                  occasional intervals by the arrival of some habitual frequenter of the house, who,
                  after having partaken of his drink, retreated from the bar to the table, around
                  which the guests were seated, and amused themselves by looking over the games of
                  the various players engaged.
               It was nearly eight o'clock. Many glasses had been drank. Many of the inmates were
                  fast approaching a condition, which, so far as the soldiers were concerned, would
                  unfit them for appearance at their quarters, with out the risk of passing the
                  night in the guard-house, and the certainty of a flogging in the morning, and,
                  perhaps, a diet of bread and water for a week, in addition.
               Hickey was not present, as he was on duty; but the stalwart Barnes, who had saved
                  his back from the stripes, at the expense of his honor and manhood, was among
                  them, having received his cue from his fellow-guardsman, and fellow-traitor,
                  Hickey.
               The evening wore on. Drinking, card-playing, and the narration of marvellous
                  adventures, helped to wile away the time, and when it lacked less than half an
                  hour of tattoo, which was beat off at nine o'clock, Corbie and Forbes exchanged
                  significant glances. Thus far there had been no one present, with whom both were
                  unacquainted, for Corbie had a very regular run of customers, and each was
                  congratulating himself, inwardly, upon having escaped the snare spread for them,
                  when the door of the tap-room was opened, and a tall, country-looking youth,
                  attired in a dress which defies description—for it was a motley mixture of the
                  country farm-boy, and the aspiring soldier——entered, and with a hurried glance
                  around the room, and scanning its inmates, unnoticed, however, by any save Corbie
                  and his fellow Loyalist, Forbes, stepped up to the bar and demanded some liquor,
                  at the same time laying down a continental bill of one dollar to pay for it.
               Corbie knew his man at once, for that simple movement had betrayed him, as the
                  refusal to receive the continental money at par, at that time, was, by special act
                  of Congress, made a crime, which was most severely punished.
               The liquor was poured out, and the full change handed over, which the stranger
                  took up without remark; but he stole a hasty glance at Corbie, as he pretended to
                  be looking over the counter at the cards in the hands of one of the players, who sat with his
                  back toward him.
               "You have nice quarters here," he said, leaning on the bar, and sipping his
                  liquor.
               "You ain't the only one who thinks so," said the landlord, with a wink and a
                  smile, nodding toward the group of soldiers gathered around his table. "I keep a
                  quiet, orderly house, and serve the best of liquors to anybody who will pay for
                  them. Everybody who comes in here is a friend as long as he behaves like a man and
                  pays his scot, and proves himself one."
               "And how may that be done?" asked the stranger.
               "By not talking war or politics. General Washington allows me to keep the house,
                  right by his quarters, you see, because he knows I never meddle with what don't
                  concern me. But I say, young man, where are you from? I never saw you before."
               "Oh! I'm from Jersey."
               "Yes; but where are your quarters?"
               "Oh! a thundering ways off, and I'm afraid I shall get in some cursed trouble; I
                  don't believe I can get in by tattoo; let me see," and he looked at the old clock
                  which ornamented one corner of the bar-room—"almost nine. By hookey! I shall catch
                  it! I say, landlord, can't I stay here to-night? and I'll make up some lie in the
                  morning. I couldn't get through the sentries now, and I don't want to be punished
                  for nothing. You see, I went down into the city to see a girl, and"——
               "How far have you to go?" interrupted Corbie, with an appearance of interest, as
                  if he felt sorry for the predicament of the youthful soldier.
               "Oh! 'way over to Badlam's Battery," and he named the works erected at what is now
                  the intersection of Market and Madison streets, and distant more than two miles
                  from Corbie's, across lots and swamps between the two points.
               Corbie did not choose to ask him how he got so far out of his way; he knew that
                  well enough; but, turning to Forbes, said:
               "I say, Gilbert, you know I haven't got but one spare bed, and, as you're out so
                  late, of course you're going to stay. Will you share with this young man?"
               "Oh, of course; anything to oblige, Corbie," and, rising from the table, as he
                  finished his game of checkers, he approached the bar, and addressing the new
                  comer, said: "I'll go halves with you, young man, if you will promise not to
                  quarrel; you know they call me a Royalist."
               "No—be you, though?" said the youth, looking intently at the gunsmith. "Well," and
                  he lowered his voice to a whisper, almost, as he spoke, "there ain't much danger
                  of our quarrelling on that score," and he gave the cunning gunsmith a knowing
                  wink.
               
               "My name's Adams," continued the young man, emptying his glass. "What may yours
                  be?"
               "Forbes—Gilbert Forbes."
               "What! Forbes, down there in Broadway? You don't say."
               "The same," replied Forbes, ready to laugh at the idea of he or Corbie being taken
                  in by such a man.
               "Oh, I'm mighty glad to see you, I can tell you. It was a lucky chance as brought
                  me here to-night. We shan't quarrel, I know. Come, as we've got to bundle in
                  together, let's have a drink," and he threw down on the counter a Spanish
                  shilling, part of the change which Corbie had paid him, calling for some "more
                  Jamaiky," at the same time bidding the gunsmith to order what he chose; and as he
                  spoke, he turned toward the group still seated around the table, and scanned them
                  with eager looks.
               While his back was turned, Corbie and Forbes exchanged glances; they knew their
                  man, and he had already shown them how to treat him.
               "Come, Mr. Forbes; I don't care whether you are a Loyalist or a Royalist, I kind
                  o' like you, and I drink your health;" and he touched his lips to his glass.
               "I drink yours in a full glass," said Forbes, laughingly, emptying his glass
                  without taking it from his mouth.
               "Come, sir," he added, drawing a long breath, "you can't do anything less than I
                  have done."
               "Of course not," said the young soldier; and he tossed off his glass of Jamaica
                  which Corbie had poured for him, filling the tumbler nearly two-thirds full.
               It lacked now only five minutes of nine, and, as the company prepared to go,
                  Corbie went around to collect his glasses from the table; and while thus engaged,
                  Forbes and young Adams were employed in an animated conversation.
               Adams pretended to feel the effects of the liquor he had drank; but Forbes was too
                  cunning to be caught so easily, for he had noticed that a portion of the young
                  soldier's last glass had gone down outside his throat.
               "I say, Forbes, they won't kill a fellow, will they, for being out all night?"
               "Oh, no; you can make up some good lie for morning. Perhaps they'll give you two
                  or three days on bread and water; that won't amount to much, you know."
               "Not so bad as a flogging. But I say," and he dropped his voice to a whisper,
                  "ain't these fellows going pretty soon?"
               "Yes, they must go in a few moments, or the guardhouse will bring them up. Why do
                  you ask?"
               "Oh, 'cause I want to talk to you a bit. I've heard of you afore, Forbes, I have;"
                  and he leered, with a half drunken expression, at the gunsmith.
               
               "Me, sir," said Forbes, coolly; "everybody in York knows me. Some on 'em are down
                  on me, 'cause they say I'm a d—d Tory; but I mind my own business, and doesn't
                  trouble anybody. They can't get any hold on me, as I doesn't meddle with anything
                  as doesn't concern me." Forbes, who was quite able to converse in much better
                  language, adopted this style to draw out young Adams.
               While this conversation was going on, the guests had gradually departed, and the
                  bar-room was deserted by all save Corbie, Forbes, and the young Jerseyman.
               Corbie was busily engaged in locking and barring the doors and windows, talking
                  the while to Forbes and the young soldier, the latter of whom, acting partial
                  drunkenness, called for some more liquor, and insisted that the landlord should
                  join them.
               Corbie readily assented to this, as, to use his own words, "They had the night
                  before them;" and pouring out three glasses of liquor, he placed them on the
                  table, and seating himself, as did his companions, said:
               "Come, young man, you must not go to bed without drinking our toast. You need not
                  drink it unless you wish;" and raising his glass to his lips, he said: "Here's to
                  the king—God bless him."
               "Here's to the king—God bless him!" echoed Adams, emptying his glass, for the
                  first glass he had drank, and the portion of the second, had so inflamed his
                  appetite, he made no attempt to resist the craving thus aroused, and its effects
                  were seemingly almost immediately perceptible.
               "I say, boys," he said, lowering his voice almost to a whisper, "do they flog a
                  fellow in your service?"
               "Oh, yes," replied Forbes, constituting himself spokesman; "three dozen for being
                  out of quarters at night, and twice as much for getting drunk."
               "You don't say!" exclaimed the astonished youth.
               "True as gospel. Why, Corbie, here, deserted to save his back, because the
                  court-martial sentenced him to a hundred lashes for getting on a little spree and
                  outstaying his time."
               "Whew!" exclaimed the now really half intoxicated soldier; "you don't say!"
                  drawing out the words to a terrible length.
               "Yes, there's fifty pounds reward offered for him now, and if they get him on
                  board the ship, or on the island, I wouldn't be in his place for twice fifty
                  pounds."
               Adams looked at Corbie, as if for confirmation of these assertions, and the
                  landlord, setting down his glass just finished, said, with a half sigh:
               "Yes, it's so. I wouldn't get in their hands again for all I've got in this house.
                  But come, boys, you must turn in now; if the guard see any light about the house
                  when they go the rounds, you will wish you were somewhere else—the guard-house
                  would bring both of you up for the night, and I wouldn't answer for to-morrow. Come, Forbes, take a light, you know
                  the way. Adams, you go with him; I want to take care of the bar. Good night," and
                  handing a light to the gunsmith, he led the way up a small flight of stairs, to
                  the room on the second story appropriated to the lodgers.
               "Curse it," he said to himself, when alone, "I don't believe it's worth while to
                  warn 'em off to-night. Every day is a day now, and we can manage that youngster
                  anyhow;" and he went on cleaning his glasses, and transferring the money from his
                  till to a buckskin bag which he drew from his pocket.
               While he was thus engaged, Forbes and his young friend were preparing to retire to
                  rest for the night. Adams seemed to be partially affected by the liquor he had
                  drank, but Forbes, who was not only an old toper, but as cunning as a fox, found
                  little difficulty in detecting the simulation, and was, therefore, on his
                  guard.
               In a few moments both were disrobed, and lying side by side. Forbes soon, to all
                  appearance, settled himself for a night's rest, and commenced a snore which would
                  have satisfied the most skeptical that he worshipped at the shrine of Bacchus, and
                  was now paying penalty to Morpheus.
               Young Adams, whose head was proof against even the quantity of "old Jamaiky" he
                  had imbibed, and who had been selected for this hazardous mission as well on
                  account of that peculiar qualification as for his natural shrewdness, heard his
                  companion snoring, and after a few moments of patient, or rather impatient,
                  waiting, to assure himself that he was sleeping, rose quietly, and stole
                  noiselessly to the door leading to the stairs which they had ascended.
               This he opened cautiously, and descending to the other door, which led into the
                  tap-room, and which opened inwardly, he planted himself upon the steps, and with
                  his ear close to the door, prepared to listen to anything that might
                  transpire.
               He had not been there many minutes when he heard three raps at the rear window,
                  and the opening and closing of a door assured him that some persons had been
                  admitted.
               "Well, Corbie, what is the word now?" said Colonel Fanning, as he entered the
                  bar-room, dressed as before.
               "Hist!" said Corbie, in a whisper, pointing to the door which led to the second
                  story.
               "What is it?" asked the colonel, with an air of anxiety, but in subdued tones.
               "We heard to-day, I don't know how, except that it came through Captain Blanchard,
                  that a spy would be here to-night. He's here now, upstairs," and he pointed again
                  to the door; "he's more than two-thirds drunk, so I thought I wouldn't set the
                  signal."
               "Right, Corbie. Now, have you seen Yates?"
               "No; no one of that name has been here yet, as I know of."
               
               "Well, he will come at any hour; treat him well, and send him aboard as soon as
                  possible. We want to move up as soon as we can."
               "Who is he? Who is Yates?"
               "A fellow who has promised to pilot us as far as the Spuytenduyvel; that will
                  answer our purpose, you know."
               "But how am I to know him among so many who come here?" asked Corbie, earnestly.
                  "I wouldn't make a mistake for a fortune."
               "True. Here," and he produced a packet of letters, and, looking over them, he
                  selected one which he handed to Corbie, for it was addressed to him. "He will ask
                  if 'any news has been heard of the fleet.' Remember, 'any news of the fleet'—any
                  one who comes with that password is safe."
               "I understand," said Corbie, opening, as he spoke, the letter addressed to him,
                  and striving to master its contents—a difficult task, indeed; for the writer,
                  Governor Tryon, as has been said, was the worst of penmen, and Corbie far from
                  being a scholar.
               "Here are letters for Blanchard, Matthews, Forbes—and, let me see—and here is one
                  for Miss Moncrieffe. Who is she, Corbie?"
               "Why, that young girl at General Putnam's. She came here a few days ago from
                  Elizabeth, and is staying with him."
               "Well, that must be delivered with the greatest secrecy. How can you manage
                  that?"
               "I will see Captain Blanchard to-morrow; he can go where I cannot."
               "And how do you get on, Corbie?" asked the messenger, seating himself at the table
                  so recently vacated by the soldiers and Loyalists who had surrounded it, at the
                  same time placing in an inner pocket of his jacket a packet which Corbie handed to
                  him, with his finger on his lips, as if cautioning him to speak in lower tones,
                  though all of the conversation just narrated had been carried on almost in a
                  whisper.
               "Oh, excellently. We've got four of the guards now, one of the captains of
                  McDougal's regiment, and I don't know how many others—Forbes, you know, has the
                  management of that."
               "Well, we can't do anything without Yates. I expected to have found him here,"
                  said the colonel, with an air of disappointment and vexation combined.
               "I am sorry for the sake of the righteous cause," said Corbie. "But come,
                  colonel," and, approaching nearer to him, he whispered something in his ear, and
                  withdrawing behind the bar, soon disappeared beneath the trap which led to the
                  cellar, where he kept his famous "old south side."
               A low, peculiar whistle from the colonel, who had advanced to the window, which he
                  had unbarred and thrown open, was answered by a similar signal, apparently rently from the river, and, before
                  Corbie had returned from the cellar, half a dozen sturdy seamen, dressed in the
                  blue of the royal navy, were at the door, awaiting admission, for that signal had
                  called them there.
               "Here it is, colonel," said Corbie, in low tones, as he emerged from the cellar,
                  cautiously and noiselessly closing the trap door after him, and he laid upon the
                  table a bottle with the familiar and highly-prized seal.
               The colonel made no reply; but placing his finger on his lips, pointed to the
                  door, a sign seemingly well understood by the landlord, for he proceeded
                  cautiously to unlock and unbar it, admitting the stalwart fellows who stood there
                  awaiting entrance.
               "Give them something," said the colonel, in low tones, as he proceeded to decant
                  the generous wine which Corbie had set before him, and the ready landlord, going
                  behind the bar, produced glasses for each, and, without asking what they would
                  have, poured for them each a tumbler nearly full of the "old Jamaica."
               They were in the act of gulping it down, and the colonel had just raised his third
                  glass to his lips, when a sound was heard on the stairs which led to the second
                  story, as of scuffling; an oath or two was uttered by the parties, whoever they
                  were; but before any one had time to rise and seek the cause of the commotion, the
                  door leading into the bar was burst open, and two figures rolled upon the
                  floor.
               One was Gilbert Forbes, in a state almost of nudity; the other was the young
                  soldier, his bedfellow; but his head was completely enveloped in a sheet, and only
                  his person was visible, as he writhed and tossed on the floor to which they had
                  rolled, in his frantic endeavors to free himself from the grasp of his brawny
                  opponent, and from the covering which enshrouded his head.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               GOVERNOR TRYON ON BOARD SHIP.
               IN an instant the young soldier was seized in the ready arms of the boatmen who
                  had entered the room in obedience to the signal from Colonel Fanning, and one of
                  them, taking his cravat, bound his arms securely behind. The sheet was then
                  removed from his head, and before he had time to utter a word, and scarcely to
                  think, another of the seamen had drawn a handkerchief into his mouth, and,
                  fastening it behind his neck, he was as thoroughly prevented from making any noise
                  as though a "regulation" gag had been put in his mouth.
               Being thus effectually secured, he was released from the arms of his captors, and
                  for an instant glared about him, his eyes actually flashing with rage. But he was
                  fairly trapped, and knowing that resistance against such odds, even if he was at
                  liberty to make any, would be sheer folly, he seated himself quietly in a chair,
                  or, rather, on the edge of a chair, for the position of his arms pinioned behind
                  him, prevented him from occupying the seat.
               "That's right, my fine fellow," said the colonel, looking ironically on his
                  helpless prisoner, "make the best of a bad bargain. You see what you get by
                  meddling with what don't concern you," and, seating himself again at the table, he
                  proceeded to finish the bottle which Corbie had placed before him.
               "Now, then, Corbie," he said, as he drained his last glass, "you know what to do.
                  That letter for the"——; but he checked himself suddenly, as if feeling that he had
                  no right to pronounce Margaret's name in such company. "Oh, the captain—he'll
                  manage that, I'll warrant. Forbes said he was going out to see Mathews to-day,
                  eh?" and he turned to the gunsmith, who was standing at the bar, quietly sipping
                  some liquor to which he had helped himself while the seamen were securing young
                  Adams.
               "Yes," he replied, "he said so; but I don't hardly think he got away. I saw him
                  just before sundown, as I was coming along in company with one of Small-wood's
                  officers and that captain from McDougal's regiment—the one as belongs to us."
               "Somebody must go out to-morrow. We expect the fleet almost every day, and we want
                  to get everything in readiness, so as to act as soon as Lord Howe arrives. But
                  what are we to do with this smart young man?" continued the colonel, turning to
                  Adams, who sat silent, of course, but almost bursting with rage and shame at being
                  so securely trapped in his own net.
               "A few days or weeks on board the "Duchess" won't hurt him, I'm thinking," replied Forbes, "He will
                  have excellent company there—there's lots of his kind aboard. His excellency, I
                  know, will treat him very well."
               "Come, then, my worthy rebel, will you go quietly, or shall my fellows here help
                  you? Take your choice."
               Adams knew well what sort of assistance he might expect to receive from the
                  sailors, so he nodded his head in acquiescence of the first part of the colonel's
                  proposition, and Corbie having poured out another glass apiece for the sailors,
                  which was tossed off with a bow and a scrape, the party started to leave the
                  house, two men taking each an arm of the young soldier and leading him forward,
                  the others following behind.
               In this order they reached the boat, a large man-of-war cutter, manned by eight
                  men; and Adams having been stowed in the stern-sheets, within reach of Colonel
                  Fanning's arm, it was shoved off silently, and the crew pulled away very gently at
                  first—so gently that even the dipping of the oars (which were muffled,) in the
                  water, was scarcely heard by the prisoner.
               "Now, my fine fellow," said the colonel, when the boat had reached nearly the
                  middle of the stream, until which time not a word had been spoken, "if you make
                  the least noise, or attempt to move, I shall have you pitched overboard as sure as
                  you are there, now. You understand, of course?"
               Adams nodded his head sullenly, for he had no other choice, and, at a sign from
                  the colonel, the men gave way in long, steady strokes, which sent the boat fairly
                  flying through the water. A hard pull of two hours brought them alongside the
                  "Duchess of Gordon," the flag-ship, on board which Governor Tryon had his
                  head-quarters, then lying off the present quarantine landing, and the hail of the
                  sentry having been duly answered by Colonel Fanning, the party ascended her side,
                  and the gag having been removed from Adams' mouth, and his arms set at liberty, he
                  was directed to follow them, an order with which he complied, but of course with
                  sullen reluctance. As he landed on the deck of the ship, Colonel Fanning, turning
                  to the officer of the watch, said: "Give this man in charge of the master-at-arms.
                  Let him be well treated, but well watched," and, striding aft, his arrival on
                  board was announced by the sentry at the cabin door, to the captain and Governor
                  Tryon, who were seated within.
               The governor was in the very highest spirits, for a vessel had arrived that very
                  day which had brought to him a letter from Lord Germaine, thanking him in the
                  warmest terms, in the name of his majesty, for the efficient aid he had rendered
                  to the cause, and hinting at the probability of much more substantial evidence of
                  the king's approbation.
               "Ah! colonel—returned, I see," he said, rising, his countenance flushed with the
                  wine he had been drinking ing—for he
                  was noted for his devotion to the best things of this life. "What news from the
                  infernal rebels? Are they ready to lay down their arms and submit to the clemency
                  of our gracious sovereign?"
               "Hardly yet, your excellency, I fear," said the colonel, with a quiet smile,
                  "though I learn from our trusty friends in the city, that a great disaffection
                  exists among the troops. Their pay is never punctually given, and their provisions
                  of the poorest kind, with a scarcity even of that, and they are kept at work day
                  and night. There are, I am sure, many hundreds who will join our forces as soon as
                  we effect a landing; at least, such is the information I gather from Forbes and
                  Corbie.
               "But how as to the other matter? What progress is making in that? You know,
                  colonel, that is my scheme, and I place great reliance upon the result, should we
                  succeed."
               "Several of the life-guards of Mr. Washington have joined us, and when a few more
                  are secured, the first favorable opportunity will be seized to carry your
                  excellency's plan into operation. If successful, that will crush the rebellion
                  without doubt, and your excellency will reap the well-earned reward of your
                  devotion to his majesty.
               "Aye, aye," replied the governor, half musingly, rubbing his hands together; for
                  visions of stars and orders were dancing before him, as the possibility of success
                  in his great undertaking crossed his mind. "Have you brought any dispatches?"
               "Yes, your excellency," replied the colonel, drawing from his pocket the packet of
                  papers delivered to him by Corbie. "I have brought a prisoner, on board, captain,"
                  he said, turning to Captain Chiffney, who, while this conversation had been going
                  on, was seated quietly sipping his wine.
               "A prisoner, colonel," said the governor, inquiringly.
               "Yes," replied the colonel, laughing; "he set a trap for us, and fell into it
                  himself," and he proceeded to narrate the circumstances connected with the capture
                  of young Adams.
               "I wonder how Corbie found it out?" said the general, musingly, but looking at
                  Colonel Fanning, as he spoke.
               "The notice came through Captain Blanchard, from some person in General Putnam's
                  house."
               "Margaret, by——!" profanely exclaimed the governor, bringing his fist on the
                  table, near which he was standing, with a force which made the glasses jingle.
                  "That girl is worth twenty common men; she deserves to be a duchess;" and turning
                  to the captain, he said: "Captain Chiffney, will you be pleased to order the
                  prisoner to be brought into the cabin, and meanwhile, I will read what our friends
                  have to say," and seating himself, he proceeded to open the package brought by
                  Colonel Fanning, saying, as he did so: "Colonel, your faithful and arduous services are fully
                  appreciated, and shall be reported to Lord Germaine. His majesty, I am confident,
                  will feel it a privilege to testify his appreciation of such a faithful servant;"
                  and Colonel Fanning, knowing that this meant "good night, I wish to be alone,"
                  bowed himself out of the cabin, and retired to the ward-room, among the
                  lieutenants, where a stateroom had been appropriated to him. While Governor Tryon,
                  the master spirit of the daring and most infamous plot which was ever conceived
                  among civilized men, engaged in honorable warfare, commenced a perusal of the
                  dispatches which the colonel had brought.
               They were from Matthews, the well-known tory mayor, who, through the assistance of
                  Corbie and Forbes, was the main and most reliable agent in forwarding the
                  desperate plot conceived by Governor Tryon, upon the result of which he relied for
                  a speedy termination of the war.
               There was, too, a letter from Captain Blanchard, containing important information
                  which he had gathered from every conceivable source, during his social intercourse
                  with the provincial officers, who, knowing him only as an officer on parole, and
                  believing him to be a gentleman, were less guarded in their conversation than they
                  would have been, had they known his true position.
               A postscript to this officer's letter, attracted specially the attention of the
                  governor. It was dated several hours after the main part was written, and spoke of
                  his meeting his brother, whom he had not seen for many years, and who, to his
                  sorrow, he learned, had enlisted with the rebels, and was an officer in Colonel
                  McDougal's regiment. The pain of the discovery, however, had been mitigated by a
                  meeting, as unexpected as it was pleasing, with Miss Moncrieffe, the daughter of
                  the well-known Major Moncrieffe, now with the troops on Staten Island; and he
                  added, that as the governor knew the young lady well, he need not say, that she
                  possessed shrewdness, discretion and intelligence to a very remarkable degree, and
                  as she was a most faithful and devoted subject, he was confident she would be
                  enabled to render infinite service to the cause of his gracious majesty. It was
                  owing to information imparted by her, the writer added, that they received the
                  warning, without which, all their well-laid plans might been defeated.
               "By Jove, she shall be a duchess!" exclaimed the governor, as he finished the
                  perusal of this letter, which had been written, of course, without the knowledge
                  of what had transpired at Corbie's on that evening, and evidently in the confident
                  assurance, that as Corbie had been forewarned, he was forearmed against any
                  treachery, and was prepared to disarm any suspicion.
               As he spoke, the cabin door was opened, and the sentry ushered in Seth Adams, who
                  took his station in front of the general, and who stood scowling sullenly,
                     alternately nately at the governor
                  and Captain Chiffney, until the sentry had retired.
               "Well, my young rebel," said the governor, as he proceeded leisurely to fold up
                  the letters which lay before him on the table.
               "I am no rebel, sir," said Adams, advancing close to the table, and looking
                  haughtily upon the treacherous governor.
               "Ah, indeed!" and he smiled sarcastically; "perhaps you will tell me what you call
                  yourself?"
               "A continental soldier, ready to fight against tyranny, oppression and wrong," he
                  replied, proudly.
               "Very prettily said," continued the governor; and as he spoke, Seth cast his eyes
                  upon the letter of Captain Blanchard, which lay open before him, and as his quick
                  eye caught the signature, he knew the writer at once, but nothing on his
                  countenance betrayed the emotion which this discovery, so important, had excited,
                  and already he was ruminating upon the possibility of making his escape, and
                  communicating the information just acquired, to the friends of the cause of
                  liberty within the city.
               "Well, it is likely to be some time before you will have an opportunity of
                  fighting against your king, I'm thinking," said Tryon, with a sneer.
               "He is not my king," haughtily and sharply said Adams, interrupting the governor,
                  "God forbid."
               "It is not polite, young man," said Governor Tryon, with an expression of the most
                  sarcastic politeness, "to interrupt a gentleman when he is speaking. I was about
                  to say, that as it would, in all human probability, be a long time before you
                  would have an opportunity of gratifying your propensity for fighting against his
                  most gracious majesty, suppose you enlist to fight for him. You know
                  what liberal terms he offers. Five guineas bounty, and two hundred acres of land
                  at the close of the war."
               "I think his most gracious majesty," replied Seth, with a tone quite as sarcastic
                  as the 
                     govereor's
                     governor's
                  , "had better keep his guineas for better purposes; and perhaps, it would
                  look a little more honest, if he was to own the land before he offers to give it
                  away."
               "You won't enlist, then?" asked the governor, his countenance turning black with
                  anger.
               "Not for all you expect to get for betraying those who trust in you," proudly
                  replied the undaunted youth, and as he spoke, the governor colored deeply, and
                  said, in angry tones:
               "You are a fool, and will live to repent your rebellious conduct toward the
                  kindest and best of masters. You can retire now, unless you change your mind, and
                  choose to give me some information as to what is going on in the rebel army."
               "I only know that orders have been issued to erect a gallows for Governor Tryon,
                  when they catch him," was the reply, delivered slowly by the undaunted soldier dier, accompanied by a gaze, which
                  brought the now enraged governor to his feet.
               "You insolent hound!" he exclaimed, "I'll have you flogged to death if you utter
                  another such impertinent, treasonable word."
               "That would suit you exactly. Go on, sir, and have me flogged. Do you think I
                  should love his most gracious majesty any the more for it? Try it, sir;" and the
                  bold youth looked undauntedly at the governor, who stood before him, actually
                  trembling with rage.
               He made no reply; but touching a bell on the table, said to the sentry who
                  entered: "Take this young rebel below, and see that he is properly secured."
               "You'd better have it well done, governor; for I shall escape if I can. I won't
                  give my word of honor, as that precious scoundrel has"—and he pointed to Captain
                  Blanchard's letter—"and then break it;" and as he spoke, he turned away, and
                  followed the sentry from the cabin, and was conducted below, where he was taken
                  charge of by the master-at-arms, and his hands and feet being securely manacled,
                  he was left in the "brig"*
                     to mourn his misfortunes.
               
                  
                  *The "brig," on board men-of-war, is a space near the foremast, allotted to
                     prisoners who are ordered in irons for any offence.
               
               "That young rebel knows too much, Captain Chiffney," said the governor, seating
                  himself, and wiping the perspiration from his ruddy face. "He must be closely
                  guarded, for if he should escape, all our plans would be foiled."
               "He shall be well guarded," replied the captain; and the governor having passed to
                  him the letters which he had received through Colonel Fanning, he commenced their
                  perusal, while the latter renewed his devotions to the bottle.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               THE BROTHERS IN COUNCIL.
               "EDMUND, my dear, dear brother," exclaimed the Royalist captain, as, still pushing
                  him off at arm's length, he peered lovingly in his brother's face—"how strange
                  that we should meet here, and under such circumstances. Captain Barnum!" and he
                  turned to the spot where the gallant Maryland captain had stood but a few seconds
                  before; but with true Southern chivalry and nobility, he had left the apartment
                  the moment he saw that the brothers, so long severed, had recognized each
                  other.
               "My dear Edmund," said Arthur Blanchard, turning again to his brother, "how is it
                  I find you here? You, the son of a gallant and honored officer, serving against
                  your king and country!"
               "Oh, never mind king and country now," said the younger of the twain, loosing
                  himself from his brother's grasp. "Tell me of home—dear father and mother—Lucy?—is
                  she alive?"
               "My dear boy," the elder brother replied, placing his hand on his shoulder as he
                  spoke, "we are alone in the world. Father, mother, Alice, and Lucy have passed
                  away, and I"——
               "And you are the elder brother, and of course the heir"——
               "Dear Edmund, don't speak of that; my only inheritance is my sword. Everything
                  which became mine when I felt I was alone in the world—for you know it is many
                  years since any tidings have been heard of you—was sold to purchase my commission
                  as a cornet. I have fought my way from a cornetcy to a captain's commission,
                  and—but you, Edmund"——
               "Oh, never mind me, Arthur. Father, mother, sisters—all dead," repeated the young
                  man, mournfully, as, withdrawing his hand from that of his brother, he placed it
                  across his eyes, to conceal the tears which moistened them.
               "But how is it, Edmund, that I find you here? You, the son of a brave and loyal
                  subject as ever lived, in arms against his sovereign. I ask and demand an
                  answer."
               "Ask me no questions, Arthur," responded the younger of the twain, with an
                  expression of sadness.
               "I must ask you—I will ask you—and, as your elder brother, I am entitled to an
                  answer. Do not let me blush in the reflection that a Blanchard has thus disgraced
                  his name."
               "Arthur, I am not what I seem to be; I have not forgotten my father nor his
                  loyalty; I have not forgotten that I
                  was born a subject of the best of sovereigns—yes, Arthur, I did forget it once.
                  Carried away by the enthusiasm which pervaded all classes, I suffered myself to be
                  drawn into"——
               "An act of rebellion," interrupted the Loyalist, sternly. "Edmund Blanchard, I did
                  not think I should live to blush for my own brother."
               "Oh, Arthur, do not reproach me; the sight of you, after the lapse of so many
                  years, brings back so many memories, I would not have them marred by harsh words
                  from you. Spare my feelings now, but"——
               "Feelings, Edmund! You are nearly thirty years of age, if I recollect aright; and
                  surely the son of Miles Blanchard ought, at that age, to know what is his duty to
                  his king and country."
               "Arthur"—and Edmund approached close to his elder brother, bending his head so as
                  to bring his mouth close to his brother's ear, and speaking in whispered tones—"I
                  am not what I seem to be."
               "As how?" coolly inquired the Royalist.
               "I am with you, for you, with all my heart and soul."
               "And still wearing that uniform?" and he pointed to the dress of the speaker, the
                  uniform of Colonel McDougal's regiment.
               "Yes, and still wearing this uniform, Arthur, my brother. I committed a great
                  wrong when I forgot my father and his people; and I committed a greater wrong when
                  I joined those who war against a gracious sovereign; but," and he looked
                  exultingly as he spoke, "I have repaired all those wrongs."
               The Royalist looked searchingly at his brother, but made no reply, and he
                  continued:
               "I have joined the king's party here," and he looked in his brother's face for
                  approbation.
               "Are you, then," he asked, scanning Edmund from head to foot, "the captain in
                  McDougal's regiment, who, it is asserted, has been won over to the king's
                  cause?"
               "I do not know, Arthur, what you mean."
               "Simply, that I know everything which transpires in the city, Edmund. I am more
                  than sorry that you ever so far forgot what was due to your name and family, as to
                  forsake the allegiance you owed to your rightful sovereign, but I am proud to
                  welcome you back to the cause of truth and justice. These rebellious scoundrels
                  must be crushed; and, Edmund, every one who has taken part in restoring to the
                  crown the colonies which are rightfully its dependencies, will not be forgotten.
                  You have made me very happy by what you have said, and now I will tell you"——
               But his sentence was interrupted by the entrance of Captain Barnum, who, thinking
                  that the brothers had enjoyed ample opportunity of exchanging fraternal greetings,
                  had opened the door, and addressing them, said:
               
               "Well, gentlemen, if you have finished your self-introduction, may I come in?"
               "By all means," exclaimed the brothers, in a breath; and the Royalist advancing
                  with extended hand, which was promptly grasped by the warm-hearted southerner,
                  said: "Captain Barnum, I hope I shall one day be enabled to thank you for the
                  delicate and courteous treatment I have received at your hands this day, and for
                  the kind and considerate manner in which you have brought me face to face with my
                  wayward brother."
               "Don't call him wayward," said Captain Barnum, smiling. "He is a perfect martinet.
                  You know his regiment does not bear the best reputation for discipline or
                  efficiency, and he has made himself terribly unpopular by trying to redeem its
                  character, so far as his company is concerned. He is a thorough disciplinarian, I
                  assure you. But come, now, drop all ceremony, and do the pair of you honor us by
                  dining with our mess, to-day. Remember, however," and he turned, with an arch
                  look, to either brother, "we don't allow any discussion of religious, political or
                  military subjects."
               "It seems to me," said the royalist captain, with a meaning smile, "that you
                  rather circumscribe your guests in their range of discussion."
               "Well, on these occasions we do, even between brothers. Come, what do you say;
                  will you dine with us?"
               "With all my heart," said the Royalist. "But for the kind courtesy of my
                  enemies"——
               "Not your enemies, captain," interrupted Captain Barnum; "we are only the enemies
                  to the principles you advocate and support. No one who knows you, could be
                     your enemy."
               The Royalist captain bowed low to this compliment, and the color on his bronzed
                  cheeks was heightened as he heard these words, for his conscience told him, that
                  he did not deserve such courtesy and such confidence from his host.
               "It will afford me great pleasure to accept your hospitality," replied the
                  Royalist Blanchard; and Captain Barnum who had noticed the flush which had come to
                  his face, and who thought that it had been called there by his words, which might
                  imply something of a taunt, as well as a compliment, hastily said:
               "My dear captain, don't mind what I say, for you must be conscious I had no
                  intention of wounding your feelings. Dine with us, to-day, and we will try and
                  make you forget the misfortunes which the chances of war have brought upon
                  you."
               "I ought hardly to call it a misfortune which has thrown me into such company, and
                  led to such an unexpected pleasure," and he turned to his younger brother, with a
                  look of deep affection.
               "Come, Edmund," he continued, addressing his brother, we will take a stroll, and
                  return in time to accept cept our kind
                  friend's hospitality," and with courteous greetings, the brothers took their
                  leave, strolling up Broadway, arm-in-arm.
               "Now let me finish the sentence which was interrupted by the entrance of Captain
                  Barnum. I was going to tell you that I have been in direct communication with his
                  excellency, Governor Tryon, and his honor, our loyal Mayor Matthews, ever since I
                  arrived in the city. I must see Matthews to-day, or send word to him, by some
                  means. Everything goes on to our heart's content, and there is every reason to
                  believe that thousands will eagerly join our forces as soon as a landing has been
                  effected; and if the other part of the plot, now in progress from day-to-day, is
                  carried to consummation, the war will be ended before six weeks are over."
               "The other part of the plot!" echoed the younger of the twain, looking at his
                  brother with an expression of surprise.
               "Yes, Edmund, the other part which, if carried to successful consummation, will
                  stem this torrent of rebellion, terminate the war at once, bring these rebellious
                  Colonies again to their allegiance, and restore them to their rightful sovereign.
                  It is not ripe enough yet even for you to know, Edmund; but, if as you say, you
                  are heart and soul with us, you will not hesitate to lend your aid if you should
                  be called upon."
               "Anything to prove my loyalty, and make amends for having forgotten my name and my
                  duty."
               "Edmund, you can call on Miss Moncrieffe with less suspicion than myself, as you
                  belong to the other side," and he smiled meaningly.
               "What, that young girl who has turned the head of every officer who saw her last
                  night? I have heard nothing this morning but Miss Moncrieffe, and as for Shee's
                  boys, I don't know but there will be fighting yet among them about her."
               "So much the better. You don't know her?"
               "I have never seen her; but must confess my curiosity is excited concerning her.
                  Is she so very beautiful?"
               "Very beautiful, very fascinating, and very witty; but above all, shrewd and
                  observing, far beyond her years. Why, it was only this morning she gave me
                  information that Corbie's house was to be visited tonight by a provincial in
                  disguise, to discover what was going on. I have caused him to be put on his guard,
                  though there won't be much made of it, I'm thinking."
               "How, in the name of goodness, did she find it out?"
               "Oh, she is an inmate of General Putnam's family—a general favorite—and, being
                  unsuspected, everything is spoken of before her with perfect freedom. Tomorrow I
                  will introduce her to you, and let her know how you stand affected. Now, Edmund, remember—in
                  company, be more than guarded; for the world, don't let a breath of suspicion
                  attach to either of us. Now let us talk of old times," and the conversation was
                  turned into topics of home, parents, friends, and relatives, and thus the time was
                  beguiled until the approach of the hour which was fixed for their dinner at
                  Captain Barnum's quarters.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               MARGARET AND HER LOVER AT HOME.
               ON the morning after the call made by Captain Blanchard on Margaret, and which had
                  led to such important results, so far at least as the safety of those who were
                  conspiring against the provincials was concerned, Major Burr was seated in the
                  apartment set apart by General Putnam for the transaction of all official business
                  and the reception of reports.
               His chair was drawn up before a large circular table, filled with letters,
                  reports, and a miscellaneous collection of documents, from an application from
                  some loyalist for permission to cross the river to Long Island, to a complaint
                  (anonymous of course) against some one of the same stamp for some offence, either
                  by word or deed, against the strict orders promulgated by the bluff old general,
                  on receiving command of the city during the absence of General Washington. It was
                  his duty to open these—to note their contents on their backs (when worthy such
                  attention), and to receive and execute the orders of the general respecting them.
                  He knew his commander so well, he rarely waited for instructions; but, in most
                  instances, had his replies prepared
                  before he made his appearance, and they were invariably signed after the briefest
                  possible glance at their contents; such was the general's confidence in the
                  activity, integrity, and capability of his youthful aid.
               He was about commencing the duties of the morning, when a gentle tap at the door
                  aroused him, and in answer to his gruff "Come in," uttered as if he was ordering a
                  charge of infantry, it was opened very softly, and a voice, whose tones thrilled
                  through every fibre of his frame, uttered quietly, "May I come in?"
               Springing from his seat as those dear and familiar tones met his ear, he advanced
                  toward the door, and, grasping the extended hand of the intruder, led her to a
                  seat at the table.
               It was Margaret, who, throwing herself languidly and half pettishly into a chair,
                  said: "I really beg pardon, Major Burr; but"——and here she paused as she met his
                  glance, for it seemed to say:
               "We are alone, and why do you call me Major Burr?"
               "Aaron," she said, stretching her hand across the table, "I do beg your pardon—I
                  did not mean to disturb you; but I was so very lonesome. Cousin Belle is in the
                  kitchen, Cousin Martha is somewhere else, and Lady Putnam is knitting. I can't
                  spin—I won't knit, and so I am here. May I stay?"
               "Dear Margaret," replied the young soldier, his very soul beaming in his eyes,
                  and, seizing the extended hand of his beautiful and loved visitor—"how can you
                  ask? Stay here—only stay forever, and"——
               "There, Aaron," she interrupted, "that will do for Colonel Shee or his gallant
                  officers. I don't want such language as that from you."
               "Then stay as long as you choose, dear Margaret, and make me happy."
               "I will do anything to make you happy, Aaron, and so I will stay," and,
                  withdrawing her hand—not, however, until it had been awfully squeezed and several
                  kisses imprinted upon it—she continued: "but you must not be quite so
                  ceremonious."
               "Well, I won't," he replied, and rising, as if for the purpose of searching for
                  some papers, he approached her, and leaning over, imprinted a kiss upon her snowy
                  brow, and, encouraged by her passiveness, for she made no resistance to him, a
                  second was implanted directly on her tempting lips.
               "There, that will do, Aaron," she said, pushing him gently away, "I came here to
                  work—may I help you?"
               "Oh, yes, sit here and look at me; I want no better help than that. But Margaret,
                  if you really wish to stay here, I must impose one condition on you. Look here,"
                  and he pointed to a mass of papers strewed over the table, "these must all be
                  opened and attended to before the
                  general comes, and if I am to do it, you must maintain profound silence."
               "Oh, very well," she said, with a mischievous pout, which more than half tempted
                  the young aid to repeat his salutations to her lips, "I suppose you think I can't
                  be silent. Come, sir, give me some paper and lend me one of your pens. I can amuse
                  myself if I can't entertain you."
               "You are a tormenting little vixen," said the major, as he pushed the paper toward
                  her, and tendered to her a pen, whose nib he had just clipped, for steel pens were
                  then unknown.
               Margaret made no reply, but commenced writing, or seeming to write, while Major
                  Burr, with a tremendous effort, strove to forget her presence, and resumed the
                  duties which her entrance had interrupted.
               He was soon, apparently, immersed in an examination of a mass of papers which lay
                  before him, while Margaret, having appropriated the paper placed before her, was
                  soon as apparently engrossed in the letter which she proposed to write.
               For a few moments, either pen wandered over the paper with wonderful rapidity; at
                  length, there seemed to be a pause, by mutual consent; the motions of the pens
                  grew less rapid; then they ceased entirely, and as each raised their eyes to
                  discover the cause of this remarkable unanimity of purpose, their glances
                  encountered each other.
               Margaret threw down her pen, with a merry, hearty laugh, which fairly rang through
                  the room; indeed, it was so loud and so earnest, Major Burr, fearing she would
                  arouse the household, arose, and approaching her, stopped her mouth with his own,
                  a proceeding against which she offered no resistance; probably, because she had
                  been so weakened by her laughter, she was incapable of any.
               "Dear Margaret," said the young soldier, as he stood by her side, one of her hands
                  clasped in his own, gazing into her beautiful face with an expression of the most
                  intense love, "how I do love you!"
               "I need not say how I love you, Aaron," she said, returning his gaze with a warmth
                  equal to his own; "but oh, what will come of it?" and burying her face in her
                  hands, she gave way to thoughts that seemed to overpower her.
               "Dear, darling, what"——but he had no time to finish his sentence, for well-known
                  steps ascending the stairs which led to the office, warned him of the approach of
                  General Putnam, and hastily snatching another kiss, he sprang back to his seat,
                  and commenced looking over the mass of papers before him, while Margaret, brushing
                  away a tear which had gathered in her eye, returned to her pen, and before the
                  door was opened, was again deeply engrossed in the composition of her letter, as
                  was Major Burr in the perusal of the documents which it was his duty to
                  overlook.
               
               "Young lady," said the bluff old general, as he entered the room, and saw the
                  posture of affairs, "how long since you have been my aid?"
               "Ever since you have been my grandpa," she replied, rising, and approaching him,
                  with extended hand, which, in very spite of himself, he took. "Fact is, grandpa,"
                  she continued, with a bewitching smile, "I can't spin, and I won't knit, so I came
                  down here, and Major Burr was so kind as to let me sit at his table and write a
                  few letters, I was so lonesome upstairs."
               "Well, well," he said, smilingly, though he tried to look dignified and stern,
                  "write away; there, sit down," he added.
               Margaret thanked him with a graceful courtesy, and a smile whose power was almost
                  irresistible.
               "Now, major, what is the report from Corbie's?" he added, as Margaret, seating
                  herself, resumed her pen.
               "I declare," replied the aid, pulling out his watch, "it's ten o'clock. I ordered
                  Adams to report by nine, and he is a man on whom I can rely, as I can upon
                  myself."
               "Not here yet, Major Burr!" continued the general, with military sternness. "Nine
                  o'clock means nine o'clock, sir. Why has he not been here, if you ordered him to
                  report at that hour?'
               "I will send and ascertain at once, sir;" and without further remark, he went to
                  the door, and summoning an orderly, directed him to have word sent to Badlam's
                  Battery, where he was stationed, for Seth Adams to report himself immediately, at
                  head-quarters.
               General Putnam appeared to be very much vexed at the failure of the man to report
                  at the time specified, and seating himself, commenced a series of characteristic
                  grumblings, to which Major Burr, thoroughly familiar with his character and
                  humors, replied only by a quiet smile, as he kept on overlooking the papers before
                  him.
               "There, general," he said, handing another letter to his general, "that is in the
                  same hand-writing as the one we received a few days ago."
               "Oh, yes," replied the old soldier, glancing at the letter, and throwing it down
                  on the table, so that it lay directly in front of Margaret, who, apparently
                  without raising her eyes from her own letter, perused its contents. The letter was
                  brief, and evidently written in a disguised hand, and ran as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I have warned you before—I warn you again. There are spies about, of
                              whom you little dream. Trust no one, but watch for yourself.
                           
                              A FRIEND TO THE TRUE CAUSE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "How are the works going on, major?" he said, apparently forgetting the trifling
                  annoyance which had aroused his ire a few moments before.
               "Oh, bravely, sir, bravely. The line is almost completed on both sides of the
                  island, and a few days more of such work will render a landing impossible, for I
                     believe lieve no point is left
                  unguarded. The works on Richmond Hill have not been pushed forward so rapidly as
                  the others nearer the river, as Colonel Putnam did not deem them to be of so much
                  immediate importance."
               "Well, major, get through those papers as soon as possible, and then ride out to
                  the Hill, and order those works completed immediately; General Washington will
                  return from Philadelphia in a few days, and I wish to have everything completed
                  before he arrives. I am going now to General Mifflin's quarters. There is to be a
                  council at eleven o'clock, and when I return, I shall hope to receive the report
                  of your man. Good day, major—good morning, Miss Aid," he added, turning to
                  Margaret, who appeared to be so deeply engrossed in her writing, as not to notice
                  his remark, and it was therefore repeated in louder tones: "Good morning, Miss
                  Aid; I think you had better retire, for I am afraid the major won't accomplish
                  much if you remain here."
               "Do I disturb you, Major Burr?" she asked with a mischievous glance, which he
                  alone-caught and interpreted.
               "Not at all, so long as you keep your promise not to talk."
               "Not to talk!" said the old general, with a loud guffaw; "a girl not talk! Well,
                  major, if you can make her do that, I give up to you."
               "Good morning, grandpa," said Margaret, demurely, rising, and making a low
                  courtesy.
               "Major, you had better turn that girl out of the room," said the general,
                  good-naturedly, as he strode toward the door. "I shall be back between twelve and
                  one o'clock," and as the door closed upon the retreating form, Margaret and the
                  young aid exchanged glances full of meaning, for they said, as looks would say, "I
                  am glad we are alone again."
               "Come, Aaron, go on with your work, and don't disturb me again," said Margaret,
                  maliciously, resuming her pen, and bending again to her task. "Remember what the
                  general said, and we will see whose fault it is if the work is not done."
               Major Burr looked for an instant at his tormentress, but her head was bent over
                  her paper, and he could not catch her eyes. For a moment or two he indulged in
                  this profitless occupation, then, with a deep sigh, took up a letter which lay
                  nearest to him, and opened it mechanically.
               Perhaps the contents were very interesting; perhaps he was engrossed in his own
                  thoughts; perhaps anything the reader chooses; but before he was aware of it, a
                  pair of soft arms were around his neck, and a pair of very soft lips were pressed
                  on his forehead; and as he felt this touch, he dropped his pen as if struck by an
                  electric shock, and turning his face upward, met the ardent, passionate, loving
                  gaze of Margaret.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE FIRST TEMPTATION.
               "YOU love me, Aaron?" she murmured, as she suffered his arms to clasp her waist,
                  and met his burning glances fixed upon her.
               "Better than my life—my soul—my all."
               "Oh, Aaron," murmured Margaret, and she seated herself, while her eyes were half
                  filled with tears, "where is this to end?"
               "End, Margaret? Why, darling, it has not begun yet," he replied, with a bright,
                  happy smile.
               "Oh, yes; but, Aaron, I have thought very much since yesterday—yes, ever since I
                  came here—where is this to end?"
               "I really don't know what you mean, Margaret," said the young soldier, leaning
                  back in his chair, and gazing at his companion in amazement. "Are you already
                  sorry for what you have said or heard?"
               "Oh, no, no—not sorry, Aaron," she hastily interrupted, bending upon him a look
                  full of love. "But think (for we must think), why did we ever meet?
                  Why did I ever act and speak as I have done? Oh, Aaron, what must you think of
                  me—what must I—what ought I to think of myself?"
               "Surely, Miss Moncrieffe," said Major Burr, rising, with an appearance of coolness
                  in his manner. But Margaret did not permit him to finish his sentence, for
                  springing forward, she threw herself upon his neck, and murmured:
               "Dear Aaron, don't speak so coldly." He was vanquished a second time. "No, Aaron,
                  I only feared for the future. Think—you are engaged against those with whom I am
                  connected by every tie of honor, duty, and affection. How can it be that we ever
                  shall be happy under such circumstances?"
               "Would not my Margaret make any sacrifice for him she loves?"
               "I would consider nothing a sacrifice, Aaron. But how can it be? My family are
                  proud, haughty, and wealthy, and they would disown and spurn me if I should unite
                  myself with one of a nation whom they have learned to look on as traitors and
                  rebels. Nay, Aaron, do not frown on me so, for it is not Margaret who says it. I
                  am ready to say, and thus prove my sincerity, 'thy home shall be my home, and thy
                  God my God.'"
               "Thanks, thanks, my dearest Margaret," replied the impassioned lover, gazing with
                  enamored looks upon the beautiful and animated girl who stood before him. "I trust
                  not to demand any such sacrifice of you, for this unnatural war cannot endure much longer. I
                  feel confident in the success of our arms, and though your family may be proud,
                  haughty, and wealthy, I shall be enabled to place you in a position which will
                  make you the equal of any in this country."
               "I ask no position higher than to be yours—nothing but your love and your presence
                  to make me supremely happy. Look you, Aaron," and she gazed at her lover with an
                  earnestness which fairly fascinated him, "situated as we are now, one of us must
                  make a great sacrifice, or we must part."
               "Part, Margaret!" and the young aid started; "part. And what does this sudden
                  change portend?"
               "Do not say change, Aaron. I cannot change," and she looked half-sadly, half
                  lovingly at him. "I cannot change. I am yours, and only yours; do with me as you
                  please. But listen to me," and approaching him, she lowered her voice almost to a
                  whisper, "I am rich, highly connected, and, through my family, possess boundless
                  influence, and what, Aaron, have you?"
               "A patrimony which I am spending freely in my country's cause my sword, and my
                  determination to make for myself a name and fame of which even you shall be
                  proud."
               "In neither can you fail. But listen, Aaron; do not reproach me if I venture to
                  speak as my heart dictates. I am young—very young for the sad experiences through
                  which I have passed; but I am old enough to know my own feelings, though perhaps
                  not old enough to control my impulses. You possess every thought and feeling which
                  I am capable of giving; there is no sacrifice on earth I am not ready to make, to
                  prove my love for you, if proof be needed. But, Aaron, how are you placed? You,
                  siding with a cause which you believe to be right—nay, which you feel to be
                  right," she added, seeing a cloud gather on the young soldier's brow, "and the
                  success of that cause is very far from being certain, for with undisciplined
                  troops—with men deprived even of their promised pay (you see I know all these
                  things), poorly fed, and worse clad—men who have enlisted only because every other
                  means of employment was debarred them"——
               "Margaret, stay—you wrong my countrymen. Poorly fed, worse clad, and compelled to
                  endure unlooked-for hardships, as they are and have been, they are animated by a
                  feeling which makes them superior to the hirelings who compose the arms of your
                  countrymen. Each man has a stake in this issue, and each man is prepared to stand
                  or fall by the result of the conflict in which we are engaged."
               "And you, Aaron?"
               "Me—oh, well, I don't think of myself. My mistress is glory. I mean to make a
                  name—to leave my mark on the page of history—and if I can do that, I shall depart
                  satisfied."
               
               "And that to me, Aaron," said Margaret, with tearful eyes, as she gazed upon the
                  young enthusiast before her, "that to me, who have said that there is nothing I
                  could deem a sacrifice if I could serve you. But this contest, I am confident,
                  will prove fruitless. So far as your countrymen are concerned, there can only be
                  one termination to it. England, with men and money at her command to an unlimited
                  extent, will, if needed, overrun this country with troops—brave, loyal,
                  disciplined troops. Within two months, this very city will be in our possession,
                  and where will you be then?"
               "Margaret, you talk wildly," said the major, affecting an offended air.
               "I do not talk wildly, Aaron; and even while you say so, you do not believe it. I
                  know more, much more than you think I do; but I know nothing half so precious as
                  that you love me," and approaching, she took his unresisting hand.
               "Margaret—Margaret Moncrieffe," exclaimed Major Burr, looking at her as if he
                  would read her very soul, "what do you mean?—what do your words import?"
               "What I would, as I am able to do, prove my love for you. I mean that if you have
                  the courage to make a small sacrifice for me, I am prepared to make a greater one
                  for you."
               "I do not understand you, Margaret," said the major, abstractedly, looking at her
                  with an expression of inquiry.
               "I must give up the certainty of wealth, rank, station, and the high position to
                  which I was born, and to which I can raise you, or you must give up your
                  prospects, founded upon the possible success of the rebellion," she continued, as
                  she saw the brow of the young aid darkened by a frown; "I know no other word for
                  it. You hope for a bright future. I can make ours
                     certain. My ancestors have fought for their king and country from
                  the days of the glorious Black Prince, and I have inherited their loyalty and
                  spirit. Come, Aaron, don't make me choose," and approaching, she leaned on his
                  shoulder, looking him affectionately in the face. "I can do all I say," she
                  continued, in a low, soft, winning tone. "You hope to accomplish all you desire;
                  if I must choose, my choice is already made, and you know it. But oh, Aaron! if
                  you do love me, let me prove my love for you, and add to my happiness by the
                  consciousness that I have served you."
               "What do you mean, Margaret?" exclaimed the major, holding her off at arm's
                  length. "In God's name, what do you mean? I dare not understand you."
               "Only this, Aaron," she replied calmly, "that one of us must yield; for, without a
                  concession on either side, we must part. I have told you what you well know now,
                  dear Aaron, that I am ready to make it
                  on my part—but I do implore you to pause before you compel me to a step which you
                  may hereafter repent—I love you with all the strength and fervor of a woman's
                  first love, and"——
               "I worship you, Margaret," exclaimed the young soldier, overpowered by her
                  enthusiasm, and carried away by his passionate devotion to this singular and
                  fascinating being, with whom he had been so strangely brought in contact. "Do with
                  me as you please, only love me and be mine."
               "I do love you, and will be only yours, Aaron," replied Margaret, and a glance of
                  mingled love and triumph shot from her eyes as she spoke. "Colonel
                  Burr, there is my hand—you know you have my heart," and she extended to him that
                  hand, for the possession of which he had declared himself ready to sacrifice honor
                  and duty.
               "Colonel Burr!" he echoed.
               "Yes," said Margaret, with a meaning smile, "you shall see that, young and
                  reckless as I appear to be, I have not spoken without a purpose. But mark you,
                  Aaron, I shall ask no aid, direct or indirect, from you. I shall neither do nor
                  say anything which may by any possibility, however remote, compromise you. I say
                  only this, that in three days, or four at the furthest, I will prove to you that I
                  can accomplish all I have said. Again I say, COLONEL BURR, there is my hand—will
                  you take it on these conditions?"
               "There are no conditions on earth to which I would not submit to possess it," he
                  said, with enthusiasm, grasping her proffered hand and pressing it to his
                  heart.
               "Now, then, we understand each other," said Margaret, with a meaning look.
               "I am yours; do with me as you please," he replied, with an earnestness and warmth
                  which showed how truly every thought and feeling had been brought into subjection
                  by his fair enchantress.
               "In four days at the furthest, Colonel Burr," she repeated significantly, "you
                  shall see that I have made no promises which I cannot fulfill."
               "But Margaret, how can I remain here?—here in the very family circle of my good
                  old general; hearing everything—seeing everything—knowing everything?"
               "But saying nothing and doing nothing, Aaron: No, no—I respect your feelings—nay,
                  I honor your love for me too much for that; for I feel you have granted to that
                  love for me, what nothing else on earth could have wrung from you. No, be as you
                  are—do as you are doing—and, by the boundless love I bear to you, Aaron, no slur
                  shall ever come upon your name. Can you not trust me?"
               "With my very soul, Margaret," replied the young major, warmly; and he was about
                  to prove the intensity of his assertion by something more palpable than words, when the sounds of heavy
                  footsteps ascending the stairs, startled the happy pair, and each sprang to the
                  seat from which they had arisen, and, in an instant, were as deeply engrossed,
                  seemingly, in their respective occupations as they had been on the departure of
                  General Putnam.
               The loud rap at the door was answered by the major, and the orderly in waiting
                  entering, with the customary military salute, announced the return of the man who
                  had been dispatched to inquire into the cause of the non-appearance of Seth Adams
                  at the hour appointed.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               MAJOR BURR ENSLAVED.
               "WELL, what is it?" queried the major, with an air of impatience, turning from the
                  table at which he was seated, toward the person whose entrance had been announced,
                  and who proved to be a sergeant from the Badlam barracks, to which Adams was
                  attached.
               "Adams did not return last night, and has not been to the quarters this morning
                  sir."
               "Not returned to his quarters?" said Major Burr, rising from his seat and
                  confronting the soldier.
               "No, sir," he replied, with another military salute, "and here's a letter from
                  Major Gibbs."
               "What, of the Life-guards?"
               "Yes, sir. He gave it to me himself, and told me to be sure that you got it."
               "Wait, then, until I see what this means;" and the young aid, forgetting in the
                  moment everything save the impulses of duty, hastily tore open the missive which
                  the sergeant had handed to him, and which he perused with eager rapidity, fairly
                  devouring its contents.
               "It's all right, sergeant; I have no time to reply now to Major Gibbs. Say that I will see him as soon as
                  General Putnam returns from the council;" and the sergeant, with a third salute,
                  withdrew.
               "Now, what on earth does this mean?" he said, soliloquizing, and forgetting the
                  presence of Margaret. "I know Seth as well as I know myself, and he never could
                  prove false. By Heavens! there has been some foul play here, and I will find it
                  out, or——O, Margaret, I beg your pardon, I quite forgot"——
               "That there was such a person in existence, as Margaret," she said, with a sad
                  smile, 
                     interrrupting
                     interrupting
                   him. "I don't blame you, Major Burr, only spare me; I am only a girl—a
                  fond, foolish girl—but I throw myself upon your honor, as a soldier and a
                  gentleman."
               "Margaret, what do you mean? What have I said, what done, that you should so
                  reproach me? What do you wish me to do?"
               "Nothing, Major Burr, but to forget those words you spoke a few minutes since, and
                  in forgetting them, cease to remember me."
               "Oh, Margaret! dear, dear Margaret, forgive me. I did not know what I was saying.
                  I know not what I have said to pain or wound you. Tell me, Margaret, what I have
                  done; for on my life I do not know? What earthly connection can you have in this
                  matter?" and he pointed to the letter of Major Gibbs, which he still held in his
                  hand.
               "Aaron Burr," said Margaret, and as she spoke, she advanced toward him and placed
                  her fair, white hand upon his arm, "it was but a few moments since, and you
                  promised—do you remember what?"
               "To be yours, and yours, only, and forever."
               "And did I not make a promise, too?"
               "You?" he said, earnestly.
               "Even I. Did I not say, that in nothing, by word or deed, should you be
                  compromised by me?"
               "I remember that," he said, thoughtfully.
               "Then let me keep my word; and do you be a man as you are a soldier. Once for all,
                  Aaron Burr, is it me, or is it"——
               "Oh, do not ask that, Margaret. Who, what on earth is it? What can it be but you,
                  and you only? Dear Margaret forgive me, if I have said aught to wound your
                  feelings."
               "You have not, Aaron," and she suffered him to retain the hand which he had
                  grasped as he spoke. "But your interest for that man, and the cause in which he
                  has engaged, seemed so much stronger than your love for me, my faith in your
                  pledges began to waver."
               "Margaret, you speak in riddles; what do you mean?" and as he spoke, Major Burr
                  dropped her hand, and facing her, looked steadily in her eye.
               "Nothing, Major Burr," she said, with a cold, majestic air. "I shall keep my
                  pledge, though you may desire to forget yours."
               "Even now, I know not what you mean. Tell me, Margaret, for Heaven's sake, tell me, and do not
                  let me do or say anything which may make you think less of me."
               "Ask no questions, Aaron, save those from whom you have the right to ask them. If
                  you repeat the words you spoke but just now, if you believe Margaret Moncrieffe is
                  unable to fulfill the pledge she has made, if in saluting you as Colonel Burr,
                  she"——
               "Ah, I see. I did forget; Margaret forgive me. My position is so new, so strange,
                  so perfectly marvellous even to myself, I scarcely know what I say or do. The
                  force of habit, you know, Margaret," and he smiled faintly, as he spoke, "is very
                  strong."
               "With me, the power of love is stronger," she replied, with something of pride in
                  her tones. "You have once made your choice; do you wish to abide by it?"
               "Margaret, and Margaret, only," enthusiastically replied the young soldier, again
                  completely bewildered.
               "Then ask no questions. Pursue your own investigations and learn what you
                  can."
               "I shall gladly take lessons from you."
               "Not very gladly, Aaron," she said, sadly.
               "Oh, do not reproach me. Remember, Margaret, how brief has been"——
               "Our intercourse," she interrupted; "and would you reproach me with that? Would
                  you reproach me because I have said that there was nothing on earth I would not
                  sacrifice to prove, if proof was needed, my love for you? Oh, Aaron! you either do
                  not know yourself, or you do not know me."
               "Margaret, what shall I do?"
               "Have I not said but now, do nothing so far as I am concerned? You have your
                  report there; act upon it. Is it necessary that I should know your official
                  business, even if I am Miss Aid?" and she quoted, with an arch smile, the
                  general's appellation.
               "I see, I see," said the major, half musingly. "Margaret, I yield the palm to you.
                  Teach me, for I will gladly learn from you."
               "And for the future?"
               "Count me yours, and yours only. Your cause is mine—your quarrel mine. Only,
                  Margaret," and he spoke despondingly, "I would not have it known here how I have
                  fallen."
               "Fallen, Aaron! Risen, rather—risen say," and she stood erect before him a very
                  Pythoness. "Risen, I say, Aaron; for your elevation is as sure as that of the
                  daily sun, and it will be as glorious," and, as she spoke, she threw herself into
                  his arms with a sob of joy. "Now, Aaron," she continued, rising from his embrace,
                  "ask me no questions and I shall have nothing to answer hereafter. When I fulfill
                  my pledge to you, then I shall ask you to think and act with me. Until then, we
                  know nothing of each other's movements.
                  Oh, yes, Aaron," she added, as she saw a shade of sadness come over his face, "one
                  thing we do know—one thing—whatever fate may bring for us, we can never forget our
                  love."
               "Never, Margaret—never; and I can give no better proof of mine than I have done by
                  sacrificing honor, duty, morality, and all, to love—I do so love you, Margaret,"
                  he added, with an expression amounting to intensity of earnestness.
               "And I do know and feel it," she responded.
               "And pray, Miss Moncrieffe, what may that be which you know and feel," inquired
                  General Putnam, who, unheard and unannounced, had entered the room while Margaret
                  and the major were thus earnestly conversing, but had only caught her last
                  words.
               "I was saying how deeply I should feel the loss of my daily exercise, grandpa,"
                  she said, turning to him with a countenance as free from emotion as that of a
                  marble statue. "Major Burr was saying he did not think I ought to ride so much
                  about the works, for fear I should make some improper use of the privilege,
                  and"——
               "Major Burr is a very cautious officer," replied the general, sententiously, at
                  the same time taking a huge pinch of snuff. "If he will not trust you I will, and
                  assume the responsibility of any mischief you may do except among our
                  officers."
               "Thank you, grandpa," and she turned, with a meaning look, to the young aid, who
                  by this time was again poring over his files of documents.
               "May I go now?"
               "Go now—yes, go when you choose and where you choose, and stay as long as you
                  choose; but mark you, Miss Impudence"——
               "Margaret, sir, is my name," she said, very demurely, with a low courtesy.
               "Well, Miss Impudence Margaret, if I catch you at any capers, I'll hang you as
                  high as Haman."
               "As high as who, grandpa?" she asked, with an arch smile; and as she saw a cloud
                  gathering on the old general's brow, she hurried from the room, and in less than
                  five minutes was cantering through Broadway, mounted on Selim, who pranced and
                  curvetted, as if proud of his lovely burden.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               MARGARET AND THE ROYALIST CAPTAIN.
               AS she was riding along, attracting the attention of all beholders, as well by her
                  splendid horsemanship as by the ease and grace with which she managed the
                  impatient Selim, she perceived, at some distance ahead, the well-remembered form
                  and face of Captain Blanchard, walking arm-in-arm with an officer in the
                  Provincial uniform, and reining in the impatient Selim, she moved along slowly
                  until they met, when, checking her horse so suddenly that he almost went on his
                  haunches, Captain Blanchard advanced toward her, and, with a courteous salute,
                  inquired how it chanced that she was out alone.
               "Because I hoped to meet you, captain," she said, meaningly.
               "It is a fortunate meeting," he said; "for I was on the road to pay you a call. I
                  have something for you."
               "From his Excellency the Governor?" she inquired, eagerly.
               "Even so, Miss Margaret," and, looking cautiously around, to see whether he was
                  observed or not, he hurriedly thrust into her hand a letter which he had crumpled
                  into the smallest possible space, and which Margaret as quickly thrust into the
                  pocket of her riding-dress, but without interrupting the conversation; for she
                  continued, in unchanged tones: "Who is your friend who seems to watch your
                  movements so intently?" and she eyed the young Continental officer with a
                  scrutinizing glance.
               "You will be surprised when I introduce him to you, and more surprised when I tell
                  you that he is one of us."
               "Indeed!" she exclaimed, her countenance lighting with an expression of pleasure;
                  for she had recognized the uniform of McDougal's corps as she again fastened her
                  gaze upon the officer, who stood there, carelessly kicking his heels on the
                  pavement, as if quite unconscious of the presence of any parties, but stealing
                  occasional glances of admiration at the beautiful creature who had burst so
                  suddenly on his sight.
               "You have heard, I suppose, for you seem to learn everything, that a captain in
                  McDougal's regiment has joined the cause of his majesty?"
               Margaret nodded assent, but made no verbal reply.
               "Edmund," he said, turning to his brother, for it was he who was his companion,
                  and at the word the young Provincial advanced with unwonted alacrity.
               "Miss Moncrieffe, Captain Blanchard, my younger brother."
               
               "Your brother, Captain Blanchard!" exclaimed Margaret, turning from one to the
                  other, with looks of unrestrained amazement.
               "My only living brother, and only relative on earth, Miss Margaret," replied
                  Arthur, with a low bow.
               "I am truly glad to make your acquaintance, captain," she said, extending her hand
                  cordially, "the more so that I find in you the brother of my father's dearest
                  friend; and I am doubly glad to learn from your brother that"——
               "Hush, Miss Margaret," said the Royalist, "there are persons turning that corner
                  who may overhear our conversation. You may repose as much confidence in him as you
                  would in myself. It will be much more easy to communicate through him than through
                  me, and everything intrusted to him will reach the proper quarter. I vouch for his
                  sincerity and truth."
               Margaret gazed earnestly into the face of the young Provincial, now all aglow at
                  finding himself so suddenly placed on terms of confidential intercourse with one
                  of whom he had heard so much, and whose appearance, he felt, fully justified the
                  lavish encomiums passed upon her.
               "Captain," and she addressed the Royalist, "I have no time or opportunity to write
                  to-day, and if I had I might not be able to dispatch it. Do you write to Governor
                  Tryon, and say that I desire him to send to me—mind, to me, captain—a
                  colonel's commission in blank."
               The Royalist captain looked astounded at this request, while the Provincial
                  officer, who construed her words at once as an intention to secure to him a reward
                  for his treason, could scarcely conceal the smile of gratification and triumph,
                  which her words had called to his face.
               Margaret noticed the expression, and the slightest possible curl of contempt was
                  perceptible on her pretty mouth; but it passed as quickly as it had come, and she
                  continued:
               "Yes, a colonel's commission—write that. He must not deny me—I scarcely think he
                  will. Tell him that orders were given to-day to strengthen the defences in the
                  vicinity of Richmond Hill, and that General Washington is expected to return in a
                  few days. What was done with that man who was sent to Corbie's last night?"
               "I really don't know. The letter you have was brought to me this morning by a
                  messenger from Corbie, but he said nothing to me of anything having occurred last
                  night."
               "Something has evidently gone wrong, I am afraid. The man who was sent there, and
                  who was to have reported this morning, has not been seen since, and there will be
                  much trouble about it, for he was a great favorite; so tell any one concerned to
                  be on his guard. Mind, captain, don't
                  fail to write by the first opportunity for that commission," and as she spoke, she
                  fastened her lustrous eyes again on the young Provincial, who had remained a
                  silent but deeply interested listener to this conversation. "You will call on me,
                  will you not? I shall be exceedingly happy to see you at any time," she said,
                  addressing him.
               "With more pleasure than I have words to express," he replied, with an earnestness
                  scarcely called for by this simple invitation, for the beauty and fascinations of
                  Margaret had already done their work, and the glance with which she accompanied
                  her words, had completely carried him away.
               "Upon my word, captain," she said, laughing, but at the same time regarding him
                  with a speaking glance, "I do believe you have been taking lessons from Colonel
                  Shee."
               "Surely I do not require teaching to admire Miss Moncrieffe," said the young
                  soldier, with a low bow, and placing his hand on his heart as he spoke.
               "There, that will do; get a new speech ready for to-morrow, captain," she said,
                  smiling, at the same time touching Selim with her riding-whip, and as he sprang
                  forward with a bound, she kissed her hand gaily to the twain, and had only time to
                  say, "Don't forget the commission," with another meaning glance at the younger,
                  ere she was out of speaking distance.
               "What a lovely girl," said Edmund to his brother, as he followed her receding form
                  with admiring eyes.
               "What—already, Edmund?" said his brother.
               "I don't wonder at anything I have heard now. But I say, Arthur, for whom do you
                  suppose she intends that commission?"
               "I can't guess," replied the brother, drily, for he had, in the question, read his
                  brother's thoughts. "Can you?" he asked, smiling maliciously.
               "Me? Oh, no," replied Edmund, confusedly, and blushing as he spoke. "No matter; I
                  don't care for whom it is intended. She is a lovely girl, and may do as she
                  chooses."
               "She generally does; and you would have thought so, on the night of the ball, if
                  you had seen her surrounded by a suite as large as that of a queen. But come, I
                  must go to my rooms and do this beauty's bidding. She is too important to our
                  cause to be neglected; besides, the information which she gives is of the highest
                  importance to our plot."
               "I wish, Arthur, you would not use that word again, unless you explain
                  yourself."
               "Well, then, Edmund," and locking arms, the Royalist proceeded to detail to his
                  brother the plot which was fast maturing, upon the success or failure of which
                  depended, as was believed, the continuation or the sudden termination of the war.
                  Edmund listened in rapt silence, and as
                  his brother concluded his disclosure, exclaimed:
               "By heavens! that is wonderfully conceived."
               "Yes, and if carried to a successful termination, every party concerned in it, you
                  may rest assured, will be remembered by a grateful sovereign."
               "I believe I am the only commissioned officer yet enlisted," said Edmund, half
                  musingly.
               "Still harping on my daughter, Edmund," said the brother, laughing, for he well
                  knew that the colonel's commission was running through his busy brain.
               "Well, I can't help it, Arthur, and if I can do anything to earn it, I will, you
                  may rest assured."
               "Earn what?" asked his brother, pretending not to understand his meaning.
               "Oh, pshaw! I suppose I was talking to myself, Arthur. Those terrible eyes of Miss
                  Moncrieffe have quite unnerved me."
               "And that parchment, with the great seal attached, is required to restore you,"
                  said Arthur, laughing. "I hope you will get it, for I know you are able to earn it
                  now," and the conversation which turned upon the prospects of the Royalists, and
                  which is not necessary to repeat, was carried on almost in whispered tones, until
                  the brothers reached the quarters of the Royalist, where they parted, the one to
                  indite his letter to Governor Tryon, in obedience to Margaret's behests; the other
                  to gather all the information he could which might be of any service to the cause
                  he had espoused at the sacrifice of manhood and honor.
               Margaret rode on slowly, meeting at almost every hundred yards some one of her
                  conquests at the ball. For each she had some pleasant greeting, and each one
                  received one of those bright sunny smiles which were so irresistible. She reached
                  her home while General Putnam and Major Burr were still engaged in conversation,
                  not only as to the singular conduct of young Adams, who was nowhere to be found,
                  but as to the conclusions reached by the Council of Generals which had been that
                  day convened, and from which the general had just returned when Margaret started
                  for her morning ride.
               Retiring to her own room, she locked the door without waiting to disrobe herself,
                  threw herself into a chair, and, drawing forth the crumpled letter which Captain
                  Blanchard had handed to her, commenced its perusal. As she read, a smile of
                  triumph lighted her beautiful face; and when she closed, she leaned back in her
                  chair, and burying her dimpled chin in one hand, sat for several moments mute and
                  motionless; but that pleasant thoughts were running through her busy brain, was
                  evidenced by the expression of her countenance, which spoke of love and
                  happiness.
               "Oh! how happy I shall be when I show him how promptly I have kept my pledge to
                  him. Oh, Aaron, Aaron! do you love me as I love you?" and again
                     she sank into a fit of musing, from
                  which she was aroused by a gentle tap at the door. Hastily thrusting the letter of
                  Governor Tryon back into her pocket, she opened it, to admit the general's eldest
                  daughter—a bright, sprightly girl, who had quite sense enough not to be jealous of
                  Margaret's superior attractions, and also the wisdom to admire, and acknowledge
                  her admiration for the beautiful and fascinating stranger.
               "I declare, Margaret," she said, as she took a seat, "I never saw you look so
                  perfectly lovely!" and she gazed with earnest admiration upon Margaret, whose
                  color, heightened by the ride and the occurrences which had transpired during it,
                  and whose eyes were actually dancing with happiness, fully justified her
                  assertion.
               "Really, I am afraid I shall begin to be very vain if everybody tells me I am so
                  handsome. I am sure, Belle, I don't think of my beauty at all, though I know I
                  have my share."
               "I really believe you don't, Margaret," said Belle; "and that is the reason why
                  every one admires you. What is that, Margaret?" and she stooped to pick up a piece
                  of paper which lay at the young girl's feet, half hidden by the long trail of her
                  riding-dress.
               It was the letter which Margaret had just received from Governor Tryon, and which
                  she thought she had thrust into her pocket, whereas it had only been laid between
                  the heavy folds of her dress. Margaret intuitively tuitively knew what it was; but
                  without exhibiting the least surprise or emotion, said, coolly:
               "Pick it up; that's a dear girl. I am so tired, I am sure if I should stoop I
                  couldn't get straight again;" and Miss Putnam, laughing at what she deemed to be
                  Margaret's affectation, picked up the letter and handed it to her.
               "Come, now, Margaret, what is it?" she asked, as Margaret proceeded leisurely to
                  open the letter, and commenced its perusal with a face as free from expression as
                  a marble statue—"some love-letter, I'll wager."
               "You would not be far out of the way, Cousin Belle," said Margaret, gaily; "you
                  know I made several conquests on the night of the ball."
               "Is it a declaration? Come, read it to me. I don't care for the names; but I do
                  want to hear a genuine love-letter. I never had one myself."
               "You won't say anything?"
               "'Pon honor, not a word."
               "You won't tell grandpa?"
               "No I won't tell grandpa, nor Lady Putnam, nor even Mattie. Come, read—that's a
                  good girl; I want to hear how a man writes when he is in love."
               "Oh, then, you have heard a man talk love?—eh, Cousin Belle?" and she looked
                  quizzically at the young lady, thus beseechingly addressed, who colored to the
                  very roots of her hair."
               
               "Oh, go along, Margaret, you little torment. Come, read the letter, and perhaps
                  I'll tell you something afterward."
               Thus appealed to, Margaret, holding the letter up, pretended to read its contents,
                  and she proceeded to recite a string of nothings—of fulsome compliments, absurd
                  flatteries and declarations of intense passion. As she had to invent as she went
                  along, she halted occasionally; but she excused herself for this by abusing the
                  penmanship, as she closed, and expressed the hope that her lover, whoever he might
                  be, would employ a secretary for his next effusion, a suggestion which drew from
                  Belle a burst of such uproarious laughter, that her sister came running into the
                  room to learn the cause, and seeing Margaret standing with the open letter in her
                  hand, her curiosity was also awakened, and she insisted upon knowing the cause of
                  her sister's mirth.
               It would have puzzled Margaret to repeat verbatim the string of nonsense she had
                  just put together to satisfy the curiosity of Belle; so drawing herself up with a
                  mock dignity, which brought a merry laugh from Mattie, she folded the letter up
                  very deliberately, and as she placed it this time very securely in her pocket, she
                  said: "I don't think you are quite old enough, Cousin Mattie, to understand such
                  things;" and Mattie now joined her sister in the boisterous mirth, which,
                  considering that she was nearly four years the senior of Margaret, was fully
                  warranted. Margaret managed very readily and adroitly to turn the conversation
                  into topics more interesting to her new cousins than a love-letter addressed to
                  her, and in a few moments the occurrence was quite forgotten.
               "Come, children," she said with a demure look, and again their noisy laughter rang
                  through the room, "I wish to change my attire, and I will thank you to retire,"
                  and she courtesied very reverently at them.
               "Oh, certainly, my lady," they replied, in a breath, and in the same strain, and
                  moving backward to the door, they saluted her with another courtesy as dignified
                  as her own, and once more she was alone.
               Hastily locking the door, she drew the letter which had so nearly been discovered,
                  from her pocket, and seating herself, with a pair of scissors commenced cutting it
                  into pieces so minute, it would have been impossible to reunite them. This done,
                  she chewed the pieces until recognition of their original shape or purport was out
                  of the question, and threw them out of the window. Having completed this important
                  work of destruction, she changed her riding-habit for a becoming morning dress,
                  and in a few moments was seated in the room with Mrs. Putnam and her daughters, as
                  unconcernedly as if she had not just escaped being hung "as high as Haman," in
                  accordance with the general's threat.
               Of the contents of this most important letter, it is only necessary to say, that the governor warmly
                  thanked her for the proffer of her valuable aid. He instructed her to communicate
                  as often and fully as possible with him, designating Captain Blanchard, her
                  father's intimate friend, as the safest medium; and he urged her, if possible, to
                  secure the coöperation of some officer of position and influence, possessing means
                  of correct information, as the success of the measures in which they were engaged,
                  depended upon the first blow. In conclusion, he assured her that any promise made
                  by her, to secure the aid of such an officer or officers as might be required,
                  would be faithfully carried out by him, and he referred her to Captain Blanchard
                  for full particulars as to the intentions to which his letter alluded.
               And this was the love-letter which had excited such mirth on the part of Cousin
                  Belle, and which Cousin Mattie was too young to understand.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               NEW CHARACTER INTRODUCED.
               I HAVE said, in a previous chapter, that at the time when the rumors of the
                  intended or expected invasion of New York reached the city, all the best families
                  had fled, and sought refuge and safety in distant quarters.
               Many, however, remained. Some from choice, for they were strongly attached to the
                  cause in which the Provincial troops were engaged, and were willing to prove their
                  loyalty by their presence, and by sharing the dangers and privations of those who
                  governed the city. Many, again, remained from necessity, not having the means to
                  leave the scene of threatened danger; or if they had, they knew not where to find
                  shelter.
               Among the latter class was one family, consisting of a mother, a daughter aged
                  about nineteen, and a son, twenty-two.
               Mrs. Brainard was a widow—the widow of a soldier who had sacrificed himself on his
                  country's altar in one of the earliest contests which commenced the quarrel
                  between the colonies and the mother country—and she was as deeply imbued with a
                  spirit of patriotism, as had been her
                  husband, when he left home and family to volunteer for his country's defence.
               Lizzie, as she was familiarly called, the daughter, was about nineteen, and was
                  the unfortunate possessor of two qualities which in all ages have subjected their
                  owners more or less to temptation, and often insult. She was very beautiful and
                  very poor.
               Albert, the son, a fine, stalwart youth of twenty-two, who had been brought up to
                  the trade of a cooper, was anxious to avenge his father's death, and with full
                  consent of his truly Spartan mother, had enlisted in Colonel McDougal's regiment,
                  and was assigned to Captain Blanchard's company.
               Mrs. Brainard, on the arrival of the troops ordered to the defence of New York,
                  had opened a small shop in what is now known as John street, where she managed,
                  with the aid of Lizzie, to earn a comfortable living by making up linen for the
                  officers of the various corps who occupied the city. As the daughter was assigned
                  to the charge of the shop, the fame of her beauty and attractions soon spread
                  abroad, and customers flocked thither more to enjoy a few moments converse with
                  her, than from any real need of her services as a seamstress; and many were the
                  fulsome compliments and the broad innuendoes to which she had been compelled to
                  listen, from these roystering young men, more than half of whom had received
                  commissions with the sole view of conciliating their families, or securing their
                  influence, and not from any military or civic qualifications.
               More than once she had, with crimsoned cheeks and flashing eyes, been forced to
                  listen to proposals more dishonorable to those who claimed to be men, than to her,
                  whose necessities compelled her to hear them in silence; but the pure, truthful
                  glance of her clear blue eye, and her firm, though modest demeanor, invariably
                  drove them from her, with a feeling of self-abasement known only to the truly
                  guilty.
               At length there came one whose admiration was so truthfully expressed—whose
                  conduct in all things was so irreproachable—who was so polite, so courteous, so
                  attentive, she dared to hope that at length she had found one in whom she might
                  confide, the more so, as he had been brought there by her own and only
                  brother.
               Captain Edmund Blanchard had heard much of the beauty and fascinations of Lizzie,
                  and knowing that her brother Albert was one of his company, had incidentally (to
                  all appearance) hinted his desire of having some linen made up, and Albert,
                  anxious at once to propitiate his commanding officer, and to serve his mother and
                  sister, had offered to introduce him to the house.
               The reader will please to remember, en
                     parenthèse, that in those days many of the commanding officers were
                  no more than the equals of those under him, and that such a thing as a strictly military discipline
                  was almost unknown throughout the entire army of nearly thirteen thousand men who
                  garrisoned the city, except when in actual service, and often then it was
                  grievously neglected or not attended to.
               Albert Brainard was but too happy to introduce his captain to his beautiful
                  sister, of whom he was justly proud, and whom he loved with more than a brother's
                  devotion.
               Captain Blanchard was more than pleased with the beautiful girl—he was fascinated,
                  and he embraced every opportunity, and made many almost impossible ones, for
                  visiting the humble shop over which she presided. The sequel need hardly be told,
                  for every reader can imagine it. He was polite, kind, courteous; and as he showed
                  in a thousand little ways the feelings with which she had inspired him, she could
                  not, unless she had been less than a woman, fail to perceive the impression she
                  had made on him.
               She began to draw comparisons between Captain Blanchard and the other officers who
                  visited the shop; she contrasted his quiet, modest, yet pointedly attentive
                  behavior, with the roystering and often insulting conduct and language of others;
                  and as the comparison always ended in his favor, she gradually began to think him
                  worthy of the feelings he had sought to win, and the result was, she gave them to
                  him, in all the truth, and strength, and purity, of a virtuous woman's first
                  love.
               It is a cruel thing to have to narrate, but the truth must be told, and that a sad
                  truth, that Lizzie Brainard, whose whole heart, and soul, and feelings had been
                  won by the handsome and gallant young captain, in an evil hour trusted to his
                  honorable vows of intended marriage, which was only postponed on account of the
                  uncertainty of his future, and gave to him that which, once given, could never be
                  recalled.
               To say that Edmund Blanchard did not love Lizzie, would be to tell a foul
                  falsehood, for he did, as much as he then thought he was capable of loving
                  anything, and the poor trusting fool, but too happy in that love, had scarce a
                  regret for that sacrifice which she had made, for every feeling of her heart
                  prompted her to repose the most implicit faith and trust in him, and that he would
                  fulfill his promise was no more a subject of doubt to her, than that she was
                  alive; and in that faith and trust, and in his love daily evinced, and as yet
                  showing no change, she found her happiness.
               Each day only seemed to strengthen the ties which bound them together, and Albert,
                  who saw the current of affairs, was but too happy to think he had been the means
                  of introducing to his sister one who was so evidently calculated to make her
                  happy. Captain Blanchard, as an evidence of his love for Lizzie, had promoted her
                  brother to the rank of sergeant, soon after the first introduction to the family,
                  and held out to him the promise of further promotion on the occasion sion of the first vacancy in the
                  company—a promise which he soon afterward succeeded in redeeming, and Albert
                  Brainard received his commission as a lieutenant, in the place of an officer
                  dismissed for insulting and striking a woman. For this kindness, brother and
                  sister were equally grateful, and he was looked upon by either almost as an
                  idol.
               Such was the position of matters at the period when Edmund Blanchard was first
                  introduced by his brother to Margaret Moncrieffe. On that occasion he had been
                  completely bewitched by her beauty, by her fascinating manners, and, above all, by
                  the prospect which, with her speaking eyes, she had held out to him of a
                  colonelcy, in reward for his treason. She had, even in that single brief
                  interview, effaced almost completely the image of the injured Lizzie, and when he
                  parted from her, he found his greatest pleasure in dwelling upon her bewitching
                  loveliness, her fascinating smile, and the prospective commission. It was, with
                  every thought thus engrossed, he found himself almost unconsciously at the door of
                  Mrs. Brainard's shop, for it had, of late, been his daily habit to call there on
                  some pretext or other, though pretext was scarcely necessary, for Mrs. Brainard
                  looked upon him as her future son-in-law, and Lizzie felt that he was to be her
                  husband, for had she not his promise?
               He was received by Lizzie as he ever had been, from the day when she first
                  acknowledged to her heart her own feelings for him, with a quiet but meaning
                  smile, which spoke more than volumes of mere words could have done.
               But he scarcely noticed her smile, nor returned her words of friendly greeting,
                  for when there was a possibility of being overheard, she confined herself to
                  these. Visions of Margaret, of her matchless beauty, her bewitching smile, and
                  that commission, were floating before him, and throwing his cap on one chair, he
                  took a seat on another, with a moody, abstracted air, which she had never before
                  witnessed.
               "Are you sick, Edmund?" she asked in low tones, but every word breathed the deep
                  affection which prompted them.
               "No, not sick, Lizzie, not sick. I am a little tired; I have had a long walk, and
                  something has occurred which has excited me very much, to-day."
               "May I know it?" she asked, in tones which seemed to convey the impression that
                  she was touching on something which did not concern her.
               "Oh, surely," he replied. "By some chance, for which I have not yet learned to
                  account, I met to-day my only and elder brother, Arthur. I think you must have
                  seen him here with some of our officers. He is a captain in the king's army, on
                  parole; we have not seen each other for fifteen years."
               "Oh, I know him very well; he has often been here. And he—is that your brother?"
                  she asked, eagerly.
               
               "My only living relative on earth," he replied, sadly.
               "How bad it must have made you feel, Edmund, to meet your brother under such
                  circumstances, fighting against each other. Oh, Edmund! it is awful to think of;
                  suppose you and he should ever be in battle; just think—brother against brother;
                  why don't you talk to him, and show him how unjust the king is acting toward us?
                  Do, Edmund, do talk to him, and make him feel—for I know you can—how deeply we are
                  wronged."
               "You talk like a little fool," replied the soldier, half-angrily; and as he spoke,
                  his face fairly crimsoned, for her words cut him to the heart—him, who had sold
                  himself for gold, and for gold was ready to betray his country.
               "Please don't speak so, Edmund," said Lizzie, the tears gathering in her eyes at
                  his words. "Don't make me feel that you think I have acted like a fool."
               "I do beg your pardon, Lizzie," said the captain, recalled to himself by these
                  words, and gazing upon the beautiful and trusting girl with his wonted look of
                  affection. "I did not mean that; but when you spoke of asking him to join"——
               "Oh, I see now; the idea of asking him to join our cause would have been about as
                  sensible as to ask you to join his. Of course, I forgive you, Edmund; I did not
                  mean anything wrong by my foolish words."
               "Come, Lizzie, never mind that," he said, again coloring deeply, for her words had
                  cut him to the quick. "We won't talk of that any more; what have you heard
                  to-day?"
               "Oh, not much; there have been half a dozen here today, but they don't seem to
                  know much of what is going on. Everybody thinks that Lord Howe is coming here to
                  sack and burn the city. For my part, I don't believe any such thing; do you,
                  Edmund?"
               "No," he answered, half abstractedly, for he dared not make any other reply lest
                  he should commit himself. "Suppose, Lizzie, they should come and land troops all
                  around us, and hem us in, and offer terms."
               "I'd die, for one," she interrupted, "before I would surrender; no, no, Edmund, no
                  terms for me; death or liberty!" and her eyes fairly flashed with the enthusiasm
                  which animated her.
               "You did not hear me out, Lizzie," said Edmund, almost shamed into honor by this
                  noble girl. "Suppose we found it impossible to hold the city, and Lord Howe
                  offered not only pardon, but rewards to those who would return to their allegiance
                  to the king."
               "I don't think I heard you rightly, Edmund," she said, and he repeated his
                  sentence.
               "Well, go on."
               "Suppose he was to offer me a colonel's commission?" he continued.
               
               "Shall I tell you what I would do?"
               "Of course; I asked for the purpose of learning your opinion."
               "I would tear it up and throw it in his face," exclaimed the enthusiastic patriot,
                  "and tell him that twenty commissions could not purchase my freedom, nor could he
                  quench my love of liberty with all the gold his master owned."
               Edmund Blanchard fairly quailed and cowered beneath her glance, as Lizzie spoke.
                  As yet, he had not dared to confide to her his treason, for he had hoped to win
                  her to his views, and through her, her brother; but these words effectually
                  crushed all such hopes, and with a deep sigh, his head sank upon his breast, and
                  for a few moments he sat mute and motionless.
               "And what is the matter, Edmund?" asked Lizzie, as she noticed his changed
                  appearance and manners.
               "Nothing," he said, with an appearance of carelessness which his looks belied, as
                  he raised his head, "I was only thinking."
               "Well, I don't think of such things. When we can't hold the city we can leave it,
                  and if no one else will do it, I will volunteer to set it on fire, before the
                  king's troops shall hold it one hour. No, no, Captain Blanchard, you will always
                  find me as you first knew me; and when I change from my love and devotion to my
                  country, I will give you leave to find another if you can, who," and she sank her
                  voice to a low whisper, "will love you as I have done."
               Poor Lizzie! she was cutting slowly but surely, by such words, the cord which
                  bound her lover to her. Every word she had uttered, expressing the deep love she
                  bore for her country, and her determination to sacrifice even her life for its
                  welfare, was a severance of some slender thread; for he was so completely wrapped
                  up in the idea which Margaret had not in reality held out to him, but which he had
                  construed as he wished, of promotion in the cause which he had espoused, and so
                  wholly engrossed was he by her beauty and the bright smile which gleamed on him
                  (even now in Lizzie's presence), that the words of Lizzie sounded like reproaches
                  to him, and because he knew he deserved them, he felt them the more keenly.
               He was glad, therefore, when Lizzie changed the conversation, and turned it into
                  the channel in which her own thoughts were running, namely, her love for Edmund,
                  and the hope of speedily becoming his own. In this he joined with his usual
                  apparent cheerfulness; but, in spite of himself, there was an air of constraint
                  about him which the eye of love readily perceived, and which his very efforts to
                  conceal made only the more palpable.
               When he took his leave, she retired to her post behind the little counter,
                  resuming her work; but, as she did so, she heard a deep sigh. It was the echo from her own heart, and that
                  foreboded, in very spite of herself, some sorrow, sadness, or trouble; for,
                  "coming events cast their shadows before."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               MAJOR BURR, AND CORBIE THE TORY.
               WE left General Putnam in close consultation with his aid as to the extraordinary
                  disappearance of Seth Adams.
               The old general was perfectly furious when the report was made to him that no
                  tidings had been received of the young Jerseyman. He denounced him as a traitor.
                  He would offer a reward for his restoration, dead or alive. If dead, he would have
                  his body hung in chains, as a terror to any who might feel inclined to follow in
                  his footsteps; if alive, he would have him whipped to death.
               Major Burr suffered the passionate old general to exhaust his wrath on his
                  suppositions; and when he had recovered a little composure, he ventured to suggest
                  that it might be as well to institute an investigation. As for Adams, he knew him
                  so well, he would stake his life on his fidelity; and acquainted as he was with
                  his coolness and shrewdness, he was perfectly confident that something had
                  occurred beyond the power of man to control, or he would have made his report at
                  the hour specified.
               
               "It's all very well to talk, major—all very well to talk," and the general treated
                  his nose to an extraordinary quantity of snuff; "but there's the fact. He went,
                  and he hasn't come back. Now, sir, explain that."
               "I cannot, general, until I make some inquiries. Major Gibbs, you see, reports,"
                  and he pointed to the letter from the commander of the Life Guard, "that Adams was
                  seen at Corbie's at half-past eight."
               "D—n that Corbie! D—n the whole of his infernal tribe! I have a great mind to hang
                  every man of them, and report to the general when he comes back that they have
                  been hung as spies. Yes," he continued, his anger again getting the better of him,
                  "and I would commence with that infernal scoundrel, Forbes—he's the worst of
                  all."
               "Suppose I investigate the matter, general?" suggested the aid.
               "Suppose we hang 'em first, Burr, and investigate afterward. I don't believe any
                  one would find much fault."
               "But they might not like it," replied the major, suggestively; and the idea so
                  pleased the old general, he broke into a loud laugh, and, directing the major to
                  act as he thought proper, left the room to prepare for dinner; for he was as
                  simple in his habits as he was brave, generous, and confiding, and did not disdain
                  to confess to hunger at noon, especially when he had been on active duty since six
                  in the morning.
               Major Burr hurried through the remainder of the papers which required attention;
                  and having ordered his horse to be brought up, prepared to start for Corbie's
                  house, with the intention of learning for himself, so far as he could, the
                  probable fate of the young soldier who had been intrusted by him with a duty at
                  once so delicate and so hazardous.
               As he was buckling on his sword, the door of the apartment was gently opened, and
                  the well-known face of her to whom he had sold his very soul, in exchange for her
                  love and smiles, peered in.
               "May I come in?"
               "Yes, for I am going out," was the reply of the major; but uttered in playful
                  tones.
               "Well, that is certainly an inducement to enter," she said, in a similar strain.
                  "Pray, are you going to battle?" and she looked inquiringly at his sword.
               "I hardly know what I may meet, Margaret," he said. "I am going to that infernal
                  scoundrel, Corbie, to learn, if I can, what has become of poor Seth."
               "And pray, who is poor Seth?" she inquired.
               "Oh, I forgot! The fact is, between love and war I am getting a little confused, I
                  am afraid."
               "I hope your memory will not desert you entirely," she said, playfully but
                  meaningly.
               Major Burr caught the full import of her words, and as he met her ardent, loving
                  gaze, he forgot everything again, but her and her love.
               
               "Fear not, Margaret; the prize offered is too great for human resistance. Seth is
                  a young Jerseyman, a cousin of Patsy, by the way, who was with me. Why Margaret,
                  what have I said?" he exclaimed, as she turned from him with moistened eyes.
               "Oh, nothing, Aaron, nothing. I see that your memory has not failed you, for
                  Patsy's cousin can make you"——
               "Good Heavens, Margaret!" he interrupted, "how can you be so unreasonable? It is
                  not because he is Patsy's cousin, but because he has been my trusty follower
                  through every hardship. I sent him on a mission last night of great delicacy. He
                  has not returned, and I am really anxious for his safety."
               "Because he is Patsy's cousin?" asked Margaret, looking sadly but tenderly in his
                  face.
               "Because I love the young man for his courage, devotion and fidelity, and only
                  therefore, Margaret. Do not be silly or unreasonable. If you do not know me, learn
                  to know me now. I have no thought, or hope, or wish disconnected from you, but I
                  have duties to discharge."
               "True, Aaron," said Margaret, her countenance brightening at his words, "I was
                  selfish, and I am afraid," she added, looking lovingly into his face, "I was a
                  little jealous; you will forgive me, won't you?"
               "I forgive everything, Margaret, but a suspicion of my devotion to you. I am
                  yours, and yours only."
               "But who is this Corbie, and what is he?"
               "Oh, a pestilent, turbulent fellow, who keeps a low drinking-house near Richmond
                  Hill. I wonder the commander-in-chief allows it. We think the house is the
                  head-quarters of"——but he checked himself, and did not finish his sentence, for he
                  remembered he, too, had been bought with a price. "But come, I cannot stop to
                  discuss such matters with you now," he continued, "I must be off. Shall I see you
                  again, to-day?"
               "I am not afraid to walk in the garden," she replied, with a demure look, "and if
                  you choose to see that I am not interrupted, I shall be obliged to you. I love to
                  walk on moonlight nights, and think or"—and she bent her head close to his
                  own—"talk, as the case may be. I never walk before nine or ten o'clock at
                  night."
               "You shall be secure from any disagreeable intrusion," said the major, and
                  imprinting a kiss upon her hand, he left the room, and Margaret was alone.
               A sharp ride of some fifteen minutes brought him to Corbie's house, where he
                  dismounted, and giving his horse in charge to an orderly who had followed him,
                  entered the place.
               He was received by Corbie, who was alone (for at that hour of the day the soldiers
                  were at dinner, and the loyalists who frequented his house rarely came there in
                  the day-time), with a profusion of bows and scrapes, and expressions of
                  gratification at the honor conferred upon him by this visit, from an officer of
                  such distinction as Major Burr.
               
               "You need not take any great credit to yourself, Corbie, for this visit, and
                  perhaps you won't think it much of an honor before I leave you. Sit down, Corbie,
                  and answer my questions."
               "I couldn't think of sitting down, major, in your presence, but I will answer any
                  questions your honor may ask. Won't your honor permit me to offer you some old
                  Southside? There ain't its equal, I know, in New York; at least Colonel Fanning
                  says so, and he's a first-rate judge."
               "Colonel Fanning! and who is Colonel Fanning, Corbie?"
               "Oh, bless you, sir, don't you know Colonel Fanning?" replied the landlord, whose
                  face would have flushed if it could, through the roseate hues that dyed his cheeks
                  at this slip of the tongue. "Oh, sir, he belongs to the regular army, and he used
                  to come over here with his friends on purpose to drink some of that. S'pose you
                  try a glass major, I do assure you"——
               "No matter just now, Corbie. There was a young man here last night, named
                  Adams,"
               "I know him, major; a tall, sandy-haired, rather well-favored young man," replied
                  the host, who had now fully recovered his composure. "He said he was from
                  Jersey."
               "The very man; you seem to know him pretty well."
               "And I ought to remember him. He came in soon after eight and had three stiff
                  glasses right atop of one another, and then his tongue began to wag, and he told
                  me who he was."
               "Well, go on."
               "He said he wanted to 'list with the king's troops, and I told him he'd come to
                  the wrong place for that. I told him I was under heavy bonds, and that I wouldn't
                  abuse the general's confidence by no manner of means. Fact is, major, he was
                  desperately drunk."
               "Well, and what then?" inquired the major, with an air of apparent concern, for
                  Corbie's air and manner were so truthful, Major Burr could find no reason to doubt
                  him.
               "Why, he staid and staid till there was nobody here but Forbes and me. You see,
                  major, Forbes lives away down in the city, and when he gets belated, I always give
                  him a bed, cause you know we're old countrymen. So, as I said, he staid and staid,
                  and I couldn't get him away, and the first thing I knew, we heard tattoo, and then
                  I swore he should go, 'cause if he was found here at that time of night, it would
                  be worse for me than him; and so Forbes and I put him out and shut the house up
                  'cording to orders. I try to keep my house quiet and orderly, but, major, there's
                  some desperate hard drinkers as comes here, and I'm afraid they will give me a
                  deal of trouble yet."
               Major Burr mused a moment, and turning to Corbie, or rather looking him full in
                  the face, he said:
               
               "And no one but Forbes and yourself were in the house when he left?"
               "He didn't leave," replied the wily publican, who saw through the question in an
                  instant. "Forbes and I put him out."
               "Ah, yes, I remember. Well, I will see Forbes; but, Corbie, you had better be
                  careful. You know your house is suspected as being the head-quarters of all the
                  mischief going on, and if General Putnam catches you at anything wrong, he will
                  relieve your bondsman and put you—you know where," and the young officer looked at
                  the landlord very meaningly.
               Now these words might have been interpreted as a caution or a threat, and they
                  were intended to be ambiguous, but the speaker well knew that the impression in
                  either case would be the same.
               "Major, I've heard that before; but I tell you I do all I can to keep a quiet
                  house, and I make it a rule never to allow any one to talk on subjects which might
                  occasion trouble. General Putnam will never catch me at anything wrong," and it
                  was the landlord's turn to look meaningly at the officer, for his words also would
                  bear two constructions.
               Major Burr turned quietly away, and saying, "I will see Forbes myself," was about
                  taking his leave, when the host, starting forward, said eagerly:
               "But, major, won't you try some of that old Southside side? I do assure you, there
                  ain't anything like it in New York."
               "No, thank you, Corbie," was the major's reply, still moving toward the door, and
                  without turning round, continued: "Mind, Corbie, be careful, and don't get caught
                  in any trouble."
               "I won't, I promise you, major. I'm sorry you won't try my Southside. Perhaps
                  you'd let me send you a case?"
               "By no means," hastily replied the major, turning round and facing the landlord,
                  and he spoke so eagerly and quickly that a faint, meaning smile crossed the Tory's
                  face. In another moment he was alone, and as the door closed upon the receding
                  form of the officer, he muttered:
               "I wonder what the devil that fellow means! No matter; I thank him for his
                  caution, or threat, as it may be. He'll see Forbes, will he? Much good may it do
                  him!" and he chuckled to himself with evident satisfaction.
               Major Burr, after stopping a few moments to pay a call on the commander of the
                  Life Guard, Major Gibbs, rode down Broadway, and reined up in front of Forbes'
                  door. The shop was half filled with customers, or rather visitors, among whom were
                  several Provincial customers, and the brothers Blanchard, of whose relationship,
                  however, he was as yet ignorant. As he entered the shop, he saluted the younger of
                  the two with great cordiality, and
                  complimented him upon the appearance and discipline of his company, which, he said
                  (and he spoke in the name of General Putnam), any captain might be proud to
                  command, and he only wished the rest of the regiment was like it.
               Captain Blanchard colored, and looked pleased at this official praise, for
                  although Major Burr was his junior by many years, his rank and well-earned
                  reputation rendered even his praises pleasing, and begged to introduce his
                  brother, the Royalist.
               "Ah, yes, captain, I have often seen you," he said cordially extending his hand.
                  "I remember meeting you at Colonel Shee's ball. You seemed to know Miss Moncrieffe
                  very well."
               "Ever since she was born, sir. Her father and myself have been friends from
                  boyhood. She is a very lovely girl."
               "Very lovely," replied Major Burr, hurriedly, for he felt the color was coming to
                  his cheeks, and hastily excusing himself for a few moments, he went to the rear of
                  the shop, where Forbes was engaged, and requested, or rather commanded, him to
                  retire to the back room for a few minutes.
               Forbes was fain to comply, and when the door was closed, he was submitted to an
                  examination similar to that which Corbie had undergone, but there was no variance
                  in their narratives, and Major Burr felt that, as they were the only witnesses who
                  could shed any light upon the occurrences of the evening, whatever they might have
                  been, it would be useless to pursue the investigation further, and with a caution
                  to the gunsmith not to meddle with what did not concern him, he returned to the
                  store and joined the group of officers assembled there. A few moments were passed
                  in social chat, when he took his leave, and rode directly to his quarters, where
                  he reported to General Putnam the result of the inquiries he had just made, and he
                  was about closing with an expression of his confidence in the integrity of Seth
                  Adams, when the old general broke forth in a perfect tornado of denunciation and
                  invective.
               "Adams, he knew, was a deserter—had been bought over to the enemy, and, curse him,
                  he'd have him hung if a hundred pounds could accomplish it!"
               Major Burr listened, of course, without interruption, for he might as well have
                  attempted to stem the torrent of Niagara as soothe the old general's wrath when
                  once aroused.
               When he had exhausted himself, he closed by a threat to have every one of those
                  infernal Tory hothouses of treason closed, and their keepers either imprisoned or
                  hung, and wound up, as he took a tremendous pinch of snuff, by directing his aid
                  to go to the office and prepare a reply to a communication from the
                  commander-in-chief, who had written for certain information on behalf of the
                  committee of Congress.
               
               He was soon immersed in his work, but if he could have been watched, an observer
                  might have noticed that he often laid his pen upon the table, and gave way to fits
                  of musing. At times his thoughts were evidently troubled, and again his
                  countenance was lighted up by a smile of almost rapturous happiness.
               Was he thinking of his treason, or Margaret's love, or both?
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               MARGARET FINDS A NEW LOVER.
               THE brothers Blanchard were seated in the apartments occupied by the Royalist, and
                  over a bottle of wine had been discussing not only their present prospects, but
                  had enjoyed a long talk over old times.
               "By the way, Edmund," said the elder, "you have called, I find, very often on Miss
                  Moncrieffe. Now don't make a fool of yourself there. Pardon me," he said, as he
                  noticed his brother's heightened color, "but I speak only for your good. She is a
                  desperate flirt and coquette. I have known her almost from infancy, and I know
                  what I say. As a devoted Royalist, she is of infinite service to us, and is
                  esteemed accordingly; but I know her thoroughly. Mark my words, Edmund, she does
                  not care any more for you than for the orderly who waits on you. She will use you
                  to her heart's content—lead you on surely, and then laugh at your folly. You had
                  better wait until this infernal war is over, and when we reach home you will find
                  some one to appreciate you and make you happy. You have your captain's commission
                  now?"
               "Oh, yes! Governor Tryon sent that to me at once, with my pay, and I receive my subsistence
                  money regularly every week."
               "Then be content for the present. I have no doubt you will earn and receive
                  promotion in due time."
               "Do you think," interrupted Edmund, "that commission Miss Moncrieffe asked for,
                  was for me?"
               "I don't know what to think of her conduct in that affair. You are the only
                  commissioned officer at present engaged with us, and it may be that she has—well,
                  I don't know—I can't say," he continued, interrupting his own sentence. "She is a
                  queer, unmanageable girl, and may have taken a sudden fancy"——
               "To me?" asked Edmund, eagerly. "Do you think so?"
               "To you! No, Edmund; don't be so foolish. I meant to say that she might have taken
                  a fancy to show an appreciation of your services, or rather what she expects of
                  you. But look out for her; she will lead you a chase, and then hide from you at
                  the last moment."
               "Well," said Edmund, rising, with something of a sigh, "I must return to my
                  quarters; it is nearly the hour for drill."
               "I will walk with you part of the way. I have to stop at Mrs. Brainard's and see
                  about some shirts she is making up for me," and the young Provincial turned away
                  to conceal a blush which the mention of this name had called to his face. He had
                  not dared to confide to his brother the fact of his acquaintance and connection
                  with that family, and dreaded lest he should discover it. For an instant he
                  hesitated whether or not he should disclose it to him, but for very fear he
                  decided not to do so, trusting to chance it might pass unknown, and hoping that
                  Lizzie would not avail herself of the information he had imparted as to his
                  relationship to the Royalist officer.
               These thoughts ran through his brain while he was buckling on his sword, which, on
                  his entrance, he had laid aside, and turning to his brother with an air of
                  well-assumed composure, he declared his readiness to accompany him as far as their
                  roads led together.
               Arm in arm, they proceeded up Broadway, until they reached John street, when, with
                  the promise of soon seeing each other again, they separated, the one to join the
                  company which he did not intend to lead to battle in his country's defence, the
                  other to visit the humble shop of the widow Brainard.
               Since the conversation with Edmund, Lizzie had been anxiously looking for the
                  Royalist captain; for, in the guilelessness of her own heart, she felt that her
                  lover must of course have made known to his brother their position; not the
                  sacrifice she had made for him, but the promise he had made to her. When,
                  therefore, she perceived him entering the little shop, she greeted him with a
                  smile and blush, both of which were so unwonted with her, they attracted his
                     attention tion; for Lizzie, since
                  she had acquired sad experience by intercourse with the gay and dissolute
                  Provincial officers, had ever been noted for her reserved manner.
               "Walk in, captain," she said, rising from her seat behind the counter; "take a
                  seat. Mother, Edmund's brother is here for his——Oh! I beg your pardon, sir," she
                  said, crimsoning as she turned again to him—"we call him Edmund here always.
                  Captain Blanchard, I mean."
               "And pray, Miss Lizzie, why should you beg my pardon?" asked the Royalist, whose
                  interest was excited by this little episode, and who, thinking there might be more
                  behind than he had dreamed of, determined to ascertain the truth.
               "Oh! really, captain, I spoke hastily, and I beg your pardon; but he was here a
                  day or two ago, and he told me he met his brother whom he had not seen in ever so
                  many years, and when he told me who it was, I knew it was you, and—and"——
               "And that is why you begged my pardon?" he asked, with an arch look.
               "Oh, no, sir! but I did not mean to use his name so familiarly in your
                  presence."
               "Oh, yes, I see. You are on very familiar terms with him; but you did not wish me
                  to know it."
               "Not at all, sir," said Lizzie, blushing again. "Please, sir, if you will walk in
                  the back room, mother is just putting up your things;" and the captain, whose
                  interest and curiosity were now excited, gladly availed himself of her invitation,
                  and he entered the little back room off the shop, where he found Mrs. Brainard, as
                  Lizzie had said, putting up "his things."
               "Captain, I am very glad to see you," said Mrs. Brainard, a fine, matronly woman,
                  who had, perhaps, seen fifty summers. "Lizzie was saying the other day that Edmund
                  had found a brother whom he had not seen for many years, and we were right glad to
                  know it was you."
               "Edmund again," thought the captain; but he said: "Yes, Mrs. Brainard, it was a
                  very pleasant meeting, after an absence of fifteen years. I only remembered Edmund
                  as a little boy, and, to meet him as I did, was a great surprise, you may well
                  imagine."
               "We think all the world of him here, captain," continued the old lady; "and, as
                  for Lizzie, why she thinks him about perfection."
               "Ah! that accounts for it," thought the captain, as he recalled the smile and the
                  blush which greeted his entrance; but he said: "Yes, I know; and of course he
                  thinks as much of her?"
               "I hope he does," said Mrs. Brainard, looking up from the work she was smoothing
                  down, preparatory to tying it up. "If he don't, he's told a good many—lies, I
                  suppose I must call 'em," and she gave him a meaning glance.
               "Oh, Edmund would not tell lies, I am sure; and I don't blame him for thinking much of your daughter;
                  for she is certainly a very lovely and a very modest, well-behaved girl."
               "She is a good girl, captain, and that's better than being lovely; and she'll make
                  him a good wife, I know. She would make a good wife for any man."
               Captain Blanchard was a thorough man of the world, an old soldier, and a
                  campaigner, and it was a rare thing for him to be taken by surprise; but these
                  words of the simple-hearted widow did make him start. She did not observe it,
                  however, for, as she finished her sentence, she bent her head again to her
                  work.
               "Yes, madam, she would make a good wife for any man; but Edmund did not tell me
                  when it was to come off. When does she expect to be married?"
               "Oh, as soon as this war is over. He calculates it can't last much longer, and
                  then"——
               Her sentence was interrupted by the arrival of some half dozen officers, who,
                  under pretext of giving orders for work, and examining the small stock of goods in
                  the shop, sought the opportunity of chatting with Lizzie.
               Captain Blanchard listened to their silly prattle for a few minutes, and, while he
                  was disgusted with them, he was perfectly delighted with the modest and correct
                  deportment and language of Lizzie. She listened to their fulsome compliments, for
                  she had no choice but to listen; but her replies were so worded as to convey the
                  unmistakable impression that she fully understood and appreciated their
                  promptings, and never for a single instant did she forget her self-respect.
               Finding themselves foiled at every point, the officers took their leave, each one
                  as he went out saluting her with some compliment which was meant to be expressive
                  of his own personal admiration; but Lizzie listened in silence, and gently
                  courtesied them out.
               Captain Blanchard had overheard every word that had passed during the interview;
                  had noticed the perfect propriety of Lizzie's conduct and language, and taking up
                  the bundle which Mrs. Brainard had put up for him, he reentered the shop, and as
                  he again met the bright smile and blush of the young girl, he took off his cap
                  with an air of respect, and said, with deep earnestness: "I think with your
                  mother, Miss Lizzie, that you will make a good wife for any man;" and, with a
                  courteous bow, he left the shop.
               Lizzie's heart beat with fearful rapidity as she heard these words, for they told
                  her that she had been the subject of conversation between the captain and her
                  mother.
               "Oh, mother, what have you been saying?" she exclaimed, entering the room where
                  her mother was seated, plying her busy needle.
               "Well, daughter, I don't know what you mean by such a question."
               "What have you been saying about me to Captain Blanchard?"
               
               "Why, I don't know as I said anything very particular. I told him you and Edmund
                  was going to be married as soon as the war was over, and he said as how you'd
                  make—no, I said as how you'd make a good wife for any man."
               "Oh, mother, how could you?" asked the blushing girl.
               "How could I! ain't he Edmund's brother, and ain't you going to be married?"
               "Yes, but, mother"——
               "Well, what, mother? A good daughter will make a good wife, I know, and I'm sure
                  you've been a good daughter to me."
               At these words, which brought home to poor Lizzie the consciousness of her own
                  guilt, she blushed crimson; but the fond, doting mother, not dreaming of the
                  cause, attributed her blushes to the fact of her having spoken so plainly of her
                  expected marriage to the brother of her betrothed, and said, with an apologetic
                  air: "Oh, Lizzie, dear, I didn't mean to make you feel so bad about it, but he
                  seemed to know all, and so I spoke freely with him."
               "Did he, really?" asked Lizzie, earnestly.
               "Oh, yes; when I spoke about it, he said he knew, only Edmund hadn't told him when
                  it was to come off; and so I told him. I am sure there was no harm in that."
               "No, nothing;" said Lizzie, half musingly, but she was thinking of the words which
                  the captain uttered as he was leaving, and she was happy. "I am sure I'll try to
                  be a good wife, mother, as good as I know how to be. Dear, dear Edmund!" she
                  murmured, as, leaving her mother at her work, she resumed her place behind the
                  counter of her little shop.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               MARGARET RECEIVES A PROPOSAL.
               EDMUND BLANCHARD could not, because he would not, believe what his more
                  experienced brother had said concerning Margaret, and he determined to ascertain
                  how far he had spoken correctly, little thinking how recklessly he was exposing
                  himself to the most imminent danger.
               The next morning, therefore, after the interview with his brother, found him at
                  General Putnam's house, and the family being engaged in their usual avocations,
                  his heart bounded with delight when he found he was permitted an interview with
                  Margaret, alone. He had fully prepared himself (mentally) for this interview, but
                  to say his heart failed him when she entered the room, radiant with beauty, and
                  wearing her most fascinating smile, would be but feeble truth; he actually
                  trembled as she approached and held out her hand, which he grasped with a force
                  which made the fair girl wince, but which, young as she was, let her into his
                  secret.
               "Well, captain," she said, as in obedience to her motion, he seated himself, and
                  she drew her chair near to him, "what word have you?"
               "Nothing, Miss Moncrieffe, of any special importance. Nothing, at all events,
                  worth communicating to our friends. And you?"
               "Oh, matters go on with me pleasantly and happily as usual, though I must confess
                  I am tired of being cooped up here. By the way, where is your brother, and why is
                  he not with you? When did you see him last?"
               "We dined together yesterday, but he said nothing of coming to see you."
               "He does well to leave that to you," said Margaret, with a meaning smile, which he
                  entirely misinterpreted; for in speaking to him, she had but one purpose in view,
                  the accomplishment of the project in which she had volunteered her services, and
                  in the success of which she felt a truly deep interest.
               "My brother is very kind to deprive himself of the privilege he allows me," he
                  replied, with a low inclination of the head, accompanied by a glance which the
                  shrewd coquette rightly read.
               "And do you really esteem it a privilege, Captain Blanchard?" she added, bending
                  on him a look which went to his very soul.
               "I know no higher privilege, and surely no greater pleasure, than is permitted me
                  in seeing Miss Moncrieffe," and the young soldier blushed as he spoke, for
                  Margaret's eyes were fixed upon him with an intensity of expression which thrilled
                  through him.
               
               "I hope you have not been taking lessons of your brother," she added, half
                  averting her face.
               "I need no teacher, Miss Moncrieffe, save my own heart, to enable me to tell you
                  how solely, how truly, and how devotedly I am yours."
               "Really, Captain Blanchard, you must not speak so earnestly, or I shall be more
                  than half inclined to believe what you say."
               "Mean, Miss Moncrieffe! Oh! could you read my heart—could you but see how
                  indelibly your image was impressed there from the moment you crossed my path—could
                  you but know how I have dreamed of you—aye, even dared to hope of you—you would at
                  least do me the justice to believe me sincere in what I say."
               "I do believe you, Captain Blanchard," said Margaret, with well affected
                  hesitancy, and stooping her head until the color came (a trick she had learned
                  from reading of a French abbé, who, whenever he wished to blush, bent down his
                  head and held his breath for a moment), she raised her eyes to his; her face was
                  suffused with a deep blush, her eyes wore a softened expression, and there was an
                  outward indication that she had appreciated the fervor of the young soldier's
                  feelings, and reciprocated them. "I do not know what you mean," she said,
                  confusedly, turning toward the door, as if fearful of interruption.
               "Oh, then let me say," exclaimed the impassioned young man, "that since the moment
                  I saw you your image has haunted me. I see nothing, hear nothing, know nothing,
                  care for nothing, but you."
               "You must not speak so, Captain Blanchard. I am young—very young, and very
                  inexperienced. My position here is one of peculiar difficulty; do not let me think
                  you would take advantage of it."
               "For the world, no. On my honor as a man and gentleman, I am true, honest, and
                  sincere. Speak one word to me—say that you have known my devotion for you—say that
                  you know"——
               "I can say nothing, Captain Blanchard," she said, interrupting him, and
                  continuing, with an appearance of deep emotion, "I have no right to say anything.
                  My father is not here to counsel me, and when we may meet, heaven only knows. Do
                  not ask me now," and again she averted her head, as if to conceal her blushes.
               "Give me one word of hope—one single word, and I am your slave," he exclaimed,
                  passionately; "only one word, Miss Moncrieffe."
               "Captain Blanchard, I am too young to listen to such words from any man, and you
                  ought to respect my position more than to urge them upon me. What can I say to
                  you? What ought I say to you? Go on in the course you have marked out for
                  yourself, and—and," she continued, hesitatingly, "hope for your reward."
               Captain Blanchard was so blinded by his desperate passion for Margaret, he could put only one
                  interpretation on her words, and that was favorable to his aspirations; and as he
                  listened to them, his eyes kindled, his cheeks flushed, and rising, he said, with
                  an energy which almost startled the self-possession of Margaret:
               "Thanks, thanks—ten thousand thanks. I will go on—I will prove myself worthy even
                  of you, and make you proud of the love I bear you."
               "Please don't say any more, Captain Blanchard," said Margaret, deprecatingly. "It
                  is wrong in you to speak so, and more than wrong in me to listen."
               "Your words are law, Miss Moncrieffe," he said, with an air almost of reverence,
                  and bowing as he spoke, for he felt now secure, at least in the right to hope, and
                  he was but too happy to prove his devotion by his obedience.
               Fortunately for Margaret, whose dexterity had been taxed to the utmost by this
                  interview, the door of the parlor was at this moment opened, and Major Gibbs, the
                  commander of the Life Guard, entered, having been summoned thither by a special
                  summons from General Putnam, and after dispatching his business, stepped in the
                  parlor to pay a call on the ladies of the family. He either did not, or affected
                  not to notice the agitated manner and flushed cheeks of the young captain, but,
                  with the blunt gallantry for which he was so conspicuous, proceeded to pay
                  Margaret some home compliments ments upon the conquests she had made during her
                  brief stay in the city.
               She repelled them with well assumed sincerity of language and manner, and
                  occasionally, as she spoke, she stole a glance at Captain Blanchard, which, in his
                  infatuation, he chose to read as saying, "I am satisfied with one."
               The latter soon afterward took his leave, in a perfect state of ecstasy, having
                  received a gentle pressure of the hand from his new idol as they parted, and
                  wended his way to his quarters, scarce knowing whether he was on his head or his
                  heels, but quite confident that Margaret reciprocated his feelings, for had she
                  not said, "hope for your reward," and what reward could he hope for—what could he
                  care for, but her love?
               Even the coveted commission of colonel was forgotten, dimmed by the brightness of
                  Margaret's eyes, and obscured by the fascination of her smile.
               When Edmund Blanchard reached his quarters, he was somewhat surprised to find his
                  brother there, awaiting him, and the brother was scarcely less surprised at the
                  air of exultation, and the smile of triumph which lighted the face of the young
                  Provincialist.
               "Well, Arthur," said the younger, throwing his cap on the bed, and turning to his
                  brother, with a bright, buoyant smile, "I am glad to see you; but," and he paused
                  a moment, and gazed at his brother, before he spoke, "what makes you look so confounded
                  glum?"
               "Sit down, Edmund, and tell me what makes you look so confounded happy? to quote
                  your own expression."
               "Oh, the easiest thing in the world," replied Edmund, throwing himself into a
                  chair; and, stretching his legs out to their fullest length, he thrust his thumbs
                  into the arm-holes of his vest, and looked his brother steadily in the eye.
               "Well, out with it; I'd like to know your secret."
               "I can't tell you my secret, brother Arthur; but I will tell you, that there never
                  was a man so mistaken in his life as you have been."
               "And you have seen her?" asked Arthur, with a little of sternness in his manner,
                  for he well knew what his brother meant, and with full information of his promises
                  to Lizzie, could not refrain from some exhibition of his displeasure.
               Edmund bristled up a little at his question, more, however, at the manner in which
                  it was put; but recalling his brother's words concerning Margaret, and knowing
                  that he alluded again to her, he replied: "I have; and what then?"
               "And what then?" continued the Royalist, coolly.
               "That is for me to know, Arthur," replied his brother, with an air of
                  exultation.
               "And pray, young gentleman, what is to become of Lizzie Brainard?" and the
                  Royalist looked at his brother with an expression as if he would read his very
                  soul. "Yes, sir, I repeat, what is to become of Lizzie Brainard? I have something
                  to do with the honor of our name, Edmund, and I ask you again, what is to become
                  of Lizzie Brainard?"
               "Why?" replied Edmund, with a forced laugh, "you can have her if you choose."
               "I don't understand you," said the Royalist, with a tremendous effort to restrain
                  his anger at this unmanly remark. "What do you mean?"
               "I really don't think you have the right, even as my elder brother, to call me to
                  account for my little escapades. I do know Lizzie Brainard, and what of that?"
               "Have you never promised her marriage?"
               "And what if I have? Have you never done the same, most gallant brother, and
                  forgotten it whenever it was convenient to do so?"
               Captain Blanchard bit his lips until the blood almost started from them; but still
                  he restrained himself, and continued, with a coolness perfectly marvellous under
                  the circumstances: "I never did, thank God; such a sin lies not on my
                  conscience."
               "Really, brother Arthur, I should like to know why you take such an interest in
                  Lizzie?"
               "Because I believe her to be a truthful, pure-minded, noble-hearted girl,
                  and"——
               
               A loud, contemptuous laugh from Edmund interrupted this sentence, and for a moment
                  the Royalist looked at his brother with an expression of the most unutterable
                  contempt.
               It was returned by Edmund, who, with a cynical smile, replied to this look by
                  saying: "Why, Arthur, you don't think I was such a cursed fool as to marry a girl
                  like that?"
               "Did you never promise to marry her, Edmund? was the question I asked, Edmund; and
                  I hope for a plain, straightforward answer, such as becomes a man."
               "And what if I did. Perhaps I am not the only one who has promised the same
                  thing."
               "And has she not trusted to your promise?"
               "Well," and the young soldier stroked his beard complacently, "perhaps she
                  has."
               "And have you not wronged her, Edmund?"
               "I don't know what you mean by wronged, Arthur. I certainly have received abundant
                  proof of her love."
               "And given because she believed you loved her, and trusted to your love and
                  honor."
               "Possible," was the cool reply.
               "And you have been to see Miss Moncrieffe, and have dared to offer your love to
                  her?"
               "There is a vast difference in their positions."
               "Only one difference, sir; Lizzie Brainard is beautiful and poor—Margaret
                  Moncrieffe is wealthy as well as beautiful. I ask you, Edmund, in honest
                  sincerity—I ask you as your elder brother—as the rightful representative of our
                  name and the guardian of its honor, as yet unstained, have you brought this foul
                  wrong on a loving, trusting girl?"
               "I don't know what you call a wrong; I repeat I have received from Lizzie every
                  proof of her love I could ask. What more do you require?"
               "Nothing more from you, sir. Henceforth we are no longer brothers. I will not
                  raise my hand against you, nor will I provoke you to raise your own against me;
                  for I consider you so far beneath the contempt of an honorable man you could not
                  insult me. Edmund Blanchard, I blush for you and I despise you, for you are no
                  man."
               "Sir—Arthur—brother, what does this mean? How dare you use this language to
                  me?"
               "How dare you ask that question, sir? How dare you, who have confessed to a crime
                  which ought to shut you out from the society of every honorable man, ask such a
                  question of me? I tell you, Edmund Blanchard, you will rue the day you have proved
                  so false to everything that belongs to a gentleman and honorable man. Under the
                  plea of an honorable promise, you have deceived and betrayed a fond, loving,
                  trusting, virtuous girl. Oh, shame! shame! But, mark me, sir," and, hat in hand,
                  he strode close up to his brother, who, conscious of guilt, was perfectly
                  astounded at such a rebuke from a
                  quarter so unexpected—"that girl is not without friends. I believe, and shall
                  believe, until I have better evidence than your assertion, that until she knew
                  you, she was as true and pure in heart as an angel; and, sir, if you ever again
                  show your face within the house that holds her, the consequences rest on your own
                  head, unless you go there to fulfill your promise to her."
               "Now go to Miss Moncrieffe; I shall go there too; but I shall not betray you; for,
                  coquette as she may be—reckless, heedless, impulsive as she is—she would spurn you
                  as I do now, if she knew half your vileness. Your sure punishment will find you,
                  so truly as there is an avenging God. Farewell, sir. Henceforth we are strangers!"
                  and before Edmund Blanchard could recover from the effects of this terrible
                  denunciation, or utter one word in reply, he was alone.
               No, not alone; for even then, with his brother's words—almost curses—hissing in
                  his ear, and burning into his very heart, with the recollection of the irreparable
                  wrong he had inflicted upon the loving, trusting Lizzie, Margaret Moncrieffe was
                  with him; and, in the remembrance of her cheering smiles, which bade him "hope for
                  his reward," he was content to forget the world beside; and, throwing himself into
                  a chair, when the door closed upon the retreating form of his brother, gave away
                  to a reverie of which Margaret formed the only component part. Poor Lizzie
                  Brainard!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               SETH ADAMS A PRISONER.
               SETH ADAMS threw himself on the deck of the ship, and strove to penetrate the
                  darkness and gloom which surrounded him; but for a long time it was vain, as the
                  berth deck in which the "brig" was located, was lighted by only one lantern, hung
                  well forward, near the berth occupied by the master-at-arms, and where the sentry
                  was stationed who watched over the prisoners. At length his eyes became accustomed
                  to the dim light, and he was enabled to perceive that the hammocks were slung fore
                  and aft, and that he was surrounded by some half dozen men, prisoners like
                  himself, but who were buried in sleep. In vain he attempted to scan their
                  countenances, but he could not distinguish the features of either; so, composing
                  himself with perfect sang froid, he gave way to
                  the thoughts which his position naturally called up.
               He was, then, a prisoner on board a king's ship, and under circumstances which
                  rendered his detention of the utmost consequence; for he was the possessor of a
                  secret of the deepest importance, as well to his country as to its enemies. That
                  some infernal plot and treachery was in
                  contemplation he knew; for, as has been seen, when he was secured at Corbie's
                  house, Colonel Fanning and Corbie had conversed with perfect freedom as to the
                  plans of the Royalists. For an instant he regretted that he had not dissembled
                  with Governor Tryon, and, by manifesting a readiness to serve the enemies of his
                  country, secured the opportunity of serving her interests; but he felt his cheek
                  mantle with the blush of shame at the very idea, and the thought was as quickly
                  dispelled as it was born in his mind—not his heart.
               His only possible chance now was to pretend that he was at least content with his
                  position, and gather all the information he could with reference to the movement
                  in which the Royalists were engaged, and, having learned all he could, to escape
                  if possible; if not, to lose his life in the attempt; for, as to serving against
                  his country, that he never would do. He would lie, or deceive, or do anything to
                  gain his ends, and having comforted himself with the reflection that "what can't
                  be cured must be endured," he closed his eyes, and was soon lost in a slumber,
                  whose peacefulness could only be enjoyed by one whose conscience was at rest.
               At daylight he was aroused by the customary morning gun, and in a few minutes the
                  berth deck was cleared of all its occupants, save those like himself, in the
                  "brig."
               "Come out of that, you rebel dog!" was his first salutation, accompanied by a
                  smart blow from a ratan on the place where, in some natures, the seat of honor is
                  located. The voice, which was a very gruff one, belonged to the master-at-arms,
                  and it was he who held the ratan which had inflicted the first blow Seth Adams had
                  received since he was a boy.
               Manacled as he was, he could not resent the insult, for such he deemed it, quite
                  forgetting that he was a prisoner in the power of an enemy; but as he sprung up to
                  his full height at one bound, he fastened a glance upon the petty tyrant, which
                  spoke as plainly as words could speak, "if I ever do catch you, that will be the
                  last blow you will ever strike."
               "Come out of that, on deck with you, and air yourself," and the ratan was again
                  raised, but Adams said:
               "Don't strike me again; tell me what you want me to do."
               "On deck, you scoundrel," and the ratan fell, this time on the young man's
                  shoulders.
               Tears started to his eyes, but they were tears of shame and mortification; he
                  obeyed, however, in silence, and ascending the ladder which led to the upper deck,
                  he found himself surrounded by a crowd of sailors and soldiers, the former making
                  preparations to wash down and holy-stone the deck, the latter striving to get out
                  of the way as much as possible, for they well knew the antipathy which sailors
                  bear to soldiers.
               He had no time to look about, for he was conducted at once to the forecastle with his
                  fellow-prisoners, and bidden to stand still there until he was ordered below. He
                  gladly embraced the opportunity thus afforded, and the strangeness of the sight
                  for a time made him forget his position; any one who has been on board a
                  man-of-war at that hour, for the first time, could well appreciate his sensations.
                  All was bustle and activity, but there was no noise or confusion, for every man
                  had his station and knew his duty, and perfect silence prevailed, broken only by
                  the whistle of the boatswain's mates, or the gruff orders of the officers of the
                  deck.
               While engaged in watching this novel scene, he was accosted by a voice which
                  seemed familiar, and turning he saw before him, dressed in the garb of a seaman, a
                  young man, Paul Babcock, a neighbor and a friend of his own at Elizabeth, who had
                  early left home to follow the sea, and had not been heard from for three or four
                  years.
               "What on earth are you doing here with them 'ere bracelets on?" he asked, pointing
                  to the manacles on Seth's wrists.
               "And what are you doing here?" was the reply.
               "I belong to the forecastle, Seth; I was pressed in Liverpool, nigh on three years
                  ago, and I've been aboard this bloody craft ever since. But I say, what do them
                  mean?" and he looked at the irons.
               "I am a prisoner, you see, Paul," said Seth, and he held up his hands with a shrug
                  of his shoulders, which yet smarted under the blow of the brutal
                  master-at-arms.
               "And so am I, only worse, for they make me serve when I don't want to, and fight
                  agin my own flesh and blood. Hush! I'll get a chance to see you before long. I'll
                  look out for you as well as I can—only mind me, Seth, you hear?"
               Seth nodded assent, feeling but too grateful to have found an acquaintance among
                  the crowd of foreign faces which surrounded him.
               It is not necessary for the purpose of this work to narrate the incidents
                  connected with the brief captivity of Adams, for it was briefer than his captors
                  had intended by many months. Seth Adams in no wise belied the character Major Burr
                  had given him, as being shrewd, cool, determined, and cunning as a fox. He
                  listened to everything, treasured up everything, and submitted without complaint
                  to every indignity which the brutality of the master-at-arms, who had sole charge
                  of him, could inflict.
               He had gathered from hints and expressions of the Royalist sailors and soldiers,
                  aided often by direct communications from Paul, information of the highest
                  importance to the commander-in-chief—information which, if the country was to be
                  saved, must be communicated to him at the earliest possible moment at all hazards,
                  and he determined to risk his life in the attempt to impart it in person, for by
                  no other possible means could it be conveyed to head-quarters.
               
               By careful watching he had learned much of life and habits on ship-board, and he
                  determined to avail himself of the information thus acquired, and if possible to
                  effect his escape. To facilitate this, he had practised on his manacles at every
                  conceivable opportunity, and by patient and constant effort had succeeded in so
                  loosening the key which united them, he could withdraw and replace it with his
                  teeth. To illustrate the possibility of this, it is only necessary to say that
                  ship's "irons" are entirely different from those used on shore, keyed only at one
                  end, and very roughly manufactured. There is a place on board the ship which every
                  seafaring man knows as the "head," the purposes of which it is not necessary to
                  explain; but Seth had determined to make use of his knowledge of this place to
                  effect his escape, and awaited only what he deemed a fitting opportunity. He
                  learned with dismay that the whole British fleet, with thousands of hired troops
                  on board, was daily expected, and knowing that the consummation of the infamous
                  plot, whose particulars he had gleaned from every conceivable source, only awaited
                  their arrival, he determined to make the long desired
                  opportunity.
               The night chosen for his perilous undertaking was pitchy dark, and the rain was
                  pouring down in torrents, so that every man, whether sailor or soldier, was stowed
                  away in every possible spot where shelter might be afforded. Every soul on the
                  berth-deck was asleep, except cept Seth, and the sentry, who was seated on a
                  mess-chest near the lamp burning on the forward part of the ship, straining his
                  eyes to decipher the words of some book he held in his hand.
               Seth arose, and stooping so as to avoid the hammocks, whose inmates were sound
                  asleep, he approached the sentinel, and said, in a disguised voice:
               "Please, Mr. Soldier, I want to go to 'the head?'"
               The sentry looked up from his book, and not noticing who it was, thought it was
                  one of the prisoners of the ship's crew, who were not in irons, as the light of
                  his lamp was too dim to enable him to distinguish anything, for it was not a
                  necessary consequence of being in the "brig" that a prisoner should be in irons,
                  but Seth had earned his distinction by his insolence to Governor Tryon, who, sooth
                  to say, had entirely forgotten the young man, and did not remember he was on
                  board.
               "Go and be d—d," was the gruff reply of the sentry, who, hearing the rain
                  pattering on the deck above him, and whose duty it was to accompany his prisoner
                  to the head, and return with him to the lower deck, had no idea of going on deck
                  to be soaked through for the accommodation of any prisoner, for he would have to
                  sit the remainder of the watch with wet clothes on, and to save himself from this,
                  he gave Seth permission to go unattended.
               Seth made no reply, lest his identity should be discovered covered, but turning away, he silently moved toward
                  the hatchway which led to the deck, and as he passed along, gently withdrew the
                  key which secured his manacles. Sliding them off, he put them in the bosom of his
                  shirt, and ascended the companion way, and for the first time since he had been on
                  board, he trod the deck a free man, for even in this step he felt a consciousness
                  of freedom. The darkness was so impenetrable, he could not see one step before
                  him, nor could he perceive a single human being. He knew the way, however, to the
                  "head," and moving cautiously along, he reached unnoticed the steps which led to
                  the topgallant forecastle, where the "head" is located.
               There was a sentry posted there, but as it was no unusual matter for the men to go
                  to the "head" at all times of day or night, he paid no attention to Seth, but
                  stood with his back to the wind, and his face buried up to his eyes in his
                  coat-collar. Another moment, and Seth was in the "head," where, unnoticed, he
                  divested himself of his coat, and everything but his pantaloons, and wrapping them
                  up, with the irons inclosed, he dropped them overboard. The pantaloons he tied
                  about his neck by the legs, in such a shape they would afford as little resistance
                  to the water as possible. Silently but fervently he commended himself and his
                  purpose to God, and sliding down, he managed to reach the martingale guys, and
                  thence glided to the martingale. With one more brief prayer, he dropped into the
                  water, a distance of only about three feet, and fortunately the noise of the wind
                  and the violence of the rain drowned the sound made by his body as it cut the
                  water.
               Rising from the plunge, he looked around, and seeing the lights on Staten Island,
                  suffered himself to float noiselessly up with the tide, which was running then
                  strong flood, his intention being to wait until he got out of possible hearing,
                  and then make for the Jersey shore, which, from the spot where the ship lay, near
                  the entrance to the "kills," was distant about three miles. When he had reached a
                  sufficient distance from the ship, he struck out, noiselessly and slowly, so as
                  not to fatigue himself, for he had a long swim even for so strong and bold a
                  swimmer as he was. But he was animated, first by the sense of freedom, and next by
                  the hope of thwarting the enemies of his country, by imparting to the
                  commander-in-chief the important information he had acquired.
               He had swam perhaps two or three hundred yards, when some hard substance struck
                  his chest with such force as to cause him great pain, and on reaching his hand
                  forward to discover what it might be, he found it was a piece of board about ten
                  or twelve feet long, and a foot in width, which had probably been dropped by some
                  vessel. Blessing providence for this most welcome and timely aid, he at once
                  seized hold of it, and for a while suffered himself to float along with the tide, so as to gain strength, and by
                  watching the lights on the shore, he perceived that he was drifting up the "Kills"
                  at a very rapid rate, for the tide runs there with much greater force than in the
                  open bay.
               Seth was glad of this, and determining not to weary himself unnecessarily, lest
                  when exertion should be needed he would be incapable of making any, he held
                  quietly to his plank, and floated on, occasionally giving a few strokes to aid his
                  progress. Of course he suffered much from the coldness of the water, but his
                  sufferings were diminished much by the recollection that he was free, and he bore
                  them in silent patience. It was nearly midnight when Seth escaped from the ship,
                  and how long he had floated he knew not; but he hailed with delight a streak of
                  grey dawn which broke out in the east, for he knew that ere long he would be able
                  to discover where he was. The rain had gradually moderated, and, about the time
                  day was breaking, had ceased entirely, the clouds, at the same time, beginning to
                  break away. He could only hope that he had gone through the "Kills;" but whether
                  he had kept in them, or floated into Newark bay, he could not tell, and his joy
                  may be imagined when daylight permitted him to discover his position, he found
                  himself about a mile above the present site of Elizabethport. He knew every inch
                  of the shore, for he had fished and clammed it for years, and when he made this
                  discovery, a new life seemed to be given to him. Heading his plank toward the
                  shore, he now struck out manfully, and, in the course of half an hour, was safe on
                  land, wearied, cold and exhausted, it was true, but he was free.
               
               Entering the woods which skirted the shore, he wrung out his pantaloons, and
                  drawing them on, threw himself on the leaves, panting and worn out, and his first
                  thought was an ejaculation of thankfulness to God for his escape. He lay there a
                  very few minutes, for he knew how important it was that his information should be
                  instantly conveyed to the city, and rising, stretched his benumbed and aching
                  limbs, and started forward.
               Seth had providentially landed within two miles, or a little more, from the house
                  of Mrs. Adams, his aunt, by whom he had been brought up from boyhood, and he
                  pushed on with cheerfulness, though every step gave him pain, so terribly had he
                  been affected by his long immersion in the water. But he had a sacred duty to
                  perform, and scorning pain, he kept on his weary road, and after two hours of
                  painful struggling through the woods, his naked flesh and feet torn by the bushes
                  and briers through which he had to force his path, he came in sight of the house,
                  which was just across the road from the woods through which he had worked his
                  toilsome, weary way.
               The sight of his well-remembered home revived him; and panting, bleeding, yet
                  never faltering in the courage which had thus far animated him, he crossed the woods, passed through the fence, and
                  reaching the door of the kitchen, sank exhausted on the step, absolutely unable to
                  make his presence known by the slightest noise, so completely was he worn down by
                  his tremendous efforts.
               How long he lay there he knew not, but at length the door was opened, and a loud
                  scream from Mrs. Adams, who had discovered the bleeding and half-naked form lying
                  there, and hastily closing the door, ran back into the house, assured him he had
                  been seen. Her screams brought Patsy from her room, her simple toilet half
                  finished, but her mother could only point to the door; she was too much frightened
                  to utter a word.
               Patsy boldly approached the door, and as she did so, Seth, who had managed to
                  raise himself on one elbow, met her searching glance of pity. For an instant she
                  gazed inquiringly at him; her breath came thicker and faster, and at length, with
                  a scream of mingled joy and pity, she sprang out and raising his head, exclaimed:
                  "Seth, in God's name what does this mean?" for she had recognized, half-naked,
                  scarred and bleeding as he was, her cousin, the playmate of her earliest years,
                  him whom she had ever looked on as a brother.
               "Mother, mother!" she fairly screamed, "come here, it's Seth—quick, mother!" and
                  stooping down, she placed her arms under his own, and with a tremendous effort
                  raised him to his feet. Mrs. Adams, as she heard her daughter's exclamation, came
                  out as quickly as she had hurried away, and raising her hands in pity and horror
                  at the sight, sprang forward to assist Patsy in her labor of love, exclaiming, as
                  they bore him into the house, "Massy me, what on airth is all this?"
               Seth was placed in the large rocking-chair, his head sinking wearily on Mrs.
                  Adams' shoulder, while Patsy sprang into the other room, and returned as quick as
                  thought, bearing a bottle which she placed to his mouth, and of which he eagerly
                  drank.
               A few swallows revived him so that he was able to sit up, and looking in Patsy's
                  face, with eyes beaming with fraternal love, he said, "Thank God, I am free!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               THE TEMPTRESS CONQUERS.
               THE moon ought to have shone on that night, but it did not; the almanac declared
                  that it was a full moon, but the clouds belied the almanac, for the moon could not
                  be seen through the heavy veil which they had thrown over her.
               Every member of General Putnam's family was fast asleep, and if ladies ever snore,
                  was snoring long before ten o'clock. The general, wearied down with the work of
                  the day, for he was actively and personally engaged in superintending the
                  fortification of the island against the probable and almost certain advent of the
                  British, had retired early, and his family had followed his example.
               The quarters of General Putnam, as history has informed us, were at that time
                  located at No. 1 Broadway, and the garden extended to the river, then bounded by
                  Greenwich street. The house, built by Captain Kennedy, a Royalist officer of
                  wealth, had been selected by him as the most eligible spot on the Island, and
                  little dreaming of what a few years of future might bring forth for him, he had
                  adorned the place in the most tasteful and expensive manner. The grounds extended
                  down as far as the lower side of Greenwich street, and at that time were filled
                  with trees, flowers, and shrubbery of all kinds.
               Fort George, then the principal fortification of the Island, was located on what
                  is now known as the "Battery," and in the rear of the general's quarters, was
                  located "Oyster Battery." Of course, in each of these, sentinels were posted to
                  prevent the approach of any one from the river side, but no thought was taken of
                  that portion of the city inland. As a consequence, the garden of General Putnam's
                  quarters was never intruded upon, and the only precaution taken to guard the
                  approach to his quarters, was from the seaward, or rather river side.
               As has been said, the moon, according to the almanac, ought to have shone that
                  night, but she could not; the clouds were too thick and too heavy even for her
                  penetration, and in consequence, a deep gloom, amounting almost to darkness,
                  prevailed.
               It was between nine and ten o'clock at night (hours most unseasonable for that
                  period, for every one not on duty was presumed to be in bed and asleep), that a
                  form attired in dark clothes might have been seen (if the moon had permitted sight
                  to be available) pacing to and fro in the broad walk which ran parallel with the
                  river and the house, and which was so shaded by the trees that no one in the house
                  or on the river could have perceived
                  anything, even with the aid of the moon.
               It was Margaret, who was taking the walk to which she had declared herself
                  accustomed, and in which, by implication, she had invited her lover to join her.
                  She was pacing the gravelled walk impatiently, half-angrily, and perhaps was
                  wondering whether she had not better return to the house, when a well-known voice,
                  close by her side, uttered the simple word, "Margaret;" it was enough: 
                     
                        "'Twas his own voice—she could not err,
                        Throughout the breathing world's extent,
                        There was but one such voice for her,
                        So kind, so soft, so eloquent."
                     
                  
               
               In another moment she was clasped in the arms of him to whom she had given her
                  virgin affections; him, for whom she would have sacrificed her very soul; him,
                  whom meaning to serve, she had betrayed and purchased with the price of her
                  love.
               "Margaret, my own Margaret!" murmured the young soldier, as she returned his warm
                  embrace, and permitted the ardent kiss with which he expressed his happiness.
               "I was afraid I might be intruded upon," said Margaret, meaningly.
               "And I—shall I say I fear I have intruded upon you?"
               "Say what you choose, Aaron, now you are here," she said, placing her arm within
                  his own, and pressing it warmly. "But come, we must not waste these precious
                  moments. You know me now, and you have said you did not despise me for the
                  unsought acknowledgment of my love."
               "Unsought, Margaret? Did not my first glance disclose to you the love which sprang
                  full-born into my heart? Did not my first words testify how solely I was yours?
                  Did not the first kiss I dared to impress upon your lips, when my heart was
                  gladdened by the assurance of your safety, carry to your heart the conviction of
                  the boundless love I bore you?"
               "Yes, yes, Aaron. Fate, chance, or destiny has thrown us together strangely. God
                  only knows what will be the end or where we may land; but, whatever may be your
                  fate, I will share it with you."
               "My own Margaret—my heart's best treasure!" exclaimed the enthusiastic lover,
                  "what can I do to prove my devotion to you?"
               "Be faithful, only, Aaron; be faithful, for my love's sake. You are engaged in a
                  cause which cannot within the range of human possibility command success. I know
                  it—I feel it. May I tell you what I know? Remember, I have said I will not do or
                  say anything by which you may be compromised until the proper time; nor would I
                  ask you to do or say anything which could conflict with the duties you now owe
                  those with whom you are associated."
               
               "Do you mean, Margaret, that I am to make my choice?"
               "I thought you had made it," responded Margaret, with an air of coldness, half
                  withdrawing her arm from that of her companion; but this was prevented by her
                  companion, who, seizing her hand, drew it again within his own, and said:
               "And have I not? I know no one—I know no tie—I know no allegiance save that which
                  binds me to you. To call you mine—to know that you are mine—is the dearest wish of
                  my heart, and I ask you only to teach me how I may soonest compass that."
               "I am yours, Aaron, come weal, come woe; I love you with all the strength and
                  ardor of first love. I have told you that I was ready to make any sacrifice rather
                  than be separated from you, and I am still prepared to do it; but," and she spoke
                  with deep earnestness, "I told you at the same time that if I was called upon to
                  make the sacrifice which would keep us united, you would be the first to regret
                  it. Do you remember that?"
               "Well, Margaret, perfectly; and I did not make my choice."
               "You did; but you act at times as if you had regretted it."
               "Margaret!" exclaimed the major.
               "I repeat, you act as if you regretted it. Now, Aaron, I shall put you to the
                  test; I am ready to prove my love for you as I said; I am prepared to forsake
                  father, family, friends, name, wealth, standing, for your sake; I am equally
                  prepared to confer on you all I promised. Make your choice now and forever, and
                  ever after abide by it."
               "Margaret, and Margaret alone—I care only for you. Do with me as you choose."
               "Will you accept the title I gave you this morning?"
               "Not without you, Margaret; I would not accept a throne without you."
               "In a few days, I cannot say how many, you shall have the proof of my sincerity
                  and of my power. Aaron," and she spoke almost solemnly, "we are both young, but
                  both have seen much of the world. I do not believe that two like ourselves were
                  thus strangely brought together merely to meet and part. Our hearts sprang to each
                  other from the first; did they not, Aaron?"
               "Indeed and indeed they did," was the ardent response of the young officer, as he
                  raised the hand which lay on his arm, and imprinted a fervent kiss upon it.
               Now listen to me, Aaron, for I am going to give you my very soul."
               Major Burr turned as if he would read the countenance of his companion; but the
                  darkness forbade that, and he could only press her arm in acknowledgment of the
                  confidence he was prepared to receive.
               
               "I shall tell you all frankly, Aaron, because I know you will not betray
                     me, at least. I am in constant communication with those whom you
                  have been taught to look on as enemies; but who, for my sake, dearest, are
                  henceforth your friends. Are they not?"
               For an instant Major Burr was silent. He, of course surmised; nay, knew, from what
                  she had previously said, that she was so strongly attached to the interests of the
                  Royalists, she would not scruple at anything to serve that cause; but he had not
                  known that she was so closely connected with the cause which he had learned to
                  condemn. Indeed, until this moment, he scarcely realized his true position with
                  regard to Margaret, and his pledges to her, so wildly, madly, blindly did he love
                  her. The alternative was now plainly presented to him, and he either must lose
                  her, or, in winning her, sacrifice all he had been accustomed to look upon as
                  sacred and honorable. He must sacrifice name, position, character, reputation, and
                  honor, but his reward would be Margaret. True, she had promised him wealth, rank,
                  and station; but how could she, a mere girl, exercise such influence? If she
                  could, would they restore to him the name and fame and character he must lose; and
                  above all, the consciousness that he had proved faithless to his country's cause?
                  These, and a hundred similar thoughts flashed through his brain in the few moments
                  of silence which followed the last words uttered by Margaret, and his mind was not
                  fixed upon anything definite, nor had he brought himself to resolve on any
                  particular course of action, when he was aroused from his reverie by a gentle
                  pressure of the arm which lay within his own, and at the same time he heard a
                  gentle sigh.
               These recalled him to himself, and seizing the hand which hung over his arm, he
                  raised it to his lips, and murmured: "Dear Margaret, do with me as you choose; but
                  do not tell me more now—do not insist that I shall so soon forget the ties which
                  have hitherto bound me to those with whom I am associated now."
               "I do not ask you, Aaron, to say, or do, nor even to think, anything by which you
                  may be compromised or your fair name tarnished. I only ask that when the hour for
                  action arrives, and it will soon come, you will act with us. Shall that be
                  so?"
               "By my love for you, yes," and he sealed his pledge with a kiss upon her fair
                  hand.
               "Now, Aaron, all I ask is, that you forget what I have told you for the present. I
                  do not need aid from you, for I have means of information as correct as yourself.
                  A very few days will decide which party is to be victorious."
               "A very few days?" echoed the major, inquiringly.
               "Yes, Aaron, a very few days. Even now the whole of his majesty's fleet is close
                  at hand, bearing with it thousands of hardy, tried, and disciplined troops. If the blow which it is contemplated to
                  strike first shall fail, those troops will be landed, and you know how poor a
                  chance your undisciplined and half-clad men would stand against such an army as is
                  already close at hand. I tell you, Aaron," and a glance of pride and triumph
                  crossed her features as she spoke, "this war will be ended in less than three
                  months; the rebellious colonists will be dealt severely with, while those who have
                  remained true to their king, and, above all, those who have abjured or forsaken
                  their errors, will be nobly rewarded. As for you, a few days will suffice to prove
                  that Margaret Moncrieffe has promised nothing which she cannot perform."
               "But, Margaret," inquired the major, almost in a whisper, "it is evident that some
                  plot is hatching—some conspiracy breeding; do you count the consequences of an
                  ultimate discovery, in case it should be ascertained that you were
                  implicated?"
               "My friends here will make every preparation for my security, and at the first
                  alarm we would fly—would we not, Aaron—would you not go with me?"
               "To the end of the world, Margaret. Everything for you—nothing without you. I will
                  not ask, for I do not wish to know, what the plot is; it is better I should not.
                  But I have given my word to you, and no matter what it may be, when the hour for
                  action comes, you will find me ready."
               "Do you know this young Blanchard, of McDougal's regiment?"
               "I was only introduced to him this morning by his brother. What of him?"
               "Nothing especial, only I desire unrestrained communication with him."
               "So far as I can aid in that, no one shall prevent it."
               "I am playing a little game with him."
               "Surely, Margaret, you do not expect to buy him over to your side?"
               "Our side, Aaron. No, that is already done. Gold has done that for him long ago.
                  He had his price, and it was paid."
               "Well, I must confess I am surprised. Are there others of"——
               "Do not ask too much. Nothing is said or done in this city which is not known to
                  Governor Tryon within twelve hours—not an order given which is not reported to
                  him; and his plans are so well laid, and so many have pledged themselves to aid
                  him in carrying them to consummation, that success is certain, and cannot be
                  prevented except by an untimely discovery. Come, now, let us talk of other
                  things," and Margaret, who possessed powers of conversation really fascinating,
                  soon drew her lover from himself, by her vivid description of her beautiful home
                  in England, of the wealth and luxury by which they would be surrounded, when at the close of the war, they could
                  retire thither, and pass their days in the peaceful repose of domestic happiness.
                  She told him of the court and its splendors; charmed him by the brilliant picture
                  she drew of his future career in their new home, and when they parted, almost at
                  midnight, with an ardent embrace, Major Burr was so completely enchanted, he would
                  have enlisted under the banners of Beelzebub, provided Margaret belonged to the
                  corps.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               A DINNER PARTY AND A QUARREL.
               AMONG the notabilities of New York, at the period of which this narration treats,
                  none was more conspicuous than Major Smallwood, who commanded the Maryland
                  battalion, which was distinguished as well for its splendid uniform (described in
                  another chapter) as for the strict discipline which he preserved, despite the
                  great license granted by other commanders. The major was a gallant southerner—a
                  chivalrous, high-toned gentleman. Possessing in his own right an ample fortune, he
                  had devoted that, as he had dedicated his life, to the cause of his country.
               It was his practice to have a regular weekly mess-dinner, to which all the
                  officers of his battalion were invited, and as many friends as his quarters would
                  accommodate.
               On the day after the last interview between the Blanchard brothers, his weekly
                  dinner was given, and having heard, through Captain Barnum, of their relationship,
                  and of the singular manner in which it had been discovered, both had been invited
                  and accepted his invitation, but of
                  course unknown to each other, as from the occasion of the interview before
                  detailed, Arthur had studiously avoided all places where he might meet his
                  brother.
               Chance, or providence, or destiny, placed the brothers far apart at the table.
                  Captain Arthur, the Royalist, was seated next to Captain Edwards, of the
                  battalion, while Edmund had been assigned a seat near Major Smallwood, a
                  compliment intentionally paid in view of the high state of discipline to which he
                  had brought his crops.
               The dinner passed off pleasantly. Wit and jest had flown freely around, and every
                  one seemed to be on the best possible terms with everybody else. The cloth was
                  removed, and the wines being duly placed on the table, the guests were called on
                  severally for their toasts, and all, knowing the peculiar position of Captain
                  Arthur Blanchard, were particular to avoid anything which might be construed into
                  a possible intention to affront him.
               It came at length to the turn of Edmund Blanchard to propose a toast, and as he
                  rose, it was evident he had been indulging too freely in the generous wines which
                  had been set before him.
               When called upon, he arose, and leaning one hand on the table to steady himself,
                  he proposed, "the Ninon d'Enclos of New York—Lizzie Brainard."
               Truth compels me to say, that out of all that company pany present, there were
                  very few who had ever heard or read of "Ninon d'Enclos," and fewer still who could
                  appreciate the allusion conveyed in the toast. Most of them heard only the name of
                  "Lizzie Brainard," and tossed off their glasses, thinking they were toasting her;
                  while others, only half conscious of what they were doing, drank the toast,
                  presuming that it was some special compliment to her.
               There were, however, three present whose glasses remained untouched; Major
                  Smallwood, Captain Edwards, and the Royalist Blanchard.
               As Edmund Blanchard, already affected by the wine he had drunk, tossed off his
                  glass, he turned and glanced around the assemblage; his eye fell first on Captain
                  Edwards, and he said with an asperity of manner excusable only from his condition,
                  "I see you do not drink to my toast, Captain Edwards."
               "I could not, sir," was the reply, coldly delivered.
               "And why not, pray?" asked the young officer, now half aroused to anger, for he
                  had drank just enough to take offence at the slightest cause.
               "I will not insult any woman whom I believe to be honest, truthful and virtuous,
                  by drinking to a sentiment which connects her name with so much infamy."
               At these words many of the young officers who had drank the toast, hearing only
                  Lizzie Brainard's name, pricked up their ears and looked at each other, as if
                  wondering what they had done.
               
               "You are mighty sensitive, sir," said the young officer, again filling his glass.
                  Perhaps you did not hear the toast; let me repeat it."
               "No, sir," responded Captain Edwards, arising, "you need not repeat it; I
                     will not drink it."
               "You will not?" asked Edmund, with a flushed face and flashing eyes.
               "I have said so, sir," quietly responded Captain Edwards. "I will not insult any
                  woman for whom I cherish so much respect as I do for Miss Brainard, by drinking
                  such a toast."
               "That is personal, sir," exclaimed Captain Blanchard, rising.
               "I am content to have it so," coolly replied Captain Edwards, toying with his
                  wine-glass, yet full.
               "You will compel me to feel that you intend to insult me, Captain Edwards."
               "I would rather have you think so, sir, than feel that I could be so base as to
                  drag the name of a virtuous girl into such a connection."
               "Virtuous!" laughed Captain Blanchard. "Oh, very well, sir, if you are her
                  champion, I have no more to say, so you need not drink my toast. You know her, I
                  suppose, as well as I do," and he spoke sneeringly.
               "Gentlemen," said Major Smallwood, "this must stop," and he held up his own glass,
                  yet untouched. "I would not drink to that toast, myself. Captain Edwards wards, I
                  thank you for caring for the honor of our corps."
               "Thank you, major," responded the captain, and as he spoke, he turned his wine
                  upon the floor, with a glance of contempt at Edmund Blanchard.
               "I understand you, sir," said the young Provincial, with a meaning look, "we can
                  settle this hereafter. Major Smallwood, I ask your pardon for having proposed a
                  sentiment which does not seem acceptable to Captain Edwards."
               "Nor to me, sir," coolly said Major Smallwood, interrupting him.
               "Oh, very well, one at a time. Captain Edwards, I drink my respects to you, and
                  our speedy meeting."
               Everybody present knew well what this meant, and no one was surprised when Captain
                  Edwards, who had refilled his glass, turned it off, with a courteous bow to the
                  young Provincial.
               "Come, gentlemen," said Major Smallwood, who had been pained by this interruption
                  to the harmony at the festive board, "allow me to propose a toast, and I scarcely
                  think any gentleman will refuse to join me. If he does, I certainly shall not
                  quarrel with him; I propose the belle of New York—Miss Moncrieffe."
               The toast was responded to, not only by the prompt emptying of every glass, but
                  was hailed with uproarious cheers; for every officer present had either seen
                  Margaret, or had heard marvellous accounts of her matchless beauty and irresistible powers of
                  fascination.
               The harmony of the evening was completely destroyed by the rash conduct of Edmund
                  Blanchard, and the guests departed at a much earlier hour than had been their wont
                  on such occasions. Captain Edwards, as the door was reached, sought for, and took
                  the arm of Captain Arthur Blanchard, and said, as they moved onward: "I suppose I
                  shall have to fight that drunken fool."
               "Yes," replied the captain, "I am afraid you will."
               "Oh, you need not be afraid on my account. I was bred to honor and respect women,
                  and when I heard the name of an honest, virtuous girl brought in such infamous
                  contact, my manhood would not allow me to pass it unnoticed."
               "From your remark, Captain Edwards," said the Royalist, "I surmise that you
                  require the services of a friend."
               "You have guessed rightly," was the response.
               "Are you aware of the relationship existing between the officer who insulted you
                  so grossly, and myself?"
               "Assuredly not. I only know that you bear the same name—surely not an uncommon
                  occurrence in a city garrisoned by thirteen thousand soldiers from every quarter
                  of this widespread land."
               "He is my younger brother—my only living relative—and when I say this, I am sure I
                  have said enough to justify you in pardoning me for not offering my services at
                  this moment."
               "You surprise and distress me, Captain Blanchard," said Captain Edwards, with an
                  expression of pain.
               "Oh, do not feel distressed on my account. I am free to admit that he deserves no
                  mercy at the hands of any gentleman; for a man who would thus ruthlessly drag a
                  woman's name so publicly before a crowd of men, and darken her fair fame by such a
                  foul insinuation, scarcely deserves the honor you intend according to him. But
                  come, leaving her out of the question, how else can I serve you?"
               "Find some one who will act as my friend in this matter; there are plenty in our
                  battalion who would gladly serve me, but I ought not to ask them."
               "I will see you to-morrow before seven o'clock, and bring with me one on whom you
                  can rely. I shall be with you, but not for you, Captain
                  Edwards," he added, sadly.
               "I understand you, captain, and am the more grateful for your present kindness. At
                  seven to-morrow?"
               "At seven, Captain Edwards, you may rely upon me," and as they reached the corner
                  of John street, the friends shook hands; the one to return to his quarters which
                  he had just left, the other wended his way to the house occupied by Mrs. Brainard,
                  for the hour was not too late for a visit there, the dinner-party having been
                  broken up two hours before the usual
                  time, by the rash and inconsiderate conduct of Edmund Blanchard.
               The shop was closed; but the light streaming through the shutters, showed that the
                  family had not retired. His rap at the door was answered, contrary to his
                  expectations, but much to his pleasure, by a gruff, manly voice demanding who was
                  there, and, at the announcement of his name, the door was instantly thrown open,
                  and the captain found himself face to face with a fine, stalwart, hearty-looking
                  young fellow, wearing the uniform of McDougal's regiment.
               "Are you Lieutenant Brainard?" he asked, in a low voice, as he caught sight of the
                  young officer.
               "I am so called," was the reply, civilly returned, as the young soldier surveyed
                  the visitor. "Will you not walk in, Captain Blanchard?"
               "No, I thank you, not just now. Please put on your hat, and walk with me a few
                  steps. Make any excuse to get away from your mother and sister. I wish very much
                  to speak with you in private."
               At this moment Lizzie, who had also heard the knock at the door, and whose heart,
                  ever prompting her to think of Edmund, led her to hope it was himself, approached
                  the door, and seeing the Royalist, pushed past her brother, and, extending her
                  hand, said: "Oh, come in, captain; do come in."
               "Thank you, no. This is your brother, I believe."
               "Oh, I beg your pardon. Brother Albert, this is Captain Blanchard, Edmund's
                  brother, I have so often spoken of to you."
               "Yes, Lizzie, he gave me his name before I opened the door; but he has declined to
                  come in. He has some message for me. I will walk a little way with him, and return
                  soon. Bring my hat, Lizzie; and as his sister went back into the house, Captain
                  Blanchard whispered, "Don't answer any of her questions." Contrary to the usual
                  custom of women, Lizzie brought her brother's hat, and actually suffered them to
                  depart without asking a single question.
               "Well, captain, and in what can I serve you?" asked the young officer, as they
                  moved away from the house, arm in arm.
               "You love your sister very much?" asked Arthur.
               "That is a very singular question to ask me—her brother."
               "She is worthy of your love, my young friend. But now to business. Her name has
                  been most grossly misused to-night, and a friend of mine has taken it up for her.
                  A challenge must follow. Will you serve the gentleman who has taken your sister's
                  part?"
               "No, by heavens!" exclaimed the young officer, firmly, "I will take his
                  place."
               "No, sir, that cannot possibly be. My peculiar position forbids that I should act
                  for him, much as I approve his course. You will know all the circumstances
                  to-morrow. Will you act in my stead, as the friend to him who has rescued your sister's name from infamous
                  insinuations?"
               "In any stead, sir, and thank you for the privilege. You are very kind, Captain
                  Blanchard, to grant me this favor. But who is the scoundrel who has dared to
                  connect my sister's name with anything of wrong?"
               "You will know in due time, and when you learn his name, you will not wonder that
                  I have asked some one to take the place which I ought to have claimed. Now listen
                  to me," and, linking arms with the young captain, he proceeded to narrate the
                  occurrences of the dinner-table, concealing the name, however, of the offending
                  party.
               "And you will act for him?" he asked, when he had closed his narrative.
               "With all my heart, though I would rather take his place. Captain, I am not used
                  to anything of this kind. I must ask you to give me some instructions."
               "Come, then, and share my quarters for the night, and I will put you in the way of
                  serving your sister's friend. I am sorry to say I have been in many similar
                  affairs. Return home now. Make any excuse you choose, and come around to my rooms
                  as soon as you can get away; but be cautious, and do not say anything to alarm
                  Lizzie or your mother."
               The next morning before Captain Blanchard had finished his breakfast, Captain
                  Edwards was at his rooms, and with a smile, handed him the missive he had just
                  received.
               "Captain Edwards," said Arthur, as he took the note, "this is Lieutenant Brainard,
                  the brother of the young lady whose name and reputation you so promptly defended
                  last night, and surely no one has a better right to act for you than himself."
               The captain greeted the young soldier warmly, and a very few minutes sufficed to
                  place him in possession of the circumstances which had led to this call for
                  satisfaction.
               The rage and shame of Albert Brainard, when he learned the name of him who had
                  traduced his sister, were indescribable. He begged and implored the captain to let
                  him take his place; but that was, of course, out of the question, and the
                  preliminaries having been arranged between them, it was settled that the meeting
                  should take place in the Bowery lane (now at the junction of the Third and Fourth
                  Avenues), at an early hour on the following morning, and everything was left to
                  Captain Blanchard and the young Provincial.
               When Captain Edwards had left, Captain Blanchard gradually, but kindly,
                  communicated to him his brother's desertion of Lizzie, and his sudden attachment
                  to Miss Moncrieffe, but he did not dare to tell him all he had heard—that would
                  come to him soon enough, no matter what might be the result of the meeting between
                  the two officers.
               
               Everything being arranged, Albert Brainard returned to his mother's home with a
                  weight upon his heart, such as he had never known before. He dreaded to make known
                  to his sister what he had heard as to the infidelity of Captain Blanchard, to whom
                  he knew she was strongly attached, and whom they had looked upon as her future
                  husband. When he reached the house, he was not sorry to find his mother absent,
                  and taking a seat opposite his sister, in their little parlor, which commanded a
                  full view of the shop, he looked at her as she sat there, the personation of
                  youth, health and innocent beauty, and his heart ached as he dwelt upon the blow
                  which he was about to inflict; and as she raised her eyes from her work and fixed
                  them upon him with looks of sisterly affection, tears gathered in his own. Lizzie
                  perceived the tears coursing down her brother's cheeks, and hastily dropping her
                  work, arose and placing one hand on his shoulder, inquired, soothingly, what ailed
                  him.
               "I have heard some very unpleasant news this morning, Lizzie."
               "I am sorry for you, Albert," she said, smoothing down his hair as she spoke. "Can
                  I do anything to cheer you?"
               "Poor Lizzie!" he said, "you need comfort more than I shall. My news concerns you
                  as deeply as myself."
               "Concerns me, Albert," she exclaimed, with a start, and as she spoke, the color
                  deserted her cheeks.
               "You have heard, of course, of this young lady at General Putnam's—Miss
                  Moncrieffe—everybody is talking about her."
               Lizzie could not reply with words; a choking sensation about the throat prevented
                  her utterance, but she nodded her head affirmatively.
               "Have you heard her name mentioned in connection with that of any officer in the
                  city?"
               Dark forebodings crossed Lizzie's mind, as her brother spoke thus, for her heart
                  half divined what he hesitated to say.
               "How does that concern me, Albert?" she asked, in tones of deep emotion.
               "Edmund Blanchard has forgotten his honor, manhood, and truth, and"——
               "Oh, don't say that, brother!" Lizzie exclaimed, in tones of agony, and as she
                  spoke a shudder ran through her frame.
               "Lizzie, dear, my darling sister, remember who you are, and what you owe to
                  yourself. Edmund Blanchard is unworthy the love of any virtuous woman"——
               Before he could finish the sentence, the hapless girl, through whose busy brain
                  ran with lightning speed the memory of her past, and the prospect of her dark,
                  dismal future; the sacrifices she had made for him who had now proved faithless;
                  the terrible consequences which must result from a discovery of her shame—a mother
                  broken-hearted, a brother disgraced—and, for herself, the scorn and contempt of the world—all flashed
                  across her mind, and with one deep sob, she made an effort to approach her
                  brother, but ere she could reach him, sank heavily upon the floor in a death-like
                  swoon.
               Albert Brainard had expected tears and reproaches, but he had not looked for such
                  a demonstration of feeling, and, affrighted, he sprang forward and lifting the
                  helpless girl, laid her upon a couch which stood on one side of the room.
               Fortunately, during this scene, no person had entered the shop, and Albert had,
                  therefore, ample opportunity to attend to his helpless sister, and was enabled to
                  avoid the answering of any questions. In a few minutes, by the aid of water and
                  the application of such simple restoratives as he could lay his hands on, Lizzie
                  recovered her consciousness; and when she languidly opened her eyes, she met those
                  of her brother fixed upon her with an expression of love and pity.
               A deep sigh broke from her lips, a shudder ran through her frame, and as she
                  closed her eyes again, her brother perceived tears trickling through the closed
                  lids.
               "Oh, Lizzie!" he murmured, bending over her, "did you so love that worthless
                  villain?"
               Lizzie made no reply, but shook her head languidly and mournfully, conveying an
                  impression deeper than any which mere words could express.
               "No matter, my dear sister, he will have his punishment ment soon. He insulted
                  Captain Edwards last night and he has been challenged. They meet to-morrow, and if
                  Captain Edwards does not shoot him, I will."
               Still Lizzie made no reply; but as she heard these words, her tears flowed more
                  freely, and her whole frame was convulsed with indescribable emotion. What booted
                  his death to her? Would it restore her honor sacrificed on the altar of her
                  trusting love? Would it screen her from the scorn of the world? These and similar
                  thoughts crossed her, and as her brother finished speaking, she arose from her
                  recumbent position slowly, and fixing her eyes, still running over with tears, on
                  him, said: "I hardly know if I have heard you rightly, Albert; were you saying
                  that Edmund Blanchard had proved false to me?"
               "False to you, and faithless to every sentiment of honor, truth, or manhood. Miss
                  Moncrieffe, it seems, has so completely"——
               "Miss Moncrieffe!" exclaimed Lizzie, actually dashing away the tears from her
                  eyes; "and he has deserted me for her? Brother, I must see that woman."
               "Woman, Lizzie! she is hardly more than a child."
               "Be she what she may, I must and will see her. She shall know, at least, his
                  faithlessness and my wrongs."
               "It would be folly, Lizzie—it would be worse than folly—besides, it would only
                  bring on you remarks which now will
                  never be made; for no one but ourselves know of the affair."
               "The whole city will ring with it ere long, Albert," she replied, sadly, though he
                  little dreamed of the full import of her words. "Yes, my dear brother, the city
                  will know it all in time," and she shuddered as she spoke; for the thoughts of the
                  certain infamy which would be entailed on her, and the misery which would be
                  brought on those who loved her so dearly, flashed through her brain. "No, Albert,
                  I must see Miss Moncrieffe—I will see her, and you must not try to
                  prevent me. I do not believe that she, whatever she may be, would receive the
                  attentions of a man like Edmund Blanchard when she knows the truth. Come, brother,
                  I am better," and she wiped the tears from her eyes; and with a great effort,
                  regained her composure, at least to outward appearances.
               "I think you do yourself a great wrong, in humbling yourself before Miss
                  Moncrieffe or any other woman."
               "I shall not humble myself, rest assured. I cannot forget the respect I owe to
                  myself or my family; so, dear brother, have no fears for me on that score. I only
                  desire that Miss Moncrieffe shall know my position with regard to Edmund
                  Blanchard, and then she may take her own course."
               "I suppose you feel that you are acting right; but I cannot agree with you—so act
                  at your own pleasure. I must go and finish my preparations for the meeting which
                  is to take place to-morrow morning."
               The entrance of Mrs. Brainard at this moment put an end to the conversation on
                  this subject; for, by tacit consent, brother and sister agreed not to distress her
                  by communicating intelligence which they knew would cause her so much
                  wretchedness.
               Albert soon took his leave, with a meaning glance at his sister, which was
                  returned, and in a few minutes, Lizzie, making some pretence for her absence, put
                  on her hat and shawl and left the house.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               MARGARET AND LIZZIE BRAINARD.
               MISS MONCRIEFFE was seated in her own room; her sewing lay unnoticed in her lap,
                  and, from the expression of her countenance, it was evident that she was engrossed
                  in pleasant thoughts.
               "A young woman to see you," said Belle Putnam, gently opening the door, without
                  waiting for an answer to her summons.
               Margaret started from her reverie, and, hastily passing her hand across her
                  forehead, as if to collect her wandering thoughts, said, with an expression of
                  surprise: "A young woman, Belle, to see me?"
               "Yes, my lady," replied Belle, with an affectation of profound respect; for, since
                  the little escapade of the letter from Governor Tryon, so skillfully
                  misinterpreted, Belle had made a confidant of Margaret, and had intrusted to her
                  the secret of her own heart. "Your ladyship, I suppose, expected"——
               "My ladyship didn't expect anything or anybody," said Margaret, with a smile. "But
                  really, I can't imagine what any young woman can want with me; I don't know half a
                  dozen ladies in the city, and they would not feel flattered to hear Miss Belle
                  Putnam call them young women! But no matter, I will see her here if you have no
                  objections. There may be somebody in the parlor, and perhaps she desires to see me
                  in private," and as she spoke, the thought crossed her mind that the visitor might
                  be some emissary from her Royalist friends, who had found it necessary to
                  communicate with her through such a medium.
               In a very few moments the door was closed upon a young and certainly very handsome
                  woman, a stranger to Margaret, who, scanning her hastily, and perceiving she was
                  neatly dressed, invited her to take a seat; and as the stranger sank into a chair,
                  Margaret, with another hasty glance, discovered she was pale, was trembling
                  excessively, and that her eyes bore traces of recent tears.
               "What can I do for you?" she asked, in kind and earnest tones.
               For an instant her visitor, Lizzie Brainard, could not speak. Sobs were rising in
                  her throat, which she choked down with a strong effort, and tears were coming from
                  her eyes, which she vainly strove to force back.
               Margaret noticed her excessive agitation, and paused a moment to allow her to
                  recover her composure.
               "Come, young lady," she repeated at length, "in what can I serve you?"
               "In all—in everything—and you alone can serve me," replied Lizzie, clasping her
                  hands, and looking up to Margaret with streaming eyes.
               
               "Then I will, most assuredly," said Margaret, whose interest was already awakened
                  in the young stranger, for as the reader has already discovered, she was one of
                  those impulsive creatures who act always on the first promptings of her
                  feelings.
               "Oh, thank and bless you," said Lizzie, striving to dry her tears.
               "Never mind thanks yet. Now what can I do?"
               "Captain Blanchard," said Lizzie. "You know him?"
               "Oh, yes," said Margaret, for the instant thrown off her guard, supposing Lizzie
                  was a messenger from the Royalist captain; "he has known me ever since I was a
                  child; he is a very dear friend of my father's."
               "I did not know you had ever met before," said Lizzie, her countenance expressing
                  the disappointment she experienced at these words. "Edmund never mentioned your
                  name to me."
               "Oh, Captain Edmund, you mean," said Margaret, glad that she had not committed
                  herself, yet wondering what could have brought this strange girl to her with that
                  name on her lips.
               "Yes, Miss Moncrieffe, that is the one I mean. I do not know his brother; I never
                  saw him but once, to know them as brothers. I am speaking of Captain Edmund
                  Blanchard."
               "You speak very familiarly of him," said Margaret, eyeing her visitor with a keen,
                  scrutinizing glance.
               "I have a right to do so, Miss Moncrieffe."
               "But in what can I serve you, so far as he is concerned?" and Margaret looked at
                  Lizzie with an air of surprise.
               "In what can you serve me? Why, Miss Moncrieffe, are you not engaged to him?—I do
                  not mean exactly that," she interrupted herself, seeing the heightened color on
                  Margaret's cheeks. "Is he not paying attention to you?"
               "Pray tell me, young woman, first what is your name? I can converse with you
                  perhaps, with more freedom when I know it."
               "Lizzie Brainard."
               "Then, Lizzie, pray tell me what earthly reason you have for asking me such an
                  absurd, such a ridiculous, question? I won't call it impertinent, for I think I
                  can interpret the motive of your visit, and I will ease your mind at once. I never
                  saw Captain Blanchard—your captain—more than half a dozen times in my life, and
                  have no more thoughts of him than a score of others, who find amusement in paying
                  compliments and flatteries to me."
               "And is he not paying attention to you? Oh, do excuse my freedom, miss, but I am
                  very unhappy. I only heard this morning that he was paying attentions to you, and
                  that he had spoken slightingly of me, and it made me very unhappy to hear it, I
                  assure you."
               "If Captain Blanchard has said anything by which any one might connect my name with his own, he has
                  uttered a willful, malicious falsehood. I have never given him reason to think
                  that I would receive his attentions, and certainly, knowing what I now do, I would
                  not, on any consideration. So take heart, Lizzie, and believe me, I do not care a
                  pin's head for your captain, nor do I believe he does for me, except that he has
                  seen a new face, though I am sure yours is pretty enough for any one," and she
                  gazed earnestly at Lizzie, whose countenance, while Margaret was speaking, had
                  been gradually lighted up with pleasure. "But is there anything else in which I
                  can serve you?"
               "Oh, yes, Miss Moncrieffe. You are here at headquarters—do have that duel stopped.
                  I have heard that you can do almost anything with General Putnam."
               "Duel, child! I do not know what you are talking about. You have not said anything
                  about a duel."
               "Yes, miss, last night Edmund and Captain Edwards, of Major Smallwood's corps,
                  quarrelled, and they are to fight to-morrow morning. Oh, do stop it, Miss
                  Moncrieffe."
               "What was the cause of this quarrel? No matter what was the cause; for your sake
                  Lizzie, as you have come to me, I will stop it; so you may rest quiet on that
                  score."
               "Thank you, again and again, Miss Moncrieffe. You have made me very happy."
               "And you love Captain Blanchard so much?"
               "Oh, better than my life, miss—better than words can tell."
               "And he was deserting you on my account?"
               "So I heard from my brother."
               "Well, well—set your heart at rest. The duel shall not come off, and, I pledge you
                  my word, your captain shall never see me but once more."
               After a further short conversation, in the course of which Margaret reassured poor
                  Lizzie of the interest she took in her, she took leave of Margaret with a light
                  heart, for she felt that once Edmund was without the pale of Margaret's charms,
                  she could win back his waning love.
               Margaret was prompt to act as to speak, and before three hours had passed,
                  Captains Blanchard and Edwards were summoned to General Putnam's quarters.
               "Gentlemen," said the bluff old general, when they stood before him, "the enemy is
                  expected here daily, and no one knows when our city may be attacked. Our country
                  needs every man for its defence, and you have no right to throw away, in a private
                  quarrel, lives which belong to your country."
               The captains looked at each other in amazement, for they could not imagine how the
                  matter had come to the general's ears, but they bowed an acquiescence to his
                  remarks.
               
               "Unless," continued the general, "you pledge to me your words as gentlemen to
                  pursue this no further, for the present, at least, I shall put you both under
                  arrest, and keep you there until after the battle, which we will have soon to
                  fight, is decided. You are both brave men, I know, and I think this might be
                  arranged. Come, tell me what it is all about?"
               "I beg your pardon, general," said Captain Edwards, "I leave that to Captain
                  Blanchard."
               "General Putnam," said the officer thus applied to, "I was wrong; I acted rashly
                  and foolishly. Captain Edwards, if I had not been drinking, I should not have said
                  what I did, nor acted as I did. I am really sorry for it, and ask your
                  pardon."
               "That's right—that's manly," fairly shouted the general. "Captain Edwards give him
                  your hand. There; I like that," he continued, as the late foes shook hands.
                  "Captain Edwards, will you do me the favor to say to Major Smallwood I wish very
                  much to see him;" and the captain, with a cool salute to Captain Blanchard, bowed
                  himself out.
               "Captain Blanchard," said the general, "Miss Moncrieffe has intrusted me with a
                  request to see you; you will find her in the parlor;" and with a very distant
                  salute, he pointed to the door of the parlor, which adjoined the office in which
                  they had been seated.
               Captain Blanchard entered the room with a feeling of apprehension for which he
                  could not account, and his heart fairly sunk within him as he saw Margaret seated
                  there.
               Closing the door, he approached her, but she did not rise or invite him to take a
                  seat, but gazed upon him with a look of sternness and contempt, strangely
                  blended.
               "Captain Blanchard," she said, with a cold, stern expression, as he stood before
                  her, unable to bear the gaze of her piercing eyes, "I have heard that you have
                  been taking most unwarrantable liberties with my name."
               "Oh, Margaret!"——he exclaimed.
               But she hastily interrupted him, by saying: "Miss Moncrieffe, sir. You will please
                  to remember, Captain Blanchard, that a few harmless pleasantries passed between a
                  lady and a gentleman," and she placed a terrible emphasis on that word, "do not
                  give him the privilege of boasting of a conquest, nor using her name in such close
                  connection with his own, as I have heard that you have done with mine. I wish you
                  good morning, sir;" and before the astounded officer could reply, she arose with
                  the grace and dignity of a queen, and moving toward the door, turned to him and
                  added, "you had better go and ask pardon of one who has much greater cause of
                  complaint than I have, against you. It was for her sake, sir, and not for yours,
                  and I have to tell you this, for fear you might boast of my interest in you, that
                  I have interfered to stop this meeting
                  ing. Good morning, captain," and before he could recover from his stupefaction,
                  Captain Blanchard was alone.
               He did not dare face General Putnam, for he knew that Margaret had communicated
                  everything to him, but stole quietly out of the house and moved moodily toward his
                  quarters, cursing himself, Margaret, and more and deeper than all, poor, disgraced
                  Lizzie, whom he conjectured, though he knew not why, was at the bottom of the
                  whole.
               Captain Edwards, ignorant, of course, of the cause which had interfered with the
                  meeting, retired to his quarters, where he found Lieutenant Brainard awaiting him,
                  to whom he communicated the affair which had just transpired, and he at once made
                  known to his friend, his belief that his sister and Miss Moncrieffe had outwitted
                  the whole of them. He then communicated to the captain his position and that of
                  his sister, with reference to Captain Blanchard, and expressed a determination to
                  seek the earliest opportunity of insulting him so grossly that no apology could be
                  received. Captain Edwards of course proffered his services, which were accepted,
                  and after a glass of wine the friends parted.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               CONSEQUENCES OF SETH'S ESCAPE.
               THE attempt to send a spy among the Royalists who were in the habit of frequenting
                  Corbie's house, and its failure, had shown to the conspirators that they were
                  watched, because suspected, and it was therefore resolved no more assemblages
                  should be held there for especial purposes, but that henceforth their
                  head-quarters should be at the tavern of Thomas Mason, also a devoted Royalist,
                  which being situated directly opposite General Putnam's residence, would be less
                  liable to suspicion; for it was very natural to suppose that the general would not
                  think of looking for a nest of conspirators at his very door.
               Mason's house, which was known by the sign of the "Highlanders," was therefore the
                  place whence all communications would emanate for the future.
               Corbie's (from its proximity to the river, and the facility which its situation
                  afforded for landing of a boat without fear of discovery) was still the depot for
                  the receipt of the letters and messages so constantly passing between Governor
                  Tryon and Mayor Matthews (then at
                  Flatbush) and the Tory residents of the city who had joined the ranks of the
                  conspirators.
               Forbes and Corbie took upon themselves to inform the leaders in the city of the
                  occurrences narrated in a previous chapter, and to give the necessary caution as
                  to their future watchfulness; for a discovery now, would not only foil all their
                  plans, but would probably send many of them to the gallows; a fate which, however
                  merited, they were not yet prepared to meet.
               A few days after the disappearance of Seth Adams, General Washington returned to
                  the city from his official visit to Philadelphia, and a council of generals being
                  convened, he communicated to them the certain information that the fleet under
                  Admiral Howe, with a very large body of troops, including several thousand Hessian
                  soldiers all under the command of Lord Howe, were even now on the voyage to New
                  York, which would be the first point of attack, and who might be expected
                  daily.
               Orders were given for the strengthening of all the fortifications on the island
                  which would present any point of attack to the invaders, and Long Island, within
                  the circuit of several miles from the city, was directed to be fortified and
                  occupied, as a landing would most probably be first attempted there.
               The most stringent rules were promulgated for the government of the Tory residents
                  of the city; many were sent out of the city; others, who had given bonds for their
                  good behavior, and pledged themselves not to take side against the colonists, were
                  imprisoned, on information that they had violated their parole by too free speech,
                  as well as by their actions, among which was the refusal to take Continental money
                  at par. The houses of Corbie, Mason, Houndling, and of Forbes, the noted gunsmith,
                  all devoted Royalists, were put under strict surveillance, and the difficulty of
                  communication between the conspirators on board the Duchess of Gordon, and those
                  in the city, was very much augmented by the measures thus adopted.
               Every officer and soldier was now more constantly and busily engaged than ever, in
                  carrying out the orders of the commander-in-chief, and Major Burr found few
                  opportunities of private conversation with Margaret; but even in the moments which
                  they managed to steal unnoticed, their vows of mutual love and fidelity were again
                  and again renewed, and Margaret comforted her lover by the assurance that the hour
                  for action was near at hand, and that their future would be all sunlight and
                  happiness.
               On one occasion she found time to say to him, while a bright smile illumined her
                  face, "I told you, Colonel Burr, I would keep my promise."
               "So you really meant it, Margaret?" he asked, eagerly.
               "Did I ever deceive you, Aaron?"
               
               "Never, Margaret, never."
               "I have in my apartment, at this moment, the commission of a colonel in the army
                  of King George, in blank, which awaits only the insertion of your name by me, to
                  confer upon you the rank and title which I promised should be yours."
               "How little worth would that be without you," he said, gazing with looks of fond
                  devotion upon the lovely speaker who had so enslaved him.
               And she spoke the truth. Governor Tryon, who could not but acknowledge the
                  valuable and most important services she was constantly rendering to the king's
                  cause, could not, and did not deny her request, but dispatched to her the
                  commission she had desired, in blank, leaving her to insert such name as she might
                  select, receiving however, her assurance that it was intended for one of whom the
                  Royal army might be proud, and who, young as he was, had won a name and reputation
                  excelled by none in the army, for every quality which goes to make up the soldier;
                  one, whose name, however, from prudential reasons, she thought proper not to
                  disclose at the present time. Governor Tryon had already received such abundant
                  evidence of her discretion, that he was perfectly willing to trust her to any
                  extent, and therefore his readiness to confide to her such an important document
                  in blank.
               The gaieties of the city were nearly suspended by the necessity for making
                  preparations to receive the enemy; but the wives and families of such officers as
                  were on the island continued to visit each other, and, of course, on these
                  occasions the posture of affairs was freely canvassed.
               What Margaret did not hear in person, she was sure to hear through Belle or
                  Mattie, who were glad enough to escape from the spinning-wheel, and steal a
                  gossipping chat with Margaret.
               Everything she heard—everything she saw—was immediately made known to Governor
                  Tryon, through the Royalist Blanchard, who had said with truth, and it might be
                  escaped any taint of suspicion, that no one in the city had rendered such
                  essential service to the cause of the Royalists, as did Margaret Moncrieffe.
               The sentry who was in charge of the "brig," had quite forgotten all about his
                  prisoner's request, and his own gruff reply; for he had resumed the attempt to
                  read as soon as Seth had turned away, and was thus occupied when his relief came
                  to take his place. With a yawn, and a few curses upon the weather, he gave up his
                  post, and retired to his hammock, entirely unmindful of what had transpired, and
                  never once cast his eyes toward the prisoners over whom he had been placed in
                  charge. The other marine, of course, knew nothing of what had occurred before he
                  went on his post, and, taking up the book which his companion had thrown down on the mess-chest, he was very soon as
                  deeply absorbed in its pages as his comrade had been.
               This neglect on the part of the marine was most fortunate for Seth; for he was a
                  prisoner of so much importance, and was in possession of such weighty secrets
                  (though it was thought that he knew nothing beyond what he had heard at Corbie's,
                  while he lay gagged and bound), his safe keeping was most essential, and instant
                  pursuit in every direction would have followed the information that he was
                  missing.
               It was not until daylight, when all hands were turned out, and the master-at-arms
                  came, as usual, to resume his charge of the prisoners, that he was missed, and the
                  information was at once communicated to Governor Tryon and Captain Chiffney. Great
                  was the trouble and confusion incident upon this revelation. A thorough and strict
                  search was made in every part of the ship, and every spot not half large enough to
                  have held a boy of ten years of age, much less the stalwart young soldier, was
                  ransacked; but, as may be imagined, the search was unavailing. The sentries in
                  charge of the "brig" during the night (four in number), were called up and
                  examined. Each swore through thick and thin that the prisoners were all secured
                  when they took post, and they swore to what they really believed; but this did not
                  save them. A prisoner, and a most important one, had escaped from one of them, and
                  as the guilty one could not be found out, all were treated alike.
               The formality of a court-martial was not necessary, and within two hours after the
                  discovery that Seth Adams had escaped, each of them had received three dozen with
                  the cat well laid on, and were permitted to groan and writhe upon the berth deck,
                  until the condition of their lacerated backs might enable them to return to their
                  duty.
               Governor Tryon held a consultation with Captain Chiffney and the principal naval
                  and army officers on board, upon this occasion. As all the evidence went to show
                  that the prisoner, when last seen, was securely ironed, it was deemed impossible
                  that he could have escaped alive if he had fallen or jumped overboard. Even had
                  his hands been free, it was deemed equally impossible that he could have reached
                  the shore on such a night; but, to make matters more sure, a boat was dispatched
                  to Staten Island to ascertain if any person had landed within range of any of the
                  sentries which lined the shore during the night.
               The assurance being given that no one had been seen, the presumption seemed fair
                  that he had fallen or jumped overboard in an insane attempt to escape, and had
                  been drowned, and the majesty of the law "martial" having been vindicated by the
                  punishment of the offending marines, nothing more was said about it. But Colonel
                  Fanning was instructed, on the occasion
                  of his next visit to Corbie's with dispatches, to notify him of the circumstances,
                  at the same time, however, intimating the impression of the governor as to the
                  impossibility of Seth's escape.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               THE PATRIOT GIRL.
               THE stringent orders issued by the commander-in-chief, on resuming his command,
                  rendered, as has been said, communication between the conspirators more than
                  usually hazardous. But the stake was too great to be lost sight of, and the boat
                  continued to ply between the "Duchess of Gordon," the head-quarters of Governor
                  Tryon, and the city, a set of signals having been arranged, by which due warning
                  of danger was given. Corbie had been, in accordance with the instructions of
                  Governor Tryon, informed of the loss or escape of Seth Adams, a matter, however,
                  which he treated so lightly, that he had mentioned it in jest to Forbes and one or
                  two of his intimates, and they agreed with the governor as to the impossibility of
                  his having escaped alive.
               They therefore continued to send and receive messages as usual, though with more
                  than the ordinary caution, for as the crisis approached, they realized not only
                  their own personal danger, but feared for the success of the important enterprise
                  in which they were embarked. Thus far everything had prospered as well as could be desired. More than five
                  hundred men were enlisted with them, many bound to the cause by ties of loyalty
                  which nothing could shake, others bought over by gold and promises of future
                  grandeur. They awaited now only the arrival of the fleet bearing Lord Howe, and
                  the mine laid with such consummate skill and caution was ready to be sprung, and
                  while they are reposing in this fancied security, let us turn to Seth Adams.
               "Seth, dear Seth," said the old lady, as he gave signs of returning animation,
                  after swallowing the rum Patsy had brought him, "what on airth does this
                  mean?"
               "Wait a little, aunty," said Seth, in a feeble voice, for he was weakened almost
                  to helplessness. "Patsy, give me some more," and the bottle was again handed to
                  him, from which he drew another hearty pull. "Now, aunty," he said, straightening
                  himself up. "Oh, Patsy! I forgot—bring me something," and he pointed to his naked
                  and bleeding body. "Never mind them, they are only scratches," and as he spoke,
                  Patsy had run into the adjoining room, and returned almost immediately with some
                  of her late father's clothes. "There, that will do—that's enough for the present,
                  Patsy," he said, as he slipped a shirt over his bleeding shoulders. "I have no
                  time now for ceremony. Patsy, you or aunt must go to the city to-day."
               "Go to the city!" they exclaimed in a breath, but before they could say more, he
                  interrupted them, saying:
               "Yes, to the city, and that immediately. Now listen to me. I am too weak, too
                  exhausted, to attempt it, and it is absolutely necessary that some one should
                  go—nay, must go."
               "My dear Seth," said Patsy, smoothing down his tangled, matted hair, "you are not
                  yourself—you are wild; wait—rest a while; get some sleep, and then you can say
                  what you wish, and"——
               "Patsy," exclaimed Seth, rising from his chair with a great effort, for he was
                  really almost exhausted by his long immersion in the water, and his subsequent
                  journey through the woods, "listen to me. The safety of General Washington—perhaps
                  the fate of our country—depends on you or me being in the city to-night. I am
                  willing to go, but I know I never could reach it alive, and you"——
               "Oh, Seth, Seth, what do you mean?" exclaimed Patsy, whose patriotic soul had been
                  fired by these words.
               "Listen to me a few moments," he said, sinking languidly back in his chair, for he
                  was too weak to stand longer; "I was taken prisoner ten days ago in New York; I've
                  been on board the 'Duchess of Gordon' a prisoner until last night, when, by God's
                  help, I escaped. Now, Patsy, even if I was strong enough to reach the city, as a
                  man I might be over taken and captured
                  by some one, for no one would believe what I have to tell. Will you go to the
                  city?"
               "Anything, Seth. I will crawl there on my hands and knees, if I can serve the
                  dear, good General Washington."
               "Then, Patsy, you must go, if you have to walk every step of the way. Now hearken
                  to me, for time is precious. You must go directly to Major Burr," and as he
                  uttered that name, Patsy colored deeply, for with true maidenly modesty, she
                  shrank from seeking one toward whom she was so peculiarly situated. "Yes, Patsy,"
                  he continued, noticing her heightened color, "go directly to Major Burr, for he
                  got me into this infernal scrape, and I suppose he thinks I have deserted. Tell
                  him I was seized, bound and gagged at Corbie's on the night he sent me there; that
                  I have been on board the 'Duchess of Gordon' ever since, and only escaped last
                  night by swimming ashore. Say to him that a plot is on foot, which, if not stopped
                  now, will result in ruin to our cause. The city is full of conspirators; I can't
                  name all of them, for I have not heard the names, but a boat goes up almost every
                  night to Corbie's house from the ship. I know that a Captain Blanchard is one of
                  them, and there was said something about a woman, who gave them every information.
                  Corbie, to whose house the major sent me, and Forbes, the gunsmith, are mixed up
                  with it. Tell him that, as soon as the British fleet comes in, it is their plan to
                  sail up either river; that the Tories in the city, and the men whom they have
                  bought over, intend to make an attack on General Washington's quarters, take him
                  prisoner, blow up the magazines, and destroy King's Bridge, and that their hope
                  is, when Washington is secured, the rebels, as they call us, hemmed in on the
                  island, will be glad to come to terms at once. I have picked this up on board the
                  ship. I know—I feel it is true. Will you, Patsy, make it known to him?"
               "Will I, Seth? What a question to ask. I'll go this very hour."
               "Yes, Patsy, delay now might be fatal to the country. Tell Major Burr that as soon
                  as I can stir I shall be at my post."
               "Did you ever see that young girl who was staying with us, Seth?" and Patsy
                  colored as she spoke.
               "I have never seen her; but I have heard of her almost every day. She is quite a
                  character in the city, and is invited everywhere. Come, Patsy, get your breakfast
                  and be off. You will have a long ride."
               "I am to have a long walk, Seth," she replied, with a quiet but meaning smile; and
                  the young soldier looked in her face for an explanation, for he knew they owned a
                  horse.
               "Old grey was stolen a couple of weeks since; but no matter, I may find some one
                  going to the city, and get a ride a
                  part of the way. But, ride or walk, General Washington shall know what you have
                  told me before I sleep to-night."
               "God bless you, brave Patsy!" said Seth, warmly; "you deserve to be a soldier's
                  wife, and I hope you'll get a good one for a husband."
               "Go along," she said, coloring deeply; for she knew he was aware of her attachment
                  to Major Burr, and, moving away, she commenced preparations for the morning
                  meal.
               Rest and the generous liquor which he had swallowed, had already so far restored
                  Seth, he sat up and joined in the conversation of the family. Once or twice he
                  arose, and essayed to move across the floor; but his limbs were so sore and
                  stiffened by their long immersion in the water, and by his tremendous efforts to
                  force his way through the woods, the attempt proved futile, and he sunk back in
                  his seat with a heavy sigh and groan.
               "There, Seth; don't try," said Patsy, as she hurried to and fro, preparing the
                  frugal meal; "it will only keep you back, and I know how anxious you are to return
                  to your post and pay off the score you owe the Royalists. Suppose I can't find
                  Major Burr, shall I go directly to General Washington?" she asked, pausing in the
                  middle of her work, and addressing the young soldier.
               "Of course, Patsy—of course; the information concerns cerns him directly. By the
                  way, I remember now I heard the name of a man named Hickey as one of the
                  conspirators. There is a guardsman of that name, but it can't be him. I wonder who
                  that woman can be?" he said, half to himself, and evidently striving to recall
                  something he had forgotten. "No matter; don't forget the names I have told you
                  already."
               "Never fear, Seth," replied Patsy, her eye kindling with pleasure as she spoke, at
                  the thought of the important service it was to be her privilege to render to the
                  cause of her country.
               "Come, let me draw you up, Seth," she said, approaching the soldier; but, to her
                  surprise, he made no reply, and, on looking closely at him, she discovered that
                  his exhausted nature had succumbed, and even while listening to her, sleep had
                  overcome him.
               "Hush, mother!" she said, softly, placing one hand on her lips, and with the other
                  pointing to the sleeping youth.
               "Poor Seth! he has had a terrible time of it; just think, Patsy, of his being in
                  the water so long, and then walking through them woods after all that. Poor
                  fellow! how he must have suffered."
               "Come, mother, sit down; I must be off as soon as possible—let me see," and she
                  turned to a large, old-fashioned clock, which stood in one corner of the
                  kitchen—"it's now half-past six. By smart walking, I ought to be there before
                  twelve. Perhaps I may get a ride—who
                  knows?—no matter. Now," she continued, between the mouthfuls, "don't be frightened
                  if I am not at home to-night. If I have to walk all the way, I am sure I shan't be
                  back to-day; so be easy. Seth will be with you. Now my hat," and hastily
                  swallowing the remainder of her cup of coffee, went to her room, and returned in a
                  few moments attired for her journey.
               "There, good bye mother, till I see you again," she said, as the tears gathered in
                  her eyes, and she held up her mouth for the mother's kiss; but her mother, rising
                  from her chair, approached, and, placing a hand on either shoulder, said, with an
                  air of solemnity:
               "May the Lord bless and keep my dear, brave daughter on her journey of duty. Go,
                  Patsy, and God grant you a safe return." Then flinging herself on her daughter's
                  neck, she gave away to the emotions she had long struggled to keep down.
               For a moment or two, mother and daughter mingled their tears; and at length, with
                  a long kiss of love, Patsy withdrew from her parent's embrace, and, with one
                  lingering look, in which her glance took in everything in the room, she boldly
                  stepped from the door, and started alone and unprotected on her perilous but most
                  important mission.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               THE PLOT DISCLOSED.
               MARGARET MONCRIEFFE was walking in the garden of General Putnam's house, which, as
                  has been said, at that period ran nearly down to the water's edge, and which was
                  beautifully laid out with trees and shrubbery and flowers. It was in full sight of
                  Fort George, the site of the present Battery, and commanded also a fine view of
                  the spot where the periaguas and other boats which were plying to and from Paulus
                  Hook, landed their passengers.
               It was a little past noon, and as a fresh breeze was blowing from the southwest,
                  the air was refreshingly cool, coming as it did over such an expanse of water.
               Margaret always chose the garden as her resort when she wished to meditate, and
                  many a brief but important communication had been made to her over the fence which
                  separated the garden from the road which led to the ferry-landing, now known as
                  Battery Place.
               She was walking in the garden, evidently in high good humor with herself and
                  everybody else. Her star was now in the ascendant; she loved with all the depth
                  and intensity of her passionate nature, and was beloved in return, and if anything could have
                  endeared her lover more to her, it was the fact that he had for her sake, joined
                  the cause in which every feeling of her heart was enlisted.
               She had rendered essential service to that cause, and had received her reward, not
                  only in the high commendations and warm thanks of Governor Tryon, but in the
                  commission which she had been enabled to procure for her betrothed. Her active,
                  busy brain was at work still, for as long as there was work to be done, she must
                  keep in motion. Everything thus far had gone on swimmingly; the plans of Governor
                  Tryon had succeeded to his entire satisfaction. He had not only many hundreds of
                  devoted Royalists in the city ready to act at the proper moment, but many valuable
                  acquisitions had been made to their ranks from the Continental troops. The mine
                  was constructed, the fuse laid, and on the signal from the proper source it was
                  ready to be lighted, and death and destruction scattered abroad by the
                  explosion.
               While meditating upon her possible future when the war should be over, and she
                  should be united to her heart's master, surrounded in her own country by all the
                  appliances of wealth and luxury, and blessed with his companionship, she chanced
                  to turn her eyes toward the river, and perceived a periagua which plied regularly
                  between the city and Paulus Hook, approaching the landing.
               She went to the fence which skirted the garden, and shaded by a cherry-tree which
                  was near by, stood watching its approach, and the persons who were passengers, of
                  whom there seemed to be quite a number.
               There were farmers with produce for the city, some soldiers from the breast-works
                  at Paulus Hook, and three females. As they landed from the boat, they passed near
                  the spot where she was standing, one by one, and when nearly all were gone, she
                  turned to resume her walking and thinking.
               At that moment one of the females approached close to the spot where she was
                  standing, and instantly Margaret's attention was attracted to her; for a casual
                  glance at the dusty, travel-worn, flushed and heated woman, disclosed a familiar
                  face—that of Patsy Adams, who, somewhat rested after her long and toilsome walk,
                  by her sail across the bay, for she had walked the entire distance, was moving
                  slowly along, ever and anon casting glances at the house occupied by General
                  Putnam.
               "Patsy," exclaimed Margaret, as she caught sight of the well-remembered face; and
                  Patsy turned to the place whence the voice proceeded. At first she did not
                  discover any one, and thinking that her ears must have deceived her, was turning
                  away, when Margaret, in louder tones, repeated her name, and added: "Here, Patsy,
                  it's Margaret; don't you see me?"
               For an instant Patsy looked again in the direction of the voice, and this time she
                  discovered Margaret's face peering over
                  the fence, and as she approached, Margaret addressed her in kind tones,
                  saying:
               "Why, Patsy, how very hot and tired you look. Where did you come from?"
               "From home, and on foot. But how well you look, Margaret," and she gazed with a
                  pang at the beautiful girl, for she had not forgotten that he whom she loved, and
                  had breathed vows of love to her, had been under the influence of such charms
                  since they had parted.
               "Oh, I am well enough. But what on earth could have induced you to walk such a
                  distance on such a day?"
               "Oh, that's a secret," said Patsy, with a quiet smile.
               "I want to see Major Burr; can you tell me where he is now?"
               "Oh, I suppose," replied Margaret, carelessly, though she understood the point of
                  Patsy's question, "he's in the office. Did you come all the way on foot on such a
                  day to see him, Patsy?" and Margaret looked searchingly at the young girl.
               "I did," was the reply, and as she spoke, Patsy drew herself up, with an
                  expression on her countenance which conveyed to Margaret the well-merited rebuke
                  she intended. "I have urgent business with him, and I must see him
                  immediately."
               "I will show you his office. Here, Patsy, you can come in by this gate;" and,
                  moving on a few steps, she opened a small gate which led into the road, and
                  invited Patsy to enter the house by that way.
               "No, thank you, Miss Margaret; I am on important business, and don't see any
                  necessity why I should enter the house privately."
               "Oh, yours is public business, then," said Margaret, with an ill-concealed
                  expression of interest.
               "Whether public or private, it is very urgent, and I am sorry to leave you so
                  soon. I hope you have enjoyed yourself here."
               "Oh, wonderfully," she replied, with a malicious smile. "Aaron and I ride out
                  almost every day, and then we have parties, and all kinds of gaieties."
               Margaret spoke thus purposely. She suspected Patsy's attachment for Major Burr,
                  and her heightened color and expression of sadness, as she heard these words,
                  indicating such close intimacy, confirmed her suspicions. In truth, she had cut
                  Patsy to the heart. Her familiarity in calling him Aaron, convinced Patsy that her
                  charms had already done their work, and that she had won him from her. But even in
                  that moment of deep grief and sadness, she did not forget her high mission, and
                  bowing her head, as if to say adieu, but in reality to conceal the tears which
                  gathered in her eyes, she moved on, and Margaret was left to conjecture what could
                  be the nature of that business which had induced a young girl like Patsy to walk
                  so great a distance on such a day.
               
               She did not, however, pause long for thought, but acting upon one of her impulses,
                  with which the reader is already acquainted, she ran through one of the pathways
                  of the garden into the house, and had gained the office where Major Burr was
                  seated, long before Patsy had turned the corner of the road which led into
                  Broadway.
               Her hurried rap at the door was answered by him, and as she entered, she glanced
                  around hastily, and was rejoiced to find he was alone. On her entrance, Major Burr
                  threw down the pen with which he had been writing as she knocked, and rising, with
                  an expression of pleasure on his face, was about to spring forward with extended
                  hands to greet her, when she placed her fingers on her lips, as if cautioning him
                  to be silent, and ere he had found time to ask any questions, she approached him
                  and said, in tones which showed she was unusually moved:
               "Something has gone wrong, I am afraid. Patsy has just crossed the river, and will
                  be here in a few moments. She has walked all the way from her mother's, and she
                  says she has business of great importance with you. Be on your guard, Aaron, and
                  if anything should transpire which might demand action on my part, let me know at
                  once."
               "What on earth can this mean," said the major, and as he spoke the color rose to
                  his cheeks.
               "You will find out soon enough. Only, Aaron," and as she spoke, her lips quivered,
                  and her eyes were moistened by the rising tear, "remember."
               "I never can forget that the dearest and loveliest of her sex has said she loves
                  me, and will be mine."
               "Thank you, Aaron; now sit down again to your writing. I had better go; it would
                  not look well if Patsy saw me now, as I know she is here."
               "As you choose, Margaret," he replied, and he resumed his seat, while Margaret,
                  approaching him, bent over, and imprinting a kiss on his broad and white forehead,
                  stole quickly and silently away.
               Major Burr threw down his pen, and leaning back in his chair, mused and wondered
                  what could be the purpose of Patsy's visit under such circumstances. That the
                  matter which had brought her there was important, was evidenced by the fact of her
                  having walked the entire distance to communicate with him; but before he had time
                  to reach any probable solution as to the cause of her visit, the orderly who was
                  on duty, entered and announced that a young woman desired to see him on important
                  business.
               "Let her come in," was the reply, as he bent his head to conceal the expression of
                  anxiety which he felt was on his face, and in another moment Patsy was in the
                  room, and the door was closed upon her.
               "Why, Patsy!" exclaimed the young aid, rising and springing forward with extended
                  hand, "what on earth brings you here?"
                  and as he spoke, he seized her hand and led her to a chair.
               The warmth of his greeting, his apparent pleasure at seeing her, and the manner in
                  which he had received her, touched the feelings of the fond girl, who, for the
                  moment, forgot that such a person as Margaret Moncrieffe lived, and felt happy in
                  her own love.
               "Oh, Aaron—I beg pardon—Major Burr."
               "Certainly. Major, if you please," he said, laughing, as he looked at her flushed
                  cheeks and travel-stained clothes; "had you not better make it Colonel?"
               "I wish I could make you greater than that, major."
               "Come, come, Patsy, don't be silly. Call me what you choose; but answer my
                  question: What on earth brings you here?"
               "Cousin Seth"——But she had no time to finish her sentence; for as he heard these
                  words, Major Burr felt the hot blood crimsoning his cheek, and he hastily
                  interrupted her, saying: "Is Seth alive?"
               "Alive, Aaron!" replied Patsy, half forgetting herself, and repeating the name so
                  dear to her. "Yes—alive, Aaron, and it is at his request I am here. He desired me
                  to say—let me see—I am so worried with the excitement, and so wearied by my
                  journey, I am afraid almost I shall forget my message. Oh, no!—I remember now. He
                  bade me seek you, and say that he was seized and made a prisoner at Corbie's—I
                  think that was the name—the night you sent him there; that he was sent on board
                  the 'Duchess of Gordon,' where he has been ever since until yesterday, when he
                  managed to escape. Oh, Aaron, you should have seen him, all cut and scratched and
                  bleeding; why, he was so exhausted when he got to our house, he fell asleep while
                  we were talking to him. He was too feeble to come to the city, so I came in his
                  place."
               "I knew Seth was true and honest," said Major Burr, who, only in Margaret's
                  presence, forgot the high duty he owed to his country.
               "Who ever doubted him?" exclaimed Patsy.
               "No matter, Patsy, go on. What message did he send?"
               "He bade me say the city is full of conspirators; that a plot has been formed by
                  Governor Tryon, with the aid of Mayor Matthews, as soon as the British fleet comes
                  in, to go up both rivers at once; to break down King's Bridge; to blow up the
                  magazines, and to seize the commander-in-chief and make him a prisoner!"
               "In heaven's name, are you crazy, Patsy?"
               "Not a bit of it, Aaron; I would not have walked sixteen miles on a crazy man's
                  errand. Seth has picked up his information on board the ship. There is a Captain
                  Blanchard, a man named Hickey, and some woman in the plot, besides the men Corbie
                  and Forbes, who had him bound and sent on board the vessel. As soon as the fleet
                  arrives, the plan is to be carried out."
               
               Major Burr listened to these disclosures with feelings which can be better
                  imagined than described. Twice he had received an intimation that the time for
                  action might soon arrive; but he had never dreamed of such a plot as was here
                  developed, and he was committed to aid in carrying it to consummation. His soul
                  shrank from it, and as he thought for an instant upon the terrible position into
                  which he had been not unwillingly, but irresistibly drawn by his passion for
                  Margaret, the blood rushed to his heart with such violence, that for an instant it
                  ceased to beat, and he grew pale as marble.
               Patsy noticed his emotion, and attributing it to his horror at hearing of such an
                  infamous plot against the liberties of the country for which she would have gladly
                  laid down her life, exclaimed: "It is horrible, is it not, Aaron?"
               Her words recalled his scattered senses, and he stammered out some reply.
               "Who can that woman be, Aaron? Seth was so earnest when he spoke about the
                  woman."
               "How did Seth manage to escape?"
               "Really, Aaron, I never asked him, we were so glad to see him, and he was so
                  anxious to have this known to you, we never thought a word about that. Seth loves
                  his country too well to think of himself, and so we all do. But who is that
                  woman?"
               "Oh, never fear but we'll find her out," said the major, who at the mention of the
                  word, had felt the hot blood mount to his cheeks, for he well knew who that
                     woman was, and the consequences of her detection flashed across his
                  mind. "If she is in New York, we will find her out. Captain Blanchard, you say,"
                  and he commenced writing.
               "A man named Hickey, and a woman; yes, and Mayor Matthews," she added: "he manages
                  everything, Seth said, as far as he could learn;" and Major Burr added the mayor's
                  name to his list.
               "Don't forget the men who had poor Seth gagged and bound and sent on board the
                  ship—Corbie and Forbes."
               "I will see General Putnam at once, and communicate this to him. Patsy, you have
                  rendered important service to General Washington and the country, and it will not
                  be forgotten. You are a noble girl," he said, warmly, turning to her and grasping
                  both her hands, "and deserve"——
               "No matter what I deserve, major," she said, releasing her hands and turning to
                  leave the room, an expression of sadness crossing her countenance, for he had not
                  spoken one word, as yet, which reached her heart.
               "No, Patsy, stay here; the family will give you refreshments, and you need
                  rest."
               "Oh, never mind, major, I have an aunt in the city, in Crown street; I will go
                  there and stay until to-morrow row,
                  when I will return home. Shall I say anything to Seth?"
               "Yes; say that I knew and felt that he would prove true and honest, and I am proud
                  of him; and of you, too," he added, looking earnestly at her, but not with such an
                  expression of affection as she had been wont to receive from him.
               "Thank you, Aaron; I must go now," she said, half mournfully; "you will find me at
                  Aunt Crosby's in Crown street. You will see General Washington?"
               "Immediately," he replied, earnestly; for in the presence of the pure,
                  true-hearted, patriotic girl, he felt his high enthusiasm for his country
                  rekindled, and for an instant Margaret was forgotten; though it was but for an
                  instant, for almost ere he had ceased speaking, her image rose before him, radiant
                  in glorious beauty, her brown eyes beaming upon him with love and passion, and
                  with a kind, friendly farewell, but not one word of heartfelt greeting, he
                  suffered Patsy to leave the office.
               As soon as he was alone, he threw himself into a chair, and leaning his head upon
                  the table, gave way to the thoughts which this interview had called up, and to
                  conjectures as to the consequences which it must entail on himself, if he
                  permitted still the sway which Margaret had obtained over him and his actions. His
                  reflections, whatever they were, were interrupted by a gentle pressure on the
                  shoulder, and looking up, he saw Margaret before him, her eyes fixed on him with
                  an expression of the most intense anxiety. She had watched until she saw Patsy
                  leave the house, and hurried down to the office to learn the nature of the
                  important business which had induced a young girl to walk alone and unprotected, a
                  distance of sixteen miles, in order to communicate it to him.
               Major Burr raised his head languidly at first, for he was fairly bowed down by the
                  weight of his thoughts, and as he met the eyes of her for whom he had promised to
                  barter honor, name, and all a man could hold dear, fixed on him, his whole nature
                  seemed on the moment changed; for there was a magic in her presence, a fascination
                  in her look, which subdued him, and rendered him powerless.
               For an instant he gazed in her lustrous eyes; he read there the deep love she had
                  avowed for him; he read there the only happiness he coveted on earth, and sinking
                  his head upon the table, he gave way to the feelings which he could not repress;
                  and though he shed no tear, his heart was nearly bursting with the conflict of
                  emotions which Patsy's communication and Margaret's presence had aroused.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               THE TEMPTRESS TRIES HER ARTS AGAIN.
               "WHAT does all this mean?" asked Margaret, approaching the table at which he was
                  seated, and laying her hand gently on the young aid's shoulder. "What has
                  happened?"
               Major Burr raised his head as he heard the well-known and ever welcome tones, and
                  looked at the fair speaker with a sad, mournful expression. His countenance wore a
                  deathly pallor; his lips were quivering with emotion, and his whole frame seemed
                  convulsed with some terrible excitement, such as she had never before witnessed in
                  him. He shook his head sorrowfully, and pointed to the slip of paper lying before
                  him, and on which he had made a memorandum of the information communicated to him
                  by Patsy.
               Margaret glanced over the writing, and as she observed the names of Blanchard,
                  Matthews, Hickey, and the other well-known Royalists, intuitively she divined the
                  purpose of Patsy's visit, and judged rightly that her business was, as she had
                  said, of the utmost importance. As the last words on the memorandum caught her
                  eye, in which he had noted down the fact that there was "a woman" connected with
                  the matter, whatever it might be, her own countenance paled, and she bit her lip
                  to repress the exclamation she was about to utter, and which might have betrayed
                  the emotion she did not care to acknowledge even to Major Burr.
               "Well," she said, with well-assumed calmness, "I do not see even now what it
                  means. Am I to infer from that," and she pointed to the paper, "that some one has
                  betrayed us? Tell me all, Aaron, and you will see, if occasion should present, how
                  well prepared I am to act, and how much a girl can accomplish, when her heart is
                  interested."
               "Simply this, Margaret," said Major Burr, speaking in low, deep, earnest tones;
                  "young Adams, as I predicted he would, has proved true to his duty. He was seized
                  at Corbie's on the night he went there by my orders, and was forcibly taken on
                  board the Duchess of Gordon. From what he heard at Corbie's, and from what he
                  managed to learn during his confinement on board the ship, he has gathered enough
                  to satisfy me that a deep-laid plot has been in progress for some time. You, of
                  course, know its purpose; but until communicated to me by Patsy, I never dreamed
                  of such a thing. It passes my comprehension how, in the conduct of civilized
                  warfare, such an atrocious scheme should have been conceived."
               
               "It was not necessary that you should know, Aaron," said Margaret, laying her hand
                  upon his arm, and looking earnestly at him. "I only asked that you would promise
                  to act with us when the proper time should arrive for action, and that promise you
                  gave me."
               "Seth has, somehow, found out those names," and he nodded to the paper, "and
                  having escaped from the ship by swimming ashore, made his way to his aunt's, where
                  I first saw you, whence he dispatched Patsy to communicate the information which
                  he had gathered to me, for he was too much enfeebled, by his efforts to escape, to
                  come himself. That Patsy is a noble, glorious girl," and as he spoke, Margaret
                  fastened her eyes on him with a singular expression, but she only said:
               "It was fortunate she came to you first. If she had gone directly to
                  head-quarters—ugh! I dread to think of it," and she fairly shuddered. "Now what
                  does he mean by 'a woman?'"
               "He did not know himself—at least so Patsy said. He had only heard that some woman
                  was concerned in the plot, for he heard that mentioned as well at Corbie's as on
                  board the ship."
               "It is impossible that I should be suspected, for my name has never been mentioned
                  in the city, save to the Captains Blanchard and Corbie, and I am sure Governor
                  Tryon would never suffer my name to pass his lips, circumstanced as I am at
                  present."
               "It was evidently meant for you, Margaret. Now what do you propose to do?"
               "Let me ask, rather, what do you now propose?"
               "To make this known to the commander-in-chief at once. That, of course, is my
                  first duty, the more especially after all the trouble dear Patsy took to make it
                  known to me."
               "Of course; and what then?"
               "I hardly know how to act."
               "It is scarcely probable that the general will be found now at his quarters, at
                  this hour of the day."
               "I know that he has gone to Long Island to examine the progress of the works
                  there."
               "And will he return before night?"
               "I scarcely think he will."
               "And General Putnam?"
               "Oh, he will laugh at it, even if I make it known to him. He, too, is absent,
                  riding about overlooking the works, and will not be at home for some hours."
               "So much the better; those hours are infinitely precious to us. Now, Aaron, you
                  shall see how I will act. But before I say one word, need I ask if you are
                  prepared to act with me?" and she looked at him with a mournful, tender
                  expression, but one mingled with intense interest, as if she almost dreaded to
                  hear his reply.
               "I will go to the end of the world with you, Margaret," exclaimed the major, in
                  whom the deep love he bore for her had
                  resumed its full sway, and conquered every other sentiment, as was ever the case
                  when in her presence, for she had cast a spell over him from which he could not
                  release himself. "I will be yours and yours only, in life or death."
               "Life and happiness, Aaron," she exclaimed, her face lighted by love and
                  enthusiasm. "Long life and boundless happiness, my own dear Aaron," she repeated,
                  as she threw herself into his arms; and straining her to his heart, he showered
                  kisses upon her upturned lips, and cheeks, and eyes.
               "There, there," and she rose from his embrace; "come what will, I shall be happy
                  so long as I possess you and your love. You say you love me; I know you do, and I
                  ask no greater happiness on earth. Now, Aaron, go on with your official duties as
                  if nothing had occurred. At four o'clock I will return and see you again, and
                  meantime I will have every necessary arrangement made to meet the emergency which
                  has arisen. You are sure General Washington is on the island?" she asked, with an
                  expression of anxiety.
               "I was so informed by Major Gibbs, who accompanied him to the ferry. But what do
                  you propose to do, Margaret?" and Major Burr looked at her with a strange
                  expression of mingled curiosity and interest.
               "Fly this very night. A few hours of rowing will place us in safety and beyond the
                  possible reach of pursuit, and then Colonel Burr shall assume the rank and station
                  he has so nobly earned and which he is so fitted to adorn; and as she spoke, she
                  drew herself to her full height, as if in thus saluting him, she had added the
                  dignity of the title to herself.
               "Anywhere, Margaret, so I am with you," was the enthusiastic reply.
               "I must go, then, and make my preparations. I told you before you would find me
                  ready for any emergency, and you will soon learn that I spoke the truth. This
                  night, before midnight, we will be in safety on board the governor's ship, and
                  then let the worst come to the worst; you shall be saved, though all else perish,"
                  and permitting another embrace, she left the apartment, and once more he was
                  alone.
               No, not alone; for his thoughts occupied him so entirely, he found it impossible
                  to transact any of his official business; so thrusting aside his papers, he arose,
                  and paced the room, abstractedly. The hour had arrived when he was called upon to
                  sacrifice honor, name and reputation; to lose his very nationality, and to bring
                  upon his name the scorn and detestation, not alone of his countrymen, but of all
                  honorable men. He saw before him, even at his feet, the deep, dark abyss of crime
                  into which he was about to plunge, and for the moment shrunk back aghast at the
                  spectacle thus presented to him; but through the darkness, and gloom and despair
                  of that void, there beamed a bright and shining light—the eyes of Margaret lighted
                     with love; Margaret's form of
                  matchless grace, clasped in his arms, and all his own; Margaret's glowing face
                  pillowed on his bosom, her snowy arms clasping his neck, his lips glued to her own
                  in the long, long kiss of youth and love—and he gazed, and gazed, till all else
                  faded from his view, and involuntarily he exclaimed, half aloud: "Margaret, dear
                  Margaret, you at any sacrifice;" and as he spoke, his face lighted up with an
                  expression which seemed the reflection of her own, as he had caught it in his
                  vision.
               A few minutes more and he had resumed his composure. Calmly he proceeded to open,
                  examine, and note the contents of the dispatches before him; and this done, he
                  folded carefully the minutes he had made of Patsy's disclosures, which he placed
                  in the breast pocket of his coat, and taking his hat, left the apartment, giving
                  directions to the orderly on duty to say that he would not return before three
                  o'clock.
               He passed leisurely up Broadway, and was glad when he found himself accosted by
                  some officers off duty, for their conversation seemed to divert his thoughts from
                  himself. He cared only to pass the time till it was necessary for him to return to
                  his quarters; for he had made up his mind as to the course he intended to pursue,
                  and nothing doubted that Margaret, through means of those friends with whom she
                  was in constant intercourse, would arrange for her flight. He placed implicit
                  reliance on her word that his name had never been mentioned tioned in connection
                  with her, so far as she was implicated in the disclosures made by Seth Adams, and
                  therefore felt perfectly at ease as to himself. He had thoroughly determined to go
                  with Margaret under any and every circumstance, and to that his mind was now,
                  since their last interview, irrevocably made up, as he then thought.
               He passed the time in pleasant conversation, joined in the gaiety and sallies of
                  his friends; nay, he even listened with unchanging countenance when Margaret's
                  name was mentioned, coupled with highest commendations and flattery, no one of his
                  companions dreaming for an instant that their listener cherished any special
                  interest for her.
               In this manner he continued to while away the time till the clock on Trinity
                  Church sounded the hour of three, when he bade adieu to his friends, pleading an
                  engagement at that hour, and turned down Broadway toward General Putnam's
                  residence, moving along with as much nonchalance
                  and calmness of manner as if he had not in his pocket the possible fate of the
                  nation and its honored champion.
               He reached his own quarters shortly after the hour he had designated for his
                  return, and in answer to the question he had put to the orderly, if any one had
                  been there for the general, was informed that only the same young woman who had
                  been there before, had called again;
                  but he could not say whether she had gone away nor not.
               This announcement rather disturbed the major's equanimity for a moment; but for a
                  moment only. His reliance on Margaret was implicit. He knew that General
                  Washington was out of the city, and therefore Patsy could not have seen him, and
                  he entered his office with as much unconcern as he had left it.
               He was surprised to find Patsy seated there, awaiting his return, and on this
                  occasion he greeted her with more than his usual warmth. In this, perhaps, he was
                  actuated by the consciousness that Margaret was not in the house; perhaps by the
                  remembrance of the past, for that Patsy loved him, he had abundant reason to
                  know.
               He therefore hastened up to her with extended hand, and, assuming an expression of
                  pleasure which was but partially felt, he offered to salute her; but she repelled
                  him, not coldly, but with a dignity and grace of manner which fairly overawed him;
                  for it showed that she had read him.
               "Well, Patsy," he said, seating himself with an air of apparent nonchalance, "this is the first time you ever refused
                  me a kiss. Who has won you from me?"
               He spoke in a tone of half serious gallantry, which cut the young girl to the
                  quick, and her only reply was a look which sent the hot blood mounting to his
                  cheeks, for he interpreted it rightly.
               Well knowing that a further continuance of this conversation would only insure
                  defeat to himself, he said, assuming an official air: "Well, Patsy, what now? What
                  has happened?"
               "Nothing, Major Burr, only I find a chance of riding home to-night; so I thought I
                  would stop and ask if you had seen General Washington yet?"
               "He is over on Long Island, Patsy, examining the works, but will be home about six
                  o'clock. I shall see him the moment he returns, and communicate to him the
                  important information you have brought, and I shall not forget to tell him to whom
                  the whole country is so deeply indebted."
               "Thank you, major. I am sure you are as deeply interested as I am in the success
                  of our glorious cause, and I am happy that I had the good fortune to find you,
                  since he is away; for the delay of a single day might lead to disastrous results.
                  Major Burr, will you pardon me if I say something that does not properly concern
                  me?" Patsy continued, hesitating, and a slight blush tinging her cheek.
               "You cannot say anything, Patsy, requiring pardon from me or any one else. I hope
                  it is something in which I may serve you."
               "I took the liberty once of cautioning you against Miss Moncrieffe. Pardon me,
                  major," she said, seeing that he was about to interrupt her, "not on my own
                  account, but for my country's sake; and as I know that you are as warmly devoted to its interests as
                  myself; I say now, I believe she is the woman to whom Seth alludes. If I had seen
                  General Washington, I should have told him so myself. You know best whether you
                  have seen anything to justify the suspicion of which I cannot divest myself."
               "Indeed, Patsy," said the young officer, coloring to the very temples, "I think
                  you are entirely mistaken."
               "Of course, I am aware that you think so," and she spoke with an emphasis whose
                  meaning he could not misinterpret. "But," she continued, "Seth bade me see
                     you. He, as well as myself, knows your devotion to your country,
                  and God grant that my humble services may"——
               "They will be appreciated, dear Patsy," exclaimed Major Burr, interrupting her,
                  and anticipating, as he thought, her words; but she checked him, saying:
               "You misunderstand me, major. I was going to say, I hoped my humble services would
                  prove of some value to my country and to our beloved general. Good day, major,"
                  and she moved toward the door, with a face as pale as marble and eyes moistened
                  with tears; for the bitter disappointment she had experienced on her first meeting
                  with him to whom her heart was given, and who had sought her love—the certainty
                  that Margaret had won his heart from her—had struck a blow to her very soul, from
                  which she felt she could never recover.
               "Patsy—dear Patsy!" exclaimed the major, springing forward; but again he met that
                  look, and recoiled from it much further than he would have done from a frowning
                  battery. In another moment he was alone with his own thoughts, and Patsy, brushing
                  away the tears which had gathered in her eyes, and choking down the rising sob,
                  left the house and proceeded to the ferry-boat. As she entered it, she gave one
                  lingering look at the house, which contained all she held dear on earth, then,
                  with a smothered sigh, seated her self in the stern-sheets, and during the entire
                  passage dared not trust herself with another look.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               THE ROYALISTS IN DANGER.
               AS may be supposed, the reflections of Major Burr, after the departure of Patsy,
                  were not of the most pleasant character. He felt keenly the rebukes conveyed by
                  her words, though, of course, none were intended by her, as she could not possibly
                  be cognizant of his contemplated treason; and each time that she had alluded to
                  his love for and devotion to his country, a pang shot through his heart; for he
                  could not but reflect that he had consented to array himself with its enemies.
               But his mad, blind, passionate love for Margaret had swallowed up every other
                  feeling, and perhaps, there may be some readers who may find a partial excuse for
                  him in his youth, his inexperience, and the invincible power of the little god,
                  who, from the days of Adam and Eve, has ruled the world; for, as Pope has most
                  truly said of love— 
                     "Kings he makes subjects, and meaner subjects kings."
                  
               
               He was engaged in the avocations of his office, and pursuing them with his usual
                  coolness, method, and system, when the door of his office was abruptly opened, and
                  General Putnam, flushed, and evidently somewhat out of temper, entered. The
                  general had been around the city, examining the progress of the various works for
                  its defence, and had found great cause of complaint at the tardiness of the men at
                  work upon them. Then, again, he had been called upon several times during the day
                  to settle some sectional quarrels; for even with the danger of invasion
                  threatening them, the most bitter sectional feeling prevailed throughout the
                  city—the southern troops, who were generally well equipped, making it a point to
                  decry the hardy sons of New York, New Jersey, and the more northern colonists, who
                  presented a most motley array indeed, scarcely any two being armed or uniformed
                  alike. In fact, he was generally out of humor, and, throwing his hat upon the sofa
                  as he entered, he exclaimed:
               "I wish to God some of these turbulent, quarrelsome fellows would leave the city.
                  They seem to think that its safety depends only on them. What is going on now,
                  major?" and as he spoke, he seated himself, and treated his nose to a pinch of
                  snuff.
               "Only a small conspiracy, general," was the reply of Major Burr, uttered as
                  composedly as though he had no concern in it.
               "Fiddle de dee!—I have heard of nothing but conspiracies spiracies since I have been quartered here. What
                  new one is this now?" he asked, impatiently.
               "Why, this looks as if it had some foundation in fact. You remember Seth Adams,
                  whom I sent to Corbie's, general?"
               "Yes, the confounded deserter! I wish I could catch him."
               "He will not give you the trouble to catch him, and I am sure you won't hang
                  him."
               "The d—l I won't. Let me see him once. But what about him?"
               "You remember I pledged my honor for his truth and fidelity."
               "And he has deceived you."
               "Not at all; on the contrary, he has rendered most important services. He was
                  taken prisoner and sent on board the Duchess of Gordon, and managed to effect his
                  escape only last night by swimming ashore on the Jersey side. While on board the
                  ship he picked up information concerning a plot, which, if there be any truth in
                  it at all, has been brewing for some time between Governor Tryon and the Royalists
                  in the city. His information is not very full, but of the very highest importance,
                  and certainly deserves an examination."
               "And how did it reach you, major?"
               "Seth was too weak and too much exhausted to come to the city, so he sent his
                  cousin, a young girl, the daughter of the old lady where I found Miss Moncrieffe
                  crieffe, and she has walked to-day all the way from Elizabeth to make it known to
                  me."
               "And what does it all amount to?"
               "Simply this, general," and the major drew from his pocket the memorandum he had
                  made of Patsy's disclosures. "He states that he heard there was a plot on foot in
                  which many of the Royalists of the city were engaged, to blow up the magazines,
                  destroy King's Bridge, and seize General Washington and carry him on board one of
                  their ships, in the hopes of thus terminating the war. He names some
                  parties"——
               At this moment a tap at the door, which Major Burr well knew, caused him to pause,
                  and the general in a gruff voice summoned the party to enter.
               It was indeed Margaret, who entered with a countenance as composed as if she was
                  in no wise interested in the subject of their conversation. Seeing the general,
                  she was about to retire, when he said, in a voice half gruff, half pleasant: "Oh,
                  come in, you little Tory; I shouldn't wonder if you had a finger in this, too. Go
                  on, major; does he name any parties?"
               "Yes, general—Captain Blanchard."
               "What, that Royalist scoundrel who has been so well treated here?"
               "I suppose it must be him—Corbie and Forbes."
               "Those infernal Tory scoundrels. I wish I had hung them when I first proposed it.
                  Go on."
               "A man named Hickey"——
               
               "Who the devil is he?" growled the general.
               "I have no doubt it is one of the Life Guardsmen. Then he spoke of some
                  woman."
               "That's you, Miss Impudence," exclaimed the general, turning suddenly upon
                  Margaret, with an awful frown upon his face, though she could perceive that his
                  anger was assumed. "I am sure that's you, and I'll keep my promise, mind you."
               "I am ready, sir," said Margaret, composedly, at the same time baring her snowy
                  neck, for she well knew to what he alluded.
               "Umph!" said the old general, and as he gazed upon the glorious beauty before him,
                  his eyes fastened upon that swan-like neck, "I am afraid it would hurt you; I'll
                  wait till I find out with more certainty. Go on, major."
               "That is all, sir," replied the aid, folding up the paper from which he had been
                  reading, and replacing it in the breast-pocket of his coat.
               "Well, I don't believe there is anything in it, but I suppose it is well enough to
                  inquire. I wish I was commander-in-chief for one hour; I would hang every Tory in
                  the city, and investigate afterward. I suppose you will make this known to General
                  Washington."
               "Of course, general, He has gone to examine the works on Long Island, and as soon
                  as he returns, I will communicate with him."
               "Major, you had better keep a good lookout on this young hussy. I shouldn't at all
                  wonder if she was mixed up with it. I have a great mind, Miss Impudence, to have
                  you put under lock and key until this is thoroughly investigated. Never mind, I
                  won't at present. Major, keep your eyes on her," and again he put on a look of
                  awful severity, which Margaret met with one of well assumed meekness and
                  submission. Then taking his hat from the sofa, he strode out of the room, leaving
                  Margaret and the young aid alone.
               "You did well, Aaron," she said, "to report to the general. It will disarm all
                  suspicion as to myself. I have kept my promise; now there is no time to waste in
                  words; you are familiar with the island?"
               "With every nook and corner of it," was the reply.
               "About a quarter of a mile above Corbie's house, there is a small cove completely
                  shaded by large trees, and with low underbrush on the edge. On the south side of
                  that cove there will be a boat at nine o'clock this evening. I name that time,
                  because a later hour might subject all parties to more examination than they
                  choose to undergo. I shall be in that boat at that time. If Colonel Burr does not
                  regret what he has said and promised, he will be there also."
               "I will be there, Margaret; I have thrown the die, and I will abide by the cast.
                  You, and you only. But how can you manage, or rather, how have you arranged
                  it?"
               "Have no fear for me; I will be there if I am alive."
               
               "You are a noble girl," said the major, enthusiastically, as he gazed upon the
                  beautiful temptress, who had so enchained him, "and deserve more than I can ever
                  repay."
               "You love me, don't you, Aaron?"
               "Better than my soul."
               "Then that is my reward, and I am well repaid. Now, we have no time for idle
                  words; we know each other too well to need them. You will report to General
                  Washington—when?" she asked.
               "As soon as he returns—perhaps about six o'clock."
               "That will give you abundant time to make any preparations you desire."
               "I need none. Under such circumstances, I shall take nothing which may retard our
                  departure."
               "You will bring your pistols, major. I always carry mine when there is a prospect
                  of having need of them. Now, Aaron, adieu, till we meet at nine o'clock. I may not
                  have an opportunity for conversation until then, and when we meet again, it will
                  be never to part in life," and she held out her hand, which was gladly seized, and
                  drawing her to him, he clasped her fair form in a long, close embrace, and
                  imprinting a kiss upon her snowy forehead, she withdrew, with the simple words,
                  "Remember, Aaron, nine o'clock."
               Major Burr had nerved himself to the act he was about to perpetrate, and was now
                  reckless of consequences. He felt, too, a sense of security which aided him
                  wonderfully in retaining his composure, and he was quite equal to the task of
                  facing the commander whom he was about to betray, and to communicate to him the
                  information imparted by Seth, with the certainty that, under any circumstances, he
                  would never be known as an accomplice.
               Shortly before six o'clock, he mounted his horse, and followed by an orderly, rode
                  to the head-quarters of General Washington, and throwing the reins to his
                  attendant, entered the house, and demanded an immediate interview with the general
                  on important business.
               His rank and position entitled him to attention, and in a few moments an orderly
                  of the Life Guards appeared, and ushered him into the presence of the
                  commander-in-chief, by whom he was received with the courtesy and amenity for
                  which he was so famed, the more especially as having once been his aid, the
                  general was thoroughly familiar with, and appreciated his worth and services.
               "Be seated, major," said the general, waving him to a seat, and laying down the
                  pen he had been using, prepared to receive any communication he might have to
                  make.
               "I have important information to communicate," said the major, at the same time
                  drawing forth the memorandum he had made, and at a sign from the general, who was
                  not accustomed to waste words, he
                  proceeded to detail briefly and succinctly all the facts communicated by Seth
                  Adams through Patsy.
               "And why did that young woman not call at my quarters, sir?" demanded the general
                  as the major concluded.
               "Because, general, Seth Adams had directed her to report to me."
               "And why to you, sir, do you suppose?"
               "Because, by directions of General Putnam during your absence, I had sent him on
                  the mission which resulted so unfortunately to him, pledging myself for his
                  fidelity and fitness, and his orders then were to report direct to me; and
                  further, because I am an old friend of her family."
               "That is well, sir. You may leave your memorandum; I will think of this. There may
                  be something in it; but it is not unlikely some story invented to divert our
                  attention from more serious designs. The whole affair looks to me absurd. I thank
                  you, major, for your attention to this, and will embrace the earliest opportunity
                  to express my sense of the obligations I owe to that noble girl, who has taken
                  such pains to serve her country."
               Major Burr knew that the interview was closed, and with a bow he retired, glad to
                  be free from the searching glance of the chief whom he had promised to betray.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               GENERAL WASHINGTON AND THE PLOTTERS.
               MAJOR BURR had scarcely closed the door, which separated him from his chief, when
                  the latter, rising, with a flushed countenance and eyes flashing with unwonted
                  anger, rang the small bell which stood on his table, and the summons was answered
                  almost before the sound had ceased to vibrate on the ear, by an orderly, who,
                  touching his hat, awaited erect and in silence the order which had summoned him
                  there.
               "I wish to see Captain Hamilton, or Major Webb," he said, naming two of his
                  favorite aids, and as the orderly withdrew, he commenced pacing the room with
                  measured strides, ever and anon pausing to look at the memorandum which Major Burr
                  had left.
               Major Webb soon made his appearance, and without any waste of words, was directed
                  to issue orders at once to the various commanders in the city. To one was
                  intrusted the arrest of Forbes and Houndling and Mason, with every person found in
                  either of their houses at the time of their arrest. To another he gave directions
                  for the arrest of Corbie and all in his house; while special orders were issued to
                  General Greene, then in command on Long
                  Island, whose quarters were at Bedford, to detail a select party of men, and
                  arrest Mayor Matthews, then residing at Flatbush, and particular directions were
                  given to have the arrest made at precisely one in the morning. To Major Gibbs, in
                  command of his Life Guard, orders were issued to put Hickey under immediate
                  arrest, and at two o'clock in the morning to arrest Captain Arthur Blanchard and
                  all found in his quarters; and strict orders were issued to the commanders of
                  every battery on either river, not to allow any boat to land or to depart after
                  sundown, under any circumstances.
               
               Major Webb received his orders, of course, without a question as to their real
                  purport, and having completed the writing which they required, they were passed to
                  the general, who, hastily glancing over them, affixed his signature, and, without
                  a word of explanation, dismissed his aid, with the simple injunction, delivered in
                  very earnest tones, to have them immediately delivered to the parties to whom they
                  were issued.
               The major did wonder somewhat at the silence maintained by his chief, who was
                  usually very communicative with his aids, in whom he reposed the most boundless
                  confidence; but as he knew as well how to obey, as he afterward proved he knew how
                  to fight, he merely shrugged his shoulders, and retired to execute the commands he
                  had received.
               Major Burr, on leaving the quarters of the commander-in-chief, rode leisurely down
                  Broadway, followed by his orderly, and, as he was moving slowly along, he
                  perceived Captain Blanchard, the Royalist, coming toward him.
               His first impression or rather impulse was to accost him, and, by gently hinting
                  at the occurrences of the day, he could possibly glean something from him, by
                  means of which he might ascertain if Captain Blanchard was as well informed as
                  himself. But second thoughts prevailed, and as they neared each other, the captain
                  gracefully touched his hat, and addressed the major with the usual salutations of
                  the day, which were as courteously responded to by the young aid. There was no
                  appearance of coolness—none of suspicion—nothing to warrant the supposition that
                  either knew of the other's participation in the important matters which were on
                  the eve of transpiring; but each, without knowing why, felt that
                  their positions were mutually known; for somehow, and most unaccountably, Captain
                  Blanchard had imbibed the idea that the intimacy between the major and Margaret
                  was entirely too close for him to be unacquainted with her movements.
               With an expression of the hope that Miss Moncrieffe was well, uttered by Captain
                  Blanchard, they separated, and each went on his way.
               Major Burr, on reaching his quarters, found his office vacant, and was glad of the opportunity of
                  being alone; for he was on the eve of taking the most important step of his
                  life—one which was to operate for or against him for all time, and was, therefore,
                  pleased to have one more opportunity for reflection before he made the fatal
                  plunge.
               His return, however, had been anxiously watched for by Margaret from the window of
                  her room, which fronted on Broadway; and he had scarcely unbuckled his sword and
                  thrown himself into a chair, burying his face in his hands, when a gentle touch
                  aroused him, and, as he raised his head, he met again those eyes, whose power he
                  could not resist, if he had so desired.
               With a bound and a cry of joy he sprang up, and, seizing both her hands, looked
                  intently at her for an instant with such an earnest, mournful expression, that the
                  tears came to her eyes in very spite of herself.
               "You will always love me, Margaret? You will not despise me for my
                  faithlessness?"
               "Love you, Aaron! Love you! I never can love any one but you; and where I do not
                  honor, I could not love. Be true to yourself for a few short hours, and you will
                  find your reward in the brilliant future before you and in"——
               "Your love, my own Margaret," interrupted the infatuated officer.
               "Come now, Aaron, time is precious. Have you made your preparations?"
               "I have none to make. I shall discard my uniform, and take nothing with me which
                  may remind me of the past. Pardon me, Margaret," he said, as he saw a shade cross
                  her countenance, "even with your love and presence to cheer me, I cannot at once
                  forget the associations of all my life, short as it has been, and the ties which
                  have until now bound me here."
               "You do not regret their severance?" she asked, half sadly.
               "I shall have no regrets when you are mine," was his reply, delivered with a depth
                  and earnestness which found their way to her heart.
               "I shall go now, and leave the tea-table early, on pretence of going out to pay
                  some calls, and I shall say that you are to call for me at Mrs. Shee's at nine
                  o'clock. Of course, you will be there."
               "Of course," he replied, smilingly, for he well knew to what she alluded.
               "Now then, Aaron, give me the countersign," and as she spoke, he started, for it
                  was the first occasion on which he had been called on for direct action. He
                  colored, hesitated, and stammered, for madly, blindly and wildly as he loved, nay,
                  fairly idolized her, the idea of betraying a trust, now that it was brought to him
                  in a palpable form, struck him as something terrible. Margaret saw his heightened
                  color, she noticed his hesitation, and rightly divining the cause, gave him a
                  moment's reflection, then not trusting
                  to words, smiled tenderly on him, and he was conquered.
               Approaching close to her, he whispered in her ear the parole and countersign, and
                  then, as if ashamed of what he had done, turned suddenly away, for it was his
                  first direct betrayal of his trust.
               Margaret gazed at him with a singular expression of countenance, then turned and
                  moved toward the door, saying as she placed her hand on the latch, "Remember, nine
                  o'clock! I shall be there."
               The last words were enough; the last struggle was over, and Aaron Burr was
                  thenceforth to be named as a traitor and deserter.
               The family assembled at the evening meal, and the subject of the information
                  communicated by Patsy to Major Burr was made the topic of discussion, the general
                  scoffing at it as ridiculous, but occasionally taunting Margaret, and renewing his
                  caution to Major Burr to keep a sharp lookout on her movements, and if he caught
                  her amiss, to hang her first and investigate afterward.
               Margaret joined in the conversation with her wonted ease of manner and
                  nonchalance, and joked the general upon his great desire to hang the Tories, which
                  she admitted was a much easier method of getting rid of enemies than to kill them
                  off in a fair fight, at which the general laughed good humoredly. Major Burr, who
                  had not the self-possession of Margaret, was compelled pelled to listen to this
                  conversation, and as he looked at her whose neck might be, as it were, almost
                  encircled by a halter, smiling and jesting on the very brink of such a precipice
                  as that on which they stood, his admiration for her was, if possible,
                  heightened.
               Immediately at the close of the meal, Margaret arose from the table, and turning
                  to General Putnam, said, with her most winning smile: "Grandpa, won't you let
                  Major Burr come after me, this evening; I am going out to pay a call at Mrs.
                  Shee's, and you know that if I should return alone, and any of the sentinels
                  should challenge me, I couldn't say anything, and he might take me to the
                  guard-house," and as she closed, she looked as demure as a nun.
               "I don't know as the major will care to discharge such a duty. If he does, I have
                  nothing to detain him. Eh, major!"
               "I will wait upon Miss Moncrieffe, with pleasure," and he bowed to Margaret, who
                  cast upon him a triumphant look, which seemed to say that all of her plans had
                  worked thus far successfully, and with a low courtesy she withdrew
               "That is a singular creature," said Mrs. Putnam to her husband, as the door closed
                  upon Margaret's retreating form.
               "Most singular—really a remarkable girl. By the way, major, have you thought who
                  that woman can be?" asked the general, turning suddenly to his aid.
               
               The suddenness of the question, as well as its character, destroyed for an instant
                  the composure of the young aid, who stammered and colored and hesitated; but he
                  was saved from a reply by the general, who bursting into a broad laugh, said:
                  "Why, major, you blush and stammer like a schoolboy caught in a trick. I didn't
                  mean anything when I spoke so to Margaret."
               "I have not any idea, general," responded the major, whose face at the last words
                  of his chief had turned ashy pale.
               "Well, I did not suppose that you did, major; but if there is anything in it, we
                  will find it out, I dare say."
               Major Burr murmured something which he meant to be an assent, and rising from the
                  table, withdrew from the apartment.
               "It is my private opinion," said the general, drawing back from the table, "that
                  Major Aaron Burr and Miss Margaret Moncrieffe are a pair of love-sick children,
                  Bah! what nonsense."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               MARGARET ATTEMPTS TO ESCAPE.
               THE orders of the commander-in-chief were obeyed with alacrity, zeal and fidelity,
                  though many were the expressions of wonderment as to what they portended, but of
                  course they were executed without question.
               The evening of the day so portentous in the history of our country, was bright,
                  clear, and pleasant. The moon was in its first quarter, and detracted nothing from
                  the brilliancy of the stars which studded the firmament.
               Shortly after eight o'clock, two parties were seen wending their way past Richmond
                  Hill, and as they walked leisurely along, with linked arms, they seemed deeply
                  engaged in conversation—so deeply, that they at first scarcely heeded the
                  challenge of the sentinel who paced the road which passed in front of the
                  headquarters of the commander-in-chief of the American forces. A second challenge,
                  however, aroused them, and the smaller of the twain, in answer to the hail, "to
                  advance and give the countersign," dropped his companion's panion's arm, and approaching the soldier, gave the
                  required word in low tones. The musket was at once restored from the charge to the
                  shoulder, and the pair again joining arms, passed on, followed by the eyes of the
                  soldier, who wondered what could have brought them there at such an hour, and how
                  they had learned the countersign; but having it, he was in duty bound to permit
                  them to pass.
               How, in heaven's name, Miss Margaret, did you get the word?" asked the larger and
                  elder of the two, when out of ear-shot, for his companion was no other than
                  Margaret Moncrieffe, dressed in male attire, accompanied by Arthur Blanchard.
               "All in good time, captain—all in good time, captain. In another hour you shall
                  know all, or," and she shuddered as she spoke, "nothing."
               "You are a wonderful girl," said the captain, pressing his companion's arm. "If
                  you had only been a man, what wonders you would have achieved; indeed, you have
                  already accomplished more than all of us together."
               "Yes," she laughed, "if I had only been a man, I should have been nothing but a
                  man. No, no, Captain Blanchard, I am so proud to be Margaret Moncrieffe, I would
                  not exchange my name for any reputation manhood might bring to me."
               "Ahem!" said the captain, meaningly, but intuitively both felt it was no time now
                  for mere bantering conversation versation. Both were fleeing for their lives, and
                  although one danger had been passed, others must be encountered.
               Slowly they moved on, so as not to attract suspicion, and when fairly out of sight
                  of the Richmond Hill House, and of course of the sentry, whose beat did not extend
                  beyond the garden, Margaret turned suddenly into a lane, or rather path, which
                  tended toward the river.
               Noiselessly and cautiously they moved along in single file, Captain Blanchard
                  taking the lead, and winding their way through the shrubbery and underbrush, the
                  water's edge was at last reached. A low whistle from the captain was answered by
                  some party hidden beneath the brush which concealed the water from sight, and in a
                  few moments a man, in the garb of a sailor, made his appearance.
               "Is all ready?" asked the captain, as the man approached and touched his hat.
               "All right, captain," was the response, accompanied by another military
                  salute.
               "We had better get in the boat at once," said the captain to his companion, who
                  now stood by his side. The shrubbery will conceal us beyond the possibility of
                  discovery. Does your friend know the spot?"
               "Perfectly, and he will be here, I am confident, at the appointed hour."
               "Come, then," and taking her hand, he led her down the step bank, aided by the sailor, who had
                  answered his summons, and in a few minutes they were seated in the stern-sheets of
                  the boat—a small yawl, manned by four men, who, evidently aware that they were
                  engaged in a dangerous enterprise, stood up, gazing around as well as the darkness
                  would permit, and crouching down upon their seats at the slightest noise.
               Captain Blanchard, now feeling secure from the probability of capture, strove to
                  draw Margaret into conversation; but gently waving her hand, as if to request his
                  silence, she said: "Please don't;" and burying her face in her hand, she gave way
                  to her thoughts.
               Leaving them thus placed, let us return to other parties. Shortly after they had
                  passed the sentry, the officer of the guard came around, and gave strict orders
                  that no persons were to be permitted to pass on any account whatever, whether they
                  had the countersign or not, but to direct them to the guard-house. The sentinel's
                  post was removed further down the road, so as to command a view of Corbie's house,
                  and he was specially instructed to note, so far as was possible, how many entered
                  there.
               After receiving these orders, the soldier then communicated to the sergeant the
                  fact that two persons, having the countersign, had passed shortly before. The
                  sergeant, a keen, quick-witted soldier, who had seen much service, and who was
                  devotedly attached to his general, questioned the man closely as to their dress,
                  manner and appearance, so far as he could judge, and having obtained all the
                  information which the sentinel could communicate, hastened to the barracks, and
                  requested an instant audience of Major Gibbs, to whom he reported what he had just
                  learned.
               "Has Captain Martin reported yet?" was the inquiry of the major, after he had
                  heard the sergeant's statement.
               "There's a company just below the barracks, major; but I don't know whose it is.
                  They came up just before I started on my rounds."
               "Send the orderly here, and allow no person to pass the lines, even if he has the
                  countersign," was all the reply which the major made, and, in a few moments after
                  the sergeant's departure, the orderly entered the room.
               "Whose company is that below the barracks?"
               "One from Colonel McDougal's regiment," was the reply, accompanied by the military
                  salute.
               Major Gibbs, as commander of the Life Guards, was, of course, in the most intimate
                  confidence of the commander-in-chief, and to him had been communicated the
                  information brought by Major Burr, which made him cognizant of all the orders
                  issued by General Washington, and of the reasons which had governed him. He had
                  been informed of the disclosures made within the past few hours, and fairly
                  worshipping his general, had received
                  the impression that the plot thus providentially betrayed, was much more extended
                  than had been supposed. As the custodian of the personal safety of the
                  commander-in-chief, holding the very highest post of honor in the army, the major
                  realized the full sense of his responsibility, and, with characteristic prudence,
                  he resolved to act upon his own judgment. Thus far he had rigidly obeyed his
                  orders. He had none others to act upon; but the emergency seemed to be such as to
                  demand prompt action, and that he determined to take upon his own responsibility;
                  and, after a few moments' reflection, feeling that he had not only the right, but,
                  by virtue of his office, the power to do so, he resolved to act. The passage of
                  two persons through the lines, with the countersign, might or might not be
                  unimportant; but with the prudence of a cautious, brave, and devoted soldier, he
                  determined at once upon his course.
               "Captain Martin, major," said the orderly, interrupting the major's reverie, and
                  ushering in the commander of the company in McDougal's regiment, who had been
                  ordered to make the arrest at Corbie's house when the proper time had arrived.
               "Captain, I am glad to see you so prompt; but I had no reason to expect anything
                  else from you," and the captain bowed in response to the compliment, which, by the
                  way, was hardly merited.
               "You will please take your men by any route the least noticeable, and post them on
                  the banks of the river near Corbie's. We have reason to believe that he is in
                  constant and direct communication with the enemy. If any boat approaches, let it
                  land, and make the whole party prisoners."
               "If any boat attempts to pass your command, and does not land when hailed, fire
                  into it without hesitation. There is treason and treachery abroad, Captain Martin,
                  and we must put them down. Go at once, captain, we have no time to lose," and,
                  with a salute, the captain was about to retire, when Major Gibbs added: "By the
                  way, you had better take the lane just north of us; it leads to the river, and you
                  can get down by that path without trouble, and the fact of your going past
                  Corbie's, will disarm the inmates of any suspicion as to your purposes."
               In a few moments, his command, some forty men, was in motion, and he led them by
                  the lane mentioned by Major Gibbs, which wound down to the edge of the river, and
                  through which Margaret and Captain Blanchard had passed a few minutes previously,
                  intending by making a detour to get in the rear of Corbie's house, and where,
                  secured from observation by the bushes which skirted the river, everything could
                  be seen.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               AARON BURR FREE AGAIN.
               WHILE matters are in this posture, let us turn to Major Burr, whom we left as he
                  arose from the tea-table at General Putnam's. He ascended to his own apartment,
                  and locking himself in, threw himself into a large, leather-bottomed chair which
                  stood by the table in the centre of the room, and burying his face in his hands,
                  he gave way to the thoughts which the occasion would naturally be supposed to
                  excite.
               Here was he—a youth just out of his teens, who had won honor, fame and
                  distinction, such as hundreds of older officers would have been glad and proud to
                  enjoy. His reputation as a brave, cool, skillful and accomplished officer, was not
                  surpassed by that of any young officer in the Continental army, and by few of his
                  seniors. He had enjoyed the confidence and regard of the commander-in-chief, who
                  had evinced his appreciation of his worth and talents, by making him one of his
                  aids—a position which he had abandoned voluntarily, for the reason, as he had
                  said, that he was not content as a soldier to discharge only the clerical duties
                  which devolved upon an aid, and desired more active service vice; and he was then,
                  at his own request, backed by that of General Putnam, transferred to his staff as
                  aid, where he had service as constant and active as his heart desired. He was the
                  intimate friend and confidant of this brave old general, who loved him as a son,
                  while every member of the family treated him as one of themselves.
               The career before him under such a leader, gave promise of abundant active
                  service, with the certain prospect of promotion if he should deserve it, and he
                  felt that he could; and more than all, he was in the very presence of the enemy,
                  for they were daily expected to arrive, and in such numbers as would call forth
                  all the energies and courage and talents of every man in the army. Here was a
                  chance for distinction, for new laurels, for added honors, and his defection now,
                  at this imminent crisis, would it not be attributed to cowardice? He shrunk with a
                  blush of shame from this thought.
               Then again, the fact that Margaret had fled the city at the same time with
                  himself, would, no doubt, make his name a very by-word of ridicule and contempt,
                  as one who for the sake of a pair of brilliant eyes, a voluptuous form and
                  fascinating manners, had forsaken his country in her sorest hour of trial—had
                  forfeited his honor, and sullied a name which now bade fair to shine in the
                  firmament of the country's history, among the brightest of the bright stars which
                  studded it.
               
               There was no Margaret there then to wind her snowy arms around his neck, to tempt
                  him with languishing looks and burning kisses; reason, judgment, conscience, and
                  the high sense of honor and patriotism which had led him to volunteer with Arnold
                  for that trying and disastrous expedition, were rapidly regaining their sway, and
                  freed now from the wiles of the enchantress who had ensnared him, he was fast
                  regaining his self-control.
               True, the image of Margaret did rise up before him, and he sighed as he thought of
                  the happiness he might call his own; but the picture had lost something of its
                  brilliancy—it was dimmed by the doubts which his thoughts had woven around it, and
                  he could gaze upon it without a quickening of the pulse, or a brightening of the
                  eye.
               How long he had thus mused he knew not, but he was aroused by the clock of Trinity
                  Church, which sounded the hour of eight, and as he counted the strokes, he sprang
                  from his seat, and clenching his hands until the nails almost entered the flesh,
                  exclaimed: "No, by the great God above, never; I love you, Margaret, but I will
                  not sell my soul for you; I will not live, even for your love, to be branded as a
                  traitor. She is safe; thank heaven for that, and she must learn to forget me, as I
                  will her. If she does love me, she will feel prouder of me as I am, than as she
                  would make me; and so farewell, Margaret!"
               What more he might have said was interrupted by a tap at his door, and on opening
                  it, Belle Putnam stood there, and as she saw him, said, "Ma thinks you had better
                  go now for Margaret; she ought to be home by nine o'clock, and it is a great way
                  to Colonel Shee's quarters."
               "True, Belle; I had almost forgotten it."
               "What, forgotten Margaret?" she said, archly and with a mischievous look.
               "Yes, Belle; I was very deeply engrossed in thought, and the time has passed
                  without my noticing it."
               "And what for your thoughts, major?"
               "I was thinking what the next few days might bring forth for all of us," and he
                  spoke with such solemnity, Belle fairly shuddered, for she, too, was in constant
                  terror of an invasion by the British, and presumed that he alluded to that.
               "Well, you had better go now, and bring her home."
               "Certainly; I ought to have been away before," and seizing his chapeau, he left
                  the room and the house, proceeding leisurely up Broadway, deeply engrossed in
                  thought. He felt that he had seen Margaret for the last time, but derived some
                  consolation in the reflection that she was safe, and that through his
                  assistance.
               It was near the hour of nine by the time he had reached the immediate vicinity of
                  Richmond Hill, and a feeling which he could not define, came over him as he
                  remembered that he had promised Margaret to be at the boat by that hour. Crossing
                  out of the road, he leaned up against
                  the fence, awaiting the striking of the hour which was to place Margaret in
                  safety, and to disenthrall him from the spell which had so strangely bound him to
                  her, in spite of every call of honor, duty, morality or patriotism.
               With his face turned toward the water, he was looking over toward the Jersey
                  shore, when he was startled by the report of one musket, followed almost instantly
                  by a volley which seemed to come from the bushes just below Corbie's house, and a
                  short, sharp scream, which rang through the still night air, went to his very
                  heart, for he felt that it came from Margaret.
               In another moment, and before he had time to collect his thoughts, a boat swept
                  out from the shade of the trees, and shot directly across the river, propelled by
                  arms which were nerved by the certainty that they were pulling for life or
                  death.
               Slowly and sadly Major Burr turned away, almost wishing that the ball which he
                  doubted not had been fatally sped for Margaret, had found him in her stead; but
                  now that the possibility of ever seeing her again, whether she had died thus, or
                  escaped unharmed, was beyond peradventure, he felt a sense of relief, and a new
                  life seemed to be infused into him.
               He reached General Putnam's house long after the family had retired, and
                  proceeding to his own apartment, passed the night in meditation, revolving in his
                  own mind the extraordinary occurrences of the past few days—for all here narrated
                  had transpired between the first day of June and the 28th of the same month, in
                  the year 1776, on which day Hickey, the guardsman, was hung. But let us turn again
                  to Margaret, whom we left seated in the boat which was lying in the cove in the
                  rear of Corbie's house, awaiting only the arrival of Major Burr, to push off and
                  make for the Duchess of Gordon.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               CONCLUSION.
               WE left Margaret and Captain Blanchard seated in the boat, awaiting the arrival of
                  the other party, as yet unknown to the captain, but so anxiously expected by the
                  former, and who was to share the perils and hazards of the night. Margaret had
                  remained silent, engrossed in her thoughts so deeply she seemed almost to have
                  forgotten where she was, or the circumstances which surrounded her, when she was
                  startled by the hand of the captain, laid gently on her own.
               "Hist!" he said, raising his finger to his lips, as if to caution her to silence,
                  and in another moment their ears, quickened by the sense of the danger which
                  encompassed them, detected the tread of a body of men coming directly toward the
                  spot where the boat lay concealed beneath the underbrush.
               "This way, men," was uttered in loud, commanding tones; "spread yourselves along
                  the bank of the river, and keep both eyes wide open; we'll catch some of these
                  infernal Tory scoundrels yet."
               The men in the boat had heard the sound of the soldiers' feet as they advanced
                  gradually toward them, and they heard, too, with terrible distinctness, the
                  command to skirt the bank, which, if accomplished, would render escape next to
                  impossible.
               Immediate action was, of course, peremptorily necessary, and the man at the bow
                  oar, rising, placed it against the bank and pushed the boat off from the shore, so
                  that it swung out into the stream, but still in the shadow of the bushes.
               Margaret caught a view of what had been done, and grasping Captain Blanchard's arm
                  with a force of which her slender frame seemed incapable, whispered in hoarse,
                  hurried tones: "For the love of heaven, captain, stop them. Do not let them go
                  until he arrives; I know he will be here in time."
               "It is impossible, Margaret. Our lives would certainly pay the forfeit of a
                  minute's delay. Did you not hear the order to skirt the bank?"
               "Then let me go ashore; I will not leave without him," and she strove to rise,
                  with the intention of leaping on shore; but the captain threw his arms around her,
                  and, placing his mouth close to her ear, whispered hurriedly: "Would you have our
                  blood upon your head? You cannot, shall not go on shore;" and waving his hand to
                  the men at the oars, the boat was pushed off boldly, and the muffled oars placed
                  silently in the row-locks. One strong, hearty pull sent her at least ten feet from
                  the shore, but not yet outside the shade of the trees and bushes which lined the
                     bank; another given as heartily,
                  made her fairly spring from the water, and as she shot out into the river, one of
                  the soldiers, who had poked aside the bushes with his musket, discovered the
                  retreating boat, and at once gave the alarm, and challenged the boat, now rapidly
                  receding from the shore.
               Captain Blanchard, who held the tiller, knew that they must be discovered soon,
                  and, with a view of presenting as small a mark as possible to the enemy, directed
                  the course of the boat straight across the river, thus affording only a sight of
                  the stern, a mark too small to render the danger at all imminent, especially at
                  night, and with the distance between them increasing at every stroke of the oars,
                  now plied with a heartiness doubled by the certainty that it was a matter of life
                  or death to all on board.
               The soldier who had discovered the boat and given the alarm, forced his way
                  through the bushes, and gaining a stand on the water's edge, took deliberate aim
                  at the now indistinct object on the water, and discharged his piece. The other men
                  had by this time managed to scramble down the bank and through the bushes, and,
                  discovering the speck on the water, sent a volley after it; but the balls fell
                  harmless around those in the boat, but so close—for one of the oar blades was
                  pierced—as to draw a scream from Margaret, who had crouched close to Captain
                  Blanchard's side, and who, between her anxiety for the safety of him she loved so
                  well, and from whom she was now perhaps forever separated, and the uncertainty of
                  her own fate, was completely unnerved. It was this scream which had been heard on
                  shore by Major Burr through the stillness of the night.
               Fortunately for the party in the boat, there was no other boat along the shore
                  nearer than a mile down toward the city, and their pursuit was rendered
                  impossible, and Captain Martin, whose company had fired at the escaping party,
                  could only report what had occurred, to which Major Gibbs replied, that he was
                  glad to get rid of them anyhow, but would much rather have captured them, that he
                  might have the pleasure of hanging the infernal Tories. He was a little puzzled
                  when the captain remarked that he had heard a woman scream; but his conjectures as
                  to who she could be, were solved on the next day, when the absence of Margaret was
                  discovered.
               The orders of the commander-in-chief for the arrest of the parties implicated in
                  this diabolical plot, so far as they were known, were executed with zeal and
                  promptness. Of course Captain Blanchard was not found, and the rage of General
                  Putnam when he was compelled to feel that he had been out-generalled by a girl of
                  fifteen, exceeded all bounds.
               Great was the commotion in the city on the following day, when it was known that
                  during the night, some forty or fifty Tories had been arrested and sent to jail but greater still was the surprise and
                  indignation of the Provincials, when the existence and discovery of the plot were
                  made known.
               The Tories were handed over to the Provincial Congress for trial, while the
                  soldiers implicated were turned over to the mercies of a court-martial, which was
                  convened on the following day, and which terminated its labors by finding the
                  guardsman Hickey guilty, and sentencing him to be hung—a sentence which was
                  carried into execution on the 28th of June, 1776, near the site on which the
                  present Tompkins Market is erected, at the junction of Fourth and Third
                  Avenues
               Margaret Moncrieffe lived many years after these events; but her career was one,
                  the details of which would be unfit for publication, though it is only simple
                  justice to her woman's nature to state, and she has so recorded in her published
                  memoirs, that she never loved but one man, and that was Major Aaron
                  Burr, who had won, and retained throughout her whole life, dissolute and abandoned
                  as it was, her undying devotion.
               Edmund Blanchard, who, by reason of the names of the conspirators having been sent
                  on board the "Duchess of Gordon," had escaped arrest, returned to his sober
                  senses, and made some reparation for his past infamy, not only by his after
                  courage and devotion to the cause which he had once consented to betray, but by
                  marrying Lizzie Brainard, with whom, after the war had closed, he lived for many
                  years in unclouded happiness.
               Patsy, in due time, forgot her faithless lover, and as the wife of a sturdy,
                  thriving farmer in New Jersey, lived to hear the country ring with the praises of
                  him she had once so loved and trusted, and unmoved, watched his upward flight,
                  until he came within one step of reaching the highest office in the gift of a free
                  people.
               Of the after career of Aaron Burr, much has been written—much, too, that is not
                  only contradictory in the statements, but false in particulars. The Appendix which
                  follows, the reader will perceive, gives, under his own hand, a flat denial to one
                  important accusation, which has been published and reiterated. To that Appendix
                  the author refers as substantiating his claim to at least a partial historical
                  accuracy in the story of MARGARET MONCRIEFFE AND AARON BURR.
            
         
      
      
         
            
            APPENDIX.
            
            APPENDIX.
            
               APPENDIX I.
               THE author having claimed for this work that it records historical circumstances,
                  presents the following pages, copied from the "American Archives," in which the
                  reader will find mentioned many of the names introduced to his notice in the
                  course of the narrative. The trial of the life guardsman Thomas Hickey, for
                  treason, and which terminated in his conviction and subsequent execution, brings
                  the whole plot and the infamous plotters clearly to the reader's view; and it is,
                  therefore chosen as the most appropriate, as well as the fullest record of events
                  which transpired during the period when Margaret Moncrieffe was an inmate of
                  General Putnam's house, received and treated as a member of his family. The
                  documents now given are copied from Vol. VI. of "American Archives," and, apart
                  from their direct connection with the author's fiction, may serve to interest, for
                  the reason that the circumstances thus detailed before the court-martial, have
                  only been alluded to in the most general and briefest terms by those who have
                  written the history of those troublous times. The evidence is not presented in
                  full, as it would occupy too much
                  space; but the main and most prominent circumstances are here recorded, proving,
                  beyond the possibility of cavil, the existence of one of the most diabolical plots
                  ever conceived, and which was only defeated by Providential interposition. The
                  names of the Provincials who had enlisted in this infamous plot had been sent on
                  board the "Duchess of Gordon," so that with every effort, the court-martial was
                  unable to fasten criminality on any save a few of the Royalists whose names are
                  mentioned in the course of the trial. Corbie, Forbes, Mason, Houndling, and
                  others, directly implicated, were imprisoned, and only released when the British
                  took possession of the city after it had been evacuated by the Continental
                  troops.
               
                  TRIAL OF HICKEY BEFORE THE COURT MARTIAL.
                  
                     Col. SAMUEL H. PARSONS, Pres.
                     Lt. Col. Wm. Sheppard,
                     Major Levi Wells,
                     Capt. Jos. Hoyt,
                     Capt. Abel Pettibone,
                     Capt. Samuel Warren,
                     Capt. James Mellen,
                     Capt. Warham Parkes,
                     Capt. William Reed,
                     Capt. Jos. Pettingil,
                     Capt. David Lyon,
                     Capt. David Sill,
                     Capt. Timothy Percival.
                     WILLIAM TUDOR, Judge Advocate.
                  
                  The warrant being read, and the court, first duly sworn, proceeded to the trial
                     of Thomas Hickey, a private sentinel in his Excellency the Commander-in-Chief's
                     Guard, commanded by Major Gibbs, brought prisoner before the court, and accused
                     "of exciting and joining in a mutiny and sedition, and of treacherously
                     corresponding with, enlisting with, and receiving pay from the enemies of the
                     United American Colonies."
                  The prisoner being arraigned on the above charge, pleads not guilty.
                  WILLIAM GREEN sworn, deposes: That about three weeks ago, I was in company with
                     one Gilbert Forbes, a gunsmith, who lives in Broadway, and we fell into a
                     conversation on politics; I found Forbes' pulse beat high in the Tory scheme; I
                     had repeated conversations with Forbes afterward, and he was always introducing
                     politics and hinting against the impossibility of this country standing against
                     the power of Great Britain; he invited me to dine with him one day, and a day
                     or two afterward asked me if I would not enlist in the king's service; I asked
                     him where the money was to come from to pay me for the service; Forbes replied
                     the major would furnish money; I was pleased with the notion of getting some
                     money from the Tories, and agreed to the scheme, with a view to cheat the
                     Tories and detect their scheme; I mentioned the matter to several, and among
                     others to Hickey, the prisoner; I told him the principle I went upon, and that
                     we had a good opportunity of duping the Tories; Hickey agreed to the scheme,
                     but did not receive any money, except two shillings, which I gave him; Forbes
                     left it with me to enlist and swear the men; Forbes swore me and one Clark on
                     the Bible to fight for the king, but I swore Hickey to fight' for America;
                     after the prisoner was engaged, I proposed to him to reveal the plot to the
                     general, but Hickey said we had better let it alone till we had made further
                     discoveries; all that Forbes proposed to me was that when the king's forces
                     arrived, we should cut away King's Bridge, and then go on board a ship of war
                     which would be in the East River to receive us; I enlisted ten or a dozen, and
                     told them all my plan; the prisoner wrote his name upon a piece of paper, with
                     five others, which I gave to Forbes, and this was all the enlistment that I
                     knew of the prisoner's signing.
                  GILBERT FORBES: A night or two after Gen. Washington arrived in New York from
                     Boston, Green fell into company where I was; we were drinking, and Green
                     toasted the king's health, and I did so too; a day or two afterwards Green
                     called upon me; said, that as I had drank his majesty's health, he supposed I
                     was his friend, and immediately proposed to enlist some men into the king's service, and told me he could
                     procure considerable numbers to join him; I put him off, and declined having
                     any hand in the business; but in repeated applications from him I at last fell
                     into the scheme; Green was to enlist the men, in which I was not to be
                     concerned, nor have my name mentioned; in a day or two, Green gave me a list of
                     men who had engaged, among whom was the prisoner, Hickey; soon after Hickey
                     asked me to give him a half a dollar, which I did, and this was all the money
                     that Hickey ever received from me; Green received eighteen dollars, and was to
                     pay the men who enlisted, a dollar a piece, and we were to allow them ten
                     shillings per week subsistence money; I received upward of a hundred pounds
                     from Mr. Matthews, the mayor, to pay those who should enlist in the king's
                     service; who, after enlisting, were to go on board the king's ships, but if
                     they could not get there, were to play their parts when the king's forces
                     arrived; that he knows one——Silk; that he was left by Cap. Aidy to wait upon
                     his wife, who lives on Long Island, somewhere near Hampstead; that he is often
                     in town, frequently at Mrs. Oiry's and Mrs. Brandon's; has the air of a
                     soldier; wears a short brown hunting coat, and a double-breasted jacket of the
                     same color; that he used to wait on a Mr. Miller, who lives or lodges in Mr.
                     Gouverneur's house, on Rotten Row; that Sergeant Graham (an old soldier,
                     discharged from the royal artillery) was employed by Governor Tryon to speak to
                     examinant about enlisting men for the king's service, and told this examinant
                     from the governor, that if this examinant exerted himself in that business, and
                     raised a number of men, he should have a company; that the said sergeant also
                     informed him, that at the request of the governor, he had surveyed the grounds
                     and works about the city, and on Long Island, in consequence of which he had
                     concerted a plan for an attack, which he had given to Governor Tryon, and of
                     which the governor approved; which was as follows, viz.: That the men-of-war
                     should cannonade the Battery at Red Hook, and that while that was doing, a
                     detachment of the army, with some cannon, etc., should land below or about Red
                     Hook, and march round so as to come upon the back of the batteries near the
                     Swedeland House; that a small part of the detachment should make a feint of
                     marching up the road leading directly to the battery, but that the main body
                     were to make a circuitous march so as to reach the battery while our attention
                     was engaged by the feint aforesaid; that if they carried that battery, which
                     they expected to take by storm, they were immediately to attack the battery on
                     the hill near the ferry, which the sergeant said would be easily done, as no
                     embrasures were made or cannon fixed on the back side of it; that this latter
                     battery, when in their possession, would command the works on Gouvernour's
                     Island, which they would keep between two fires, viz.: the battery last
                     mentioned, on the one side, and the shipping on the other; that then the
                     shipping, with the remainder of the army, were to divide; one division was to
                     run up the North River and land at or near about Clarke's farm, and march
                     directly to Enclenbergh Hall and fortify there; the other division was to run
                     up the East River and land in such a manner as to gain Jones' Hill, from whence
                     they expected to command and silence the battery on Bayard's Hill; that should
                     they gain possession of the places above mentioned, their next object would be
                     the grounds adjacent to King's Bridge, where they intended to erect strong
                     works, so as to cut off the communication between the city and the country.
                  Gilbert Forbes being further examined, saith: That some time before the
                     man-of-war removed from the town to the narrows, one Webb, a burr-millstone
                     maker, told examinant that if he had any rifles to sell, he could get a good
                     price for them by sending them on board the man-of-war, and that a young man
                     who lived with James Rivington told him the same; that this examinant had then
                     nine rifles which he made, but they were bad and would not shoot straight, and
                     eleven smooth, narrow-bored guns; that he sent some of them to Mrs. Becks, a
                     tavern keeper, near the Fly Market, with orders to send them on board, which
                     she accordingly did, and that the said Webb carried the remainder; that the
                     said Webb told this examinant that Governor Tryon would give him three guineas apiece for them; that at the
                     same time when an exchange of prisoners took place with the man-of-war, and
                     Tiley was, among others, exchanged, the mayor, viz., David Matthews, Esq., sent
                     for this examinant and told him that he was going on board the governor's ship,
                     and that he would get the money due from the governor to this examinant for the
                     rifles aforesaid; that on his return the mayor told this examinant he would pay
                     him in a few days; that this examinant never did receive any money from him for
                     the said fire-arms; that this examinant told Charles Benson that he was about
                     enlisting men, and that he told this examinant it would do.
                  WILLIAM WELCH: Between a fortnight and three weeks ago, I met the prisoner on
                     the street; he asked me to go with him to a grog shop; when we got there he
                     told me he had something to tell me of importance, but insisted on my being
                     sworn before he would communicate it; I accordingly swore on the Bible to keep
                     secret what he should tell me; he then said, that this country was sold; that
                     the enemy would soon arrive, and that it was best for us old countrymen to make
                     our peace before they came, or they would kill us all; that we old countrymen
                     should join together, and that we would be known by a particular mark, and if I
                     would agree to become one of them, he would carry me to a man who would let me
                     have a dollar by way of encouragement; I did not relish the project and we
                     parted.
                  ISAAC KETCHUM: Last Saturday week the prisoner was committed to jail, on
                     suspicion of counterfeiting the Continental currency, and seeing me in jail,
                     inquired the reason of it; I told him, because I was a Tory; on this, a
                     conversation ensued on politics; in different conversations he informed me that
                     the army was become damnably corrupted; that the fleet was soon expected, and
                     that he and a number of others were in a band to turn against the American army
                     when the king's troops should arrive, and asked me to be one of them; the plan
                     he told me, was, some were to be sick, and others were to hire men in their
                     room; that eight of the general's guard were concerned, but mentioned only
                     Green by name; he further ther told me, that one Forbes, a tavern keeper, was
                     to be their captain, but that the inferior officers were not yet appointed,
                     lest the scheme should be discovered.
                  The prisoner here being called upon to make his defence, produces no evidence,
                     but says "he engaged in the scheme at first for the sake of cheating the
                     Tories, and getting some money from them, and afterward consented to have his
                     name sent on board the man-of-war, in order that, if the enemy should arrive
                     and defeat the army here, and he should be taken prisoner, he might be
                     safe."
                  WILLIAM FORBES, of Goshen Precinct, in Orange County, tanner and currier, being
                     examined, saith: That he knows Gilbert Forbes, of the city of New York,
                     gunsmith; that the first time he saw him was in this city, between the brick
                     meeting and the jail; that he heard somebody call him Mr. Forbes; this
                     examinant accosted him, and told him that his name was Forbes also; that
                     thereupon they went into Houlding's tavern, and drank together; that he has
                     been at the house of the said Gilbert Forbes, on an invitation from him. That
                     he knows a sergeant in General Washington's Guards, but cannot recollect his
                     name; that he became acquainted with him at Corby's (an inn-keeper), near
                     General Washington's; that this examinant went to Corby's in company with one
                     James Mason, of Ringwood, who was at work in Corby's garden; that the sergeant
                     was a middle-sized, fair-complexioned man—an Englishman; that examinant became
                     acquainted with James Mason at Duchess County; afterward saw him at Goshen, and
                     from thence came in company with him to this town; that he told Mason he had
                     been on board the man-of-war last winter, while she lay in the East River; that
                     he never was on board the Duchess of Gordon; that he never said he was on board
                     the Savage when she fired on Staten Island; that he had heard, and, among
                     others, from the said Mason, that two hundred acres of land were offered by
                     Governor Tryon to each man who would go in the king's service, and one hundred
                     to the wife, and fifty to each child; that examinant borrowed twenty odd
                     shillings of Mason, and promised to
                     pay him when examinant got money from on board the man-of-war, where he had two
                     brother's-in-law, who had promised to send him money to pay his debts; that he
                     never had engaged with Governor Tryon, or any other person whatever, to
                     undertake the business of enlisting soldiers for the king, nor of enticing the
                     Continental soldiers to leave that service; that he and Mason came to town by
                     way of Elizabethtown, and that at Warwick Mason persuaded one William Benjamin
                     to go along with them; that he knows Peter McLean, a shoemaker, near the
                     Exchange; that examinant applied to him to put him on board the man-of-war;
                     that McLean answered he could not do it all, the sentries were so strict; that
                     examinant then said to McLean that then he would enlist in the Continental
                     service, which he has since done, in Captain Beekman's company, of Lasher's
                     battalion; that examinant and Mason lodged, the first night they came to town,
                     at Houlding's; that while they were there, Corby was introduced to Benjamin and
                     Mason by Gilbert Forbes and the aforesaid sergeant of the guards. This
                     examinant says the said sergeant and Gilbert Forbes administered oaths of
                     secrecy to Mason and two or three soldiers; that Corby was present when the
                     said soldiers were sworn as aforesaid. That after McLean, as aforesaid, had
                     told this examinant that he knew not how to get on board the man-of-war, McLean
                     recommended him to David Matthews, Esq., as a proper person to direct him how
                     to get on board the man-of-war; that examinant accordingly went to Mr.
                     Matthews, and told him that McLean had directed examinant to him as a proper
                     person to tell him how he should get on board the man-of-war, and that there
                     was a lad (meaning Mason) that had come down from Ringwood, who wanted to go
                     along; that Mr. Matthews told him that it was too dangerous for him to say
                     anything about it, but that he would direct him to one who could get him on
                     board, and sent this examinant for that purpose to Gilbert Forbes; that this
                     examinant accordingly applied to the said Gilbert Forbes, and that Forbes said
                     he could not do anything in it till he had seen Corby; that shortly after, the
                     said Gilbert Forbes told this examinant he had seen Corby, and that Corby said
                     he would get examinant on board in a few days; that examinant afterward saw
                     Corby, and that he made the like promise to examinant, but Corby afterward told
                     him he could not, and that he had been able to send only one on board by a
                     mulatto fellow. That this examinant knows John Clarke, and that he told this
                     examinant that he had fifty or sixty men to go in the king's service, and that
                     he had prevailed upon his brother, Anthony Clarke, to consent to go with them;
                     that John Clarke was to be a captain, and that one Seeley, of Chester, in
                     Orange County, was also to be one of the officers.
                  
                     WILLIAM FORBES.
                     Examined 23d day of July, 1776, before us:
                     JOHN JAY,
                     GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.
                  
               
               
                  JOHN YATES, of the Wallkill Precinct, in Ulster County, laborer, being sworn,
                     saith: That early in this last spring, Absalom Bull, one of deponent's
                     neighbors, came to him, and told him that he was but a poor man, and that if he
                     would go with the said Bull, he would make a gentleman of this deponent; that
                     this deponent asked him how; he replied that if this deponent would go and
                     serve the king for three years, or to the end of the American war, if that
                     should sooner happen, this deponent should have two hundred acres of land on
                     the frontiers; that deponent said it was very uncertain, for he did not see how
                     he was to get a warranty deed for it; but if he could get a warranty deed for
                     two hundred acres of land, he did not know but he might engage; on this they
                     parted; that for many days repeatedly after that, the said Absalom Bull,
                     together with Isaac Waugh and Richard Bull, came to this deponent and pressed
                     him to enter into the king's service, but the deponent put them off; that they
                     afterward went, as they informed this deponent, on board the man-of-war, and
                     when they returned, brought him a letter from Governor Tryon, informing this
                     deponent that if he would come on
                     board his ship and pilot the men-of-war up the river, he would give this
                     deponent a dollar a day and five pounds a foot for every foot that the vessel
                     he piloted drew more than twenty feet, and should have two hundred acres of
                     land at the determination of the American war; and that Ireland, Scotland, and
                     Wales had all united with England to subdue America; that this deponent had,
                     till within a few years last past, been a seafaring man, and was well
                     acquainted with the navigation of the North River, which was well known to his
                     said neighbors, and, as this deponent believes, was by them made known to
                     Governor Tryon; that this deponent afterward received two other letters of the
                     like import from Governor Tryon; that about six weeks this deponent, together
                     with the said Absalom Bull, Richard Bull, and Isaac Waugh, travelled from their
                     homes down through Westchester County to Whitestone Ferry, where they crossed
                     over to Long Island, and thence to Hempstead, and went to the house of one
                     Simonson, a tavern-keeper in that town; that they went from thence to the house
                     of Captain Hulet, where they all lodged; that the next morning this deponent's
                     companions went off from Rockaway in an oyster boat that plied between that
                     coast and the ships, and supplied them with provisions, as he was informed and
                     believed; that they desired this deponent to go with them, but this deponent
                     being sick and not much inclined to go on board, said he would wait at Captain
                     Hulet's till their return; that after three days they all returned to this
                     deponent at Captain Hulet's aforesaid, and that Colonel Fanning, the governor's
                     secretary, came with them; that the said Colonel Fanning was well known to this
                     deponent, he having often seen him, and this deponent having been a mariner in
                     Captain Hunter's ship, which brought the colonel from England; that at present
                     this deponent did not know Colonel Fanning, he being disguised in the dress of
                     a common laboring man, but on taking this deponent aside, he made himself known
                     to him, where upon this deponent immediately recollected his face and person;
                     that he asked this deponent to go on board with him; this deponent answered
                     that he was too sick to go; that then the colonel told him that if he could not
                     go then he must come down when the fleet arrived, and that they would send this
                     deponent a letter informing him of it, to which this deponent agreed; that
                     Colonel Fanning told him New York was to be the seat of war; that some of the
                     fleet would run around into the Sound, and land troops on Long Island; that
                     another division would land on the south side and hoist the king's standard;
                     and that all the men that had engaged to serve the king should come to Long
                     Island, and that there were then three field-pieces and a mortar piece under
                     the floor of the barn of the said Simonson; the said Colonel Fanning also told
                     this deponent that they should want him to pilot vessels of war up the North
                     River, and that the Savage, Phœnix, and Shuldan (which he believes was formerly
                     the Rhode Island packet) were designed for that service; that the colonel
                     desired this deponent to bring all the provisions he could on board the ships,
                     and that he should receive the following prices for them, viz.: five pounds a
                     barrel for salt pork; one shilling per pound for gammons; eighteen pence per
                     pound for butter, and a good price for fowls, eggs, etc., and then gave this
                     deponent a paper (now delivered), with a seal on it and the letters W. T. on
                     the back of it, and told this deponent that it would serve him as a pass to go
                     by all the men-of-war and cruisers unmolested; that Colonel Fanning further
                     told this deponent that Absalom Bull, aforesaid, had enlisted a great many men,
                     and desired this deponent to do the like, but this deponent declined it; that
                     this deponent knows John Clarke, a painter; that he saw him in this town about
                     a fortnight ago; that he told this deponent he was going on board the ships,
                     and requested this deponent to go with him, which this deponent refused; that
                     he advised this deponent to engage to fight for the king, and said the
                     Americans would be beat; that the aforesaid Absalom Bull showed this deponent,
                     this Spring, a list of persons whom he had enlisted for the king's service;
                     that the said Absalom told this deponent that there were two hundred names on
                     it, which this deponent really believes to be true, but this deponent does not
                     remember the names of any of them,
                     except Richard Bull, Alexander Scadden, James Scadden, Isaac Waugh, John Clarke
                     (the painter, aforesaid), Jewel Smith, and one Seeley, of a place in Orange
                     County called Oxford; that Absalom Bull, aforesaid, was to be a captain, and
                     had a commission for it from Governor Tryon, which he showed to this deponent,
                     and that it was written on parchment and a great seal hanging to it, but that
                     this deponent did not read it; the said Absalom Bull further said, that all the
                     men so enlisted for the king's service were to join the fleet when it arrived,
                     and that all who did not would be treated as deserters from the king's
                     service.
                  
                     JOHN YATES.
                     his + mark.
                     Sworn the 24th June, 1776, before us,
                     JOHN JAY,
                     GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.
                  
               
               
                  The court being cleared, after mature consideration, are unanimously of the
                     opinion that the prisoner is guilty of the charge against him, and of a breach
                     of the fifth and of the thirteenth articles of the Rules and Regulations for
                     the Government of the Continental Forces; and the court unanimously sentence
                     and adjudge that the prisoner, Thomas Hickey, suffer death for said crimes, by
                     being hanged by the neck till he is dead.
                  
                     SAMUEL H. PARSONS, President.
                  
               
               
                  WARRANT FOR THE EXECUTION OF HICKEY.
                  BY HIS EXCELLENCY, GEORGE WASHINGTON, ESQ., GENERAL AND
                     COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF THE ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES.
                  
                     
                        To the Provost Marshal of said Army:
                     
                     Whereas, Thomas Hickey, a soldier enlisted in the service of the said United
                        Colonies, has been duly convicted by a General Court Martial of mutiny and
                        sedition, and also with holding a treacherous correspondence with the
                        enemies of said Colonies, contrary to the Rules and Regulations established
                        for the government of said troops; and the said Thomas Hickey being so
                        convicted, has been sentenced to death, by being hanged by the neck till he
                        shall be dead, which sentence, by the unanimous advice of the general
                        officers of the said army, I have thought proper to confirm; These are,
                        therefore, to will and require you to execute the said sentence upon the
                        said Thomas Hickey this day, at eleven o'clock in the forenoon, upon the
                        ground between the encampments of the brigades of Brigadier General Spencer
                        and Lord Stirling, and for so doing this shall be your sufficient warrant.
                        Given under my hand this twenty-eighth day of June, in the year of our Lord,
                        one thousand seven hundred and seventy-six.
                     
                        GEORGE WASHINGTON.
                        HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, June 28th, 1776.
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        NEW YORK, June 28th, 1776.
                     
                     By virtue of, and in obedience to, the foregoing warrant, I have this day,
                        at the time and place therein ordered and directed, caused Thomas Hickey,
                        the prisoner within mentioned, to suffer death in the way and manner therein
                        prescribed, and accordingly return this warrant fully executed.*
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        *New York, July 1, 1776.—Last Friday was executed, in a field between
                           the Colonels McDougal and Huntington's camp, near the Bowery Lane (in
                           the presence of near twenty thousand spectators), a soldier belonging
                           to his Excellency General Washington's Guards, for mutiny and
                           conspiracy, being one of those who formed, and was soon to have put in
                           execution, that horrid plot of assassinating the staff officers,
                           blowing up the magazines, and securing the passes of the town, on the
                           arrival of the hungry ministerial myrmidons. It is hoped the remainder
                           of those miscreants, now in our possession, will meet with a
                           punishment adequate to their crimes.
                     
                     
                        WILLIAM MORONY,
                        Provost Marshal in the Army of the United Colonies.
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Extract of a Letter dated New York, June 24, 1776.
                     My last to you was by Friday's post, since which a most barbarous and
                        infernal plot has been discovered among our Tories, the particulars of which
                        I cannot give you, as the committee of examination consists of but three,
                        who are sworn to secrecy. Two of Washington's guards are concerned; the
                        third they tempted to join them made the first discovery. The general report
                        of their design is as follows: Upon the arrival of the troops, they were to
                        murder all the staff officers, blow up the magazines, and secure the passes
                        of the town. Gilbert Forbes, gunsmith in the Broadway, was taken between two
                        and three o'clock Saturday morning, and carried before our Provincial
                        Congress, who were then sitting, but refusing to make any discovery, he was
                        sent to jail and put in irons. Young Mr. Livingston went to see him early in
                        the morning, and told him he was sorry to find he had been concerned, and as
                        his time was very short, not having above three days to live, advised him to
                        prepare himself. This had the desired effect; he asked to be carried before
                        the Congress again, and he would discover all he knew. Several have been
                        since taken (between twenty and thirty), among them our mayor, who are all
                        now under confinement. It is said their party consisted of about five
                        hundred.
                     I have just heard that the mayor has confessed bringing money from Ryan to
                        pay for rifle-guns that Forbes had made.
                  
               
               
                  CERTIFICATES OF THE SERVICES OF COL. AARON BURR IN THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION,
                     FROM HIS FELLOW-SOLDIERS.
                  
                     Letter from SAMUEL ROWLAND, ESQ., to RICHARD V. MORRIS, ESQ.
                     
                        FAIRFIELD, CONN., January 29th, 1815.
                     
                     In answer to the inquiries relating to the evacuation of New York in 1776, I
                        can only observe, but few persons who were present and eye-witnesses of the
                        event, are now living in this part of the country; I find, however, the Rev.
                        Dr. Ripley, a gentleman of eminent respectability, and Messrs. Wakeman and
                        Jennings, respectable citizens of this town, now living, who belonged to the
                        brigade of the late General Silliman, the information of which gentlemen, on
                        any subject, can be relied on, and will be no otherwise than correct,
                        however prejudice or other cause might occasion a reluctance in disclosing
                        the information in their power to give; yet duty impelled their narrative,
                        and the neglecting an opportunity to give evidence of noble acts and
                        unrewarded worth, they consider ingratitude. In preference to
                        communicate to you by way of letter, concerning transactions of so long
                        standing as in the year 1776, I desired the inclosed certificates, which the
                        gentlemen freely gave, in order to prevent any misconstruction by passing
                        through a second hand, by which you'll have more correct information than
                        possibly is in my power to give.
                     
                        I am respectfully, your obedt. sevt.,
                        SAMUEL ROWLAND.
                        
                           RICHARD VALENTINE MORRIS, ESQ.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Certificate from the REV. HEZEKIAH RIPLEY.
                     (COPY).
                     On being inquired of by Samuel Rowland, Esq., of Fairfield town and county,
                        in the State of Connecticut, relative to my knowledge and recollection
                        respecting the merits of Col. Aaron Burr as an officer and soldier in the
                        late Revolutionary war between the United States and Great Britain, can
                        certify as follows:
                     Hezekiah Ripley, of said Fairfield, do certify: That on or about the
                        fifteenth day of September, 1776, I was the officiating chaplain of the
                        brigade, then commanded by Gen. Gold S. Sullivan; from mismanagement of the
                        commanding officer, that brigade was unfortunately left in the city of New
                        York, and at the time before mentioned. While the brigade was in front, and
                        myself considerably in the rear, I was met by the late Gen. Putnam,
                        deceased, who then informed me of the landing of the enemy above us, and that I must make
                        my escape on the west side of the island; whereupon I, on foot, crossed the
                        lots to the west side of the island unmolested, excepting by the fire from
                        the ships of the British, which at that time lay in the North River; how the
                        brigade escaped, I was not an eye-witness, but well recollect, from the
                        information I then had from Gen. Chandler (now deceased), then acting as a
                        colonel in said brigade, that Mr. Burr's exertions, bravery and good
                        conduct, was the principal means of saving the whole of that brigade from
                        falling into the hands of the enemy, and whose conduct was then by all
                        considered judicious and meritorious.
                     But, however, I well recollect before I had the information alluded to from
                        General Chandler, I had seen Mr. Burr and inquired of him how the brigade
                        had made their escape, who then told me the particulars, which were
                        afterward confirmed by all the officers, who were all of opinion that had it
                        not been for him they would not have effected their retreat and escape.
                     As to my own opinion of the management of the troops on leaving New York, I
                        then and still suppose, as did Gen. Chandler, that Col. Burr's merits then
                        as a young officer ought and did claim much attention, and whose official
                        duties as an aid-de-camp on that memorable day, justly claimed the thanks of
                        the army and his country.
                     
                        (Signed) HEZEKIAH RIPLEY.
                     
                  
                  
                     Certificate from MR. ISAAC JENNINGS and from MR. ANDREW WAKEMAN.
                     Being requested by Samuel Rowland, Esq., to give information relative to the
                        evacuation of New York in the year 1776, by the American army, we, the
                        subscribers, then acting, one in the capacity of a lieutenant, and the other
                        as a private, in the brigade commanded by the late General Sullivan, now
                        deceased, do certify: That on the fifteenth day of September (being on the
                        Lord's day) the British landed on the east side of the island, about four
                        miles above the city; the American troops retreated the same day to Harlem
                        Heights; by some misapprehension of the orders, or from other causes unknown
                        to us, our brigade was left, and was taken by General Knox to Bunkers Hill,
                        a small fort (so called) about a mile from town; the fort was scarcely able
                        to hold us all; we had but just got into the fort, when Aaron Burr, then
                        aid-de-camp to General Putnam, rode up and inquired who commanded there;
                        Gen. Knox presented himself, and Burr (then called Major Burr) asked the
                        general what he did there, and why he did not retreat with the army; the
                        general replied, that it was impossible to retreat, as the enemy were across
                        the island, and that he meant to defend that fort; Major Burr ridiculed the
                        idea of defending the place, being, as he said, without provisions or water,
                        or bomb proof, and that with one mortar, or one howitzer, the enemy would
                        take the place in four hours, or in some very short time, and again urged
                        General Knox to retreat to Harlem Heights; but General Knox said it would be
                        madness to attempt it; a smart debate ensued, the general adhering to his
                        opinion; Burr addressed himself to the men, and told them that if they
                        remained there, they would, before night, be all prisoners and crammed into
                        a dungeon, or hung like dogs; he engaged to lead them off, and observed that
                        it would be better that one-half should be killed in fighting, than all be
                        sacrificed in that cowardly manner. The men agreed to follow him, and he led
                        them out, he and his two attendants riding on the right flank; about four
                        miles from town, we were fired upon by a party of the enemy; Burr galloped
                        directly to the spot the firing came from, hallooing to the men to follow
                        him; it proved to be only a guard of about a company of the enemy, who
                        immediately fled; Burr and his horsemen pursued and killed several of them;
                        while he was thus engaged, the head of a column had taken a wrong road; Burr
                        came up and turned us to the left into a wood, and rode along the column
                        from front to rear, encouraging the men, and led us out to the main army
                        with very small loss.
                     The coolness, deliberation and valor displayed by Major Burr, in effecting a
                        safe retreat without material loss, and his meritorious services to the army
                        on that day, rendered him an
                        object of peculiar respect from the troops, and the particular notice of the
                        officers.
                     
                        (Signed) ISAAC JENNINGS, ANDREW WAKEMAN.
                     
                  
                  
                     Letter from NATHANIEL JUDSON to COMMODORE R. V. MORRIS.
                     
                        ALBANY, 10th February, 1814.
                     
                     SIR: I have received your letter with the preceding statement respecting our
                        retreat from New York Island, in September, 1776, and in compliance with
                        your request, I have to reply, that the relation made by Mr. Wakeman and Mr.
                        Jennings corresponds with my recollection. I was near Colonel Burr when he
                        had the dispute with General Knox, who said it was madness to think of
                        retreating, as we should meet the whole British army; Col. Burr did not
                        address himself to the men but to the officers, who had most of them
                        gathered around to hear what passed, as we considered ourselves as lost; but
                        Col. Burr seemed so confident that he could make good a retreat, and made it
                        clear that we were all lost if we staid there, that we all agreed to trust
                        to his conduct and courage, though it did appear to us a most desperate
                        undertaking; and he did not disappoint us, for he effected a retreat with
                        the whole brigade, and I do not think we lost more than thirty men; we had
                        several brushes with small parties of the enemy; Colonel Burr was foremost,
                        and the most active where there was danger, and his conduct, without
                        considering his extreme youth, was afterward a constant subject of praise
                        and admiration and gratitude; this affair was much talked of in the army
                        after the surrender of Fort Washington, in which a garrison of about 2,500
                        men was left under circumstances very similar to ours, this fort having no
                        bomb proof; that garrison surrendered, as is well known, on the very same
                        day our army retreated, and of those 2,500 men, not 500 men survived the
                        imprisonment they received from the British. I have since then heard it
                        repeated hundreds of times by the officers and men of Sullivan's brigade,
                        that our fate would have been the same, had it not been for Col. Burr; I was
                        a sergeant-major in Chandler's regiment of Silliman's brigade at the time of
                        the retreat.
                     
                        I am, your very humble sevt.
                        NATHL. JUDSON.
                        
                           To R. V. MORRIS, ESQ.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Letter from COLONEL RICHARD PLATT to COMMODORE V. MORRIS.
                     (Copy).
                     
                        NEW YORK, January 27, 1814.
                        
                           VALENTINE MORRIS, ESQ.,
                        
                     
                     DEAR SIR: In reply to yours of the —— of November last, requesting to be
                        informed what was the reputation and services of Colonel Burr during the
                        Revolutionary War, I give you the following detail of facts which you may
                        rely on, as no man was better acquainted with him and his military operation
                        than your humble servant, who served in that war from the 28th of June,
                        1775, till the evacuation of our capital, on the memorable 25th November,
                        1783; having passed through the grades of Lieutenant, Captain, Major, Major
                        of Brigade, Aid-de-Camp, Deputy-Adjutant-General, and
                        Deputy-Quartermaster-General, the last of which by selection and
                        recommendation of General Greene, McDougal, and Knox, in the most trying
                        crisis of the Revolution, viz., the year 1780, when the Continental money
                        ceased to pass, and there was no other fiscal resource during that campaign
                        but what resulted from the creative genius of Timothy Pickering, then
                        appointed successor to General Greene, the second officer of the American
                        army, who resigned that department because there was no money in the
                        national coffers to carry it through the campaign, declaring that he could
                        not nor would not attempt it without adequate resources, such as he abounded
                        in during the term of nearly three years antecedently as
                        quartermaster-general.
                     In addition to the foregoing, by way of elucidation, it is to be understood
                        by you, that so early as from the latter part of the year 1776, I was always
                        attached to a commanding general, and in consequence, my knowledge of the
                        officers and their merits was more general than that of almost any other in
                           the service, and my operations
                        were upon the extended scale from the remotest parts of Canada, wherever the
                        American standard had waved, to the splendid theatre of Yorktown, when and
                        where I was adjutant general to the chosen troops of the northern army.
                     At the commencement of the Revolution, Colonel Burr, then about eighteen
                        years of age, at the first sound of the trump of war (as if bred in the camp
                        of the Great Frederick, whose maxim was: "To hold his army always in
                        readiness to break a lance with or throw a dart against any assailant,")
                        quit his professional studies and rushed to the camp of General Washington,
                        at Cambridge, as a volunteer, from which he went with Colonel Arnold, on his
                        daring enterprise against Quebec, through the wilds of Canada (which vied
                        with Hannibal's march over the Alps), during which toilsome and hazardous
                        march he attracted the admiration of his commander so much that he (Arnold)
                        sent him alone to meet and hurry down General Montgomery's army from
                        Montreal, to his assistance, and recommended him to that general, who
                        appointed him his aid-de-camp, in which capacity he acted during the winter,
                        till the fatal assault on Quebec, in which that gallant general, his aid,
                        McPherson, and Captain Cheesman, commanding the forlorn hope, fell; and
                        afterward continued as aid to Arnold, the survivor in command.
                     Here I must begin to draw some of the outlines of his genius and valor,
                        which, like those of the British immortal Wolfe, who, at the age of
                        twenty-four, and only major of the 20th regiment, serving on the continent,
                        gave such specimens of genius and talents, as to evince his being destined
                        for command.
                     At the perilous moment of Montgomery's death, when dismay and consternation
                        universally prevailed, and the column halted, he animated the troops, and
                        made many efforts to lead them on, and stimulated them to enter the lower
                        town, and might have succeeded but for the positive orders of Colonel Donald
                        Campbell, the commanding officer, for the troops to retreat. Had his plan
                        been carried into effect, it might have saved Arnold's division from
                        capture, which had, after our retreat, to contend with all the British force
                        instead of a part. On this occasion I commanded the first company in the
                        first New York regiment, at the head of Montgomery's column, so that I speak
                        from ocular demonstration.
                     The next campaign, 1776, Colonel Burr was appointed aid-de-camp to
                        Major-General Putnam, second in command under General Washington, at New
                        York, and from my knowledge of that general's qualities and the colonel's, I
                        am very certain that the latter directed all the movements and operations of
                        the former.
                     In January, 1777, the continental establishment for the war commenced. Then
                        Colonel Burr was appointed by General Washington a lieutenant-colonel in
                        Malcom's regiment, in which he continued to serve until April or May, 1779,
                        when the ill state of his health obliged him to retire from active service,
                        to the regret of General McDougal, commanding the department, and those of
                        the commander-in-chief, who offered to give him a furlough for any length of
                        time, and to get permission from the British general in New York for him to
                        go to Bermuda for his health.
                     This item will show his value in the estimation of Generals Washington and
                        McDougal:
                     During the campaign of 1777, Malcom's regiment was with the main army, and
                        commanded by the lieutenant-colonel. For discipline, order, and system, it
                        was not surpassed by any in the service, and could his (the
                        lieutenant-colonel's) and Wolfe's orderly books be produced, they would be
                        very similar in point of military policy and instructions, and fit models
                        for all regiments.
                     This regiment was also hutted at the Valley Forge in 1777 and winter of
                        1778, under General Washington, and composed part of his army at the battle
                        of Monmouth, on the 28th of June, 1778, and continued with it until the
                        close of the campaign of that year, at which time it was placed in garrison
                        at West Point by General Gates; but upon General McDougal assuming the
                        command of the posts in the Highlands in December cember, Malcom's, Spencer's, and Patten's
                        regiments were together ordered to Haverstraw, the three colonels were
                        permitted to go home for the winter on furlough, and Lieutenant-Colonel Burr
                        had the command of the whole brigade at a very important advanced post.
                     At this period General McDougal ordered a detachment of about three hundred
                        troops, under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel Littlefield of the
                        Massachusetts line, to guard the lines in Westchester County, then extending
                        from Tarrytown to Whiteplains, and from thence to Mamaroneck or Saw Pits,
                        which last extension was guarded by Connecticut troops from Major-General
                        Putnam's division.
                     In this situation of affairs, a very singular occurrence presented, viz.,
                        that neither Lieutenant-Colonel Littlefield nor any other of his grade in
                        the two entire brigades of Massachusetts troops composing the garrison of
                        West Point, from which the lines were to be relieved, was competent, in the
                        general's estimation, to give security to the army above and lines below;
                        and in consequence he was compelled to call Colonel Burr from his station at
                        Haverstraw, to the more important command of the lines in Westchester, in
                        which measure, unprecedented as it was, the officers acquiesced without a
                        murmur, from a conviction of its expediency. At this time I was doing the
                        duty of adjutant-general to General McDougal.
                     It was on this new and interesting theatre of war that the confidence and
                        affections of the officers and soldiers (who now became permanent on the
                        lines, instead of being relieved every two or three weeks as before) as well
                        as of the inhabitants, all before unknown to Colonel Burr, were inspired
                        with confidence by a system of consummate skill, astonishing vigilance, and
                        extreme activity, which in like manner made such an impression on the enemy,
                        that after an unsuccessful attack on one of his advanced posts, he never
                        made any other attack on our lines during the winter.
                     His humanity and constant regard to the security of the property and persons
                        of the inhabitants from injury and insult, were not less conspicuous than
                        his military skill, etc. No man was insulted or disturbed; the health of the
                        troops was perfect; not a desertion during the whole period of his command,
                        nor a man made prisoner, though the colonel was constantly making
                        prisoners.
                     A country which, for three years before, had been a scene of robbery,
                        cruelty, and murder, became at once the abode of security and peace. Though
                        his powers were despotic, they were exercised only for the peace, the
                        security, and protection of the country and its inhabitants.
                     In the winter of 1779, the latter part of it, Major Hull, an excellent
                        officer, then in the Massachusetts line, was sent down as second to Colonel
                        Burr, who, after having been familiarized to his system, succeeded him for a
                        short time in command, about the last of April, at which time Colonel Burr's
                        health would not permit him to continue in command; but the major was soon
                        compelled to fall back many miles, so as to be within supporting distance of
                        the army to the Highlands.
                     The severity of the service, and the ardent and increasing activity with
                        which he had devoted himself to his country's cause for more than four
                        years, having materially impaired his health, he was compelled to leave the
                        post and retire from active service. It was two years before he regained his
                        health.
                     Major Hull has ever since borne uniformly the most honorable testimony of
                        the exalted talents of his commander, by declaring his gratitude for being
                        placed under an officer whose system of duty was different from that of all
                        other commanders under whom he had served.
                     Having thus exhibited the colonel's line of march and his operations in
                        service, I must now present him in contrast with his equals in rank and his
                        superiors in command.
                     In September, 1777, the enemy came out on both sides of the Hudson
                        simultaneously, in considerable force, say from two to three thousand men;
                        on the east side (at Peekskill) was a major-general of our army, with an
                        effective force of about two thousand men. The enemy advanced, and our
                        general retired without engaging them; our barracks and store-houses and the whole village of
                        Peekskill were sacked and burnt and the country pillaged.
                     On the west side, at the mouth of the Clove, near Suffren's, was Colonel
                        Burr, commanding Malcom's regiment, about three hundred and fifty men. On
                        the first alarm he marched to find the enemy, and on the same night attacked
                        and took their picket guard, rallied the country, and made such show of war
                        that the enemy retreated the next morning, leaving behind him the cattle,
                        horses, and sheep they had plundered.
                     The year following, Lieutenant-Colonel Thompson was sent to command on the
                        same lines, in Westchester, by General Heath, and he was surprised at nine
                        or ten o'clock in the day, and made prisoner, with a great part of his
                        detachment.
                     Again, in the succeeding winter, Colonel Green, of the Rhode Island line,
                        with his own and another Rhode Island regiment, who was a very distinguished
                        officer, and had with these two regiments, in the year 1777, defeated
                        Hessian grenadiers, under Count Donap, at Red Bank, on the Delaware, who was
                        mortally wounded and taken prisoner, commanded on the lines in Westchester,
                        there receded to Pine's Bridge, and in this position Colonel Green's troops
                        were also surprised after breakfast and dispersed, the colonel himself and
                        Major Flagg killed, and many soldiers made prisoners, besides killed and
                        wounded.
                     On the west side of the Hudson, in the year 1780, General Wayne, the hero of
                        Stony Point, with a large command, and field artillery, made an attack on a
                        block house, nearly opposite Dobb's ferry, defended by Cow-boys, and was
                        repulsed with loss; whereas Col. Burr burnt and destroyed one of a similar
                        kind in the winter of 1779, near Delancy's Mills, with a very few men and
                        without any loss on his part, besides capturing the garrison.
                     Here, my good friend, Commodore, I must drop the curtain till I see you in
                        Albany, which will be in the first week in February, where I can and will
                        convince you that he is the only man in America, (that is) the United
                        States, who is fit to be a lieutenant-general, and let you and I, and all
                        the American can people look out for Mr. Madison's lieutenant-general in
                        contrast. Adieu. I am,
                     
                        Your friend and most obt. servt.,
                        (Signed) RICHD. PLATT.
                     
                  
                  
                     Copy of a letter from ROBERT HUNTER, ESQ., formerly a lieutenant in
                        MALCOM'S regiment, to GABRIEL FURMAN, ESQ., member of Assembly.
                     
                        NEW YORK, January 22d, 1814.
                     
                     DEAR SIR: I have understood that an application will be made to the
                        Legislature by, or on behalf of Col. Burr, for remuneration for his military
                        services during our Revolutionary war.
                     Having had the happiness to serve under him for more than two years, and
                        having retained an unbounded respect for his talents and character, you will
                        pardon me for asking your active support of anything which may be moved in
                        his favor; for certainly if any officer of the army deserved recompense, it
                        is Col. Burr.
                     He sacrificed his health, and underwent more fatigue and privations than any
                        other officer of whom I had any knowledge.
                     If I thought it could be useful to him or amusing to you, I would enter into
                        details; but the facts are of general notoriety, and his superiority as a
                        military man, is, as far as my knowledge extends, universally allowed.
                     I will, however, detain you while I relate a single incident, because it was
                        the first of which I was a witness: I was attached as a cadet to Col.
                        Malcom's regiment, then stationed in the Clove, when Burr joined it as
                        lieutenant-colonel, being in the summer of 1777; Malcolm seeing that his
                        presence was unnecessary while Burr was there, was with his family about
                        twenty miles distant. Early in September we heard that the enemy were out in
                        great force; Burr gave orders for the security of the camp and of the public
                        stores, and within one hour after news was received, marched with the choice
                        of the regiment ment to find the
                        enemy; at Paramus the militia were assembled in considerable force, but in
                        great disorder and terror; no one could tell the force or position of the
                        enemy; Burr assumed the command, to which they submitted cheerfully, as he
                        alone (though but a boy in appearance) seemed to know what he was about; he
                        arranged and encouraged them as well as time would permit, and taking a few
                        of the most hardy of the men, continued his march toward the enemy; two or
                        three miles this side Hackensack, we learned that we were near the enemy's
                        advanced guard; Burr chose a convenient place for the men to repose, and
                        went himself to examine the position of the enemy; a little before daylight
                        he returned, waked us and ordered us to follow him; he led us silently and
                        undiscovered within a few paces of the British guard, which we took or
                        killed; from the prisoners we learned that the enemy were about 2,000
                        strong; without loss of time he sent expresses with orders to the militia,
                        and to call out the country, and I have no doubt but he would within
                        forty-eight hours have had an army capable of checking the progress of the
                        enemy, and of preventing or impeding their retreat; but they retreated the
                        day following, and with every mark of precipitation; during these two days
                        and nights, the colonel did not lay down or take a minute's repose; thus you
                        perceive, my dear sir, that Burr being more than thirty miles distant when
                        he heard of the enemy, was in their camp the same night; you will agree with
                        me that things are not done so now-a-days.
                     Similar instances of activity and enterprise occurred in each of the four
                        campaigns he served, and very frequently during the winter he commanded on
                        the lines of West Chester.
                     I repeat that it will afford me pleasure to relate so much of these things
                        as came to my own knowledge, if it would be of any use.
                     Malcom was never a month with the regiment after Burr joined it, so that it
                        was Burr who formed it, and it was a model for the whole army in discipline
                        and order; he never in a single instance permitted any corporal
                        punishment.
                     His attention and care of the men was such as I never saw, nor anything
                        approaching to it, in any other officer, though I served under many,
                     It would be a disgrace to the country if such a man should be denied a
                        liberal compensation, when it is too well known that he stands in need of
                        it.
                     I shall consider myself as personally obliged by your exertions in his
                        favor, and hope your colleagues will add theirs to yours.
                     Please to show this letter to your colleagues, and to offer them my
                        respects.
                     
                        I am, yours, etc.,
                        (Signed) ROBERT HUNTER.
                        
                           To G. FURMAN, ESQ., Member of Assembly, Albany,
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     Copy of a letter from SAMUEL YOUNG, ESQ., of West Chester County, lately
                        Member of Assembly, and for many years Surrogate of the county, to COMMODORE
                        VALENTINE MORRIS.
                     
                        MOUNT PLEASANT, January 25th, 1814.
                     
                     DEAR SIR: Your letter of the 30th ult., asking for some account of the
                        campaign in which I served under the command of Col. Burr during the
                        Revolutionary War, was received some days ago, and has been constantly in my
                        mind. I will reply to it with pleasure, but the compass of a letter will not
                        admit of much detail.
                     I resided in the lines from the commencement of the Revolution until the
                        winter of the year 1780, when my father's house was burned by order of the
                        British general; the county of West Chester, very soon after the
                        commencement of hostilities, became, on account of its exposed situation, a
                        scene of the deepest distress; from the Croton to King's Bridge, every
                        species of rapine and lawless violence prevailed; no man went to his bed but
                        under the apprehension of having his house plundered or burned, or himself
                        or family massacred before morning; some, under the character of Whigs,
                        plundered the Tories, while others of the latter description plundered the
                        Whigs; parties of marauders, assuming either character, or none, as suited their convenience,
                        indiscriminately assailed both Whigs and Tories; so little vigilance was
                        used on our part, that the emissaries and spies of the enemy passed and
                        repassed without interruption.
                     These calamities continued undiminished until the arrival of Col. Burr, in
                        the autumn of the year 1778; he took command of the same troops which his
                        predecessor, Col. Littlefield, commanded; at the moment of Col. Burr's
                        arrival, Col. Littlefield had returned from a plundering expedition (for to
                        plunder those called Tories was then deemed lawful), and had brought up
                        horses, cattle, bedding, clothing and other articles of easy transportation,
                        which he had proposed to distribute among the party the next day; Col.
                        Burr's first act of authority was to seize and secure all this plunder, and
                        he immediately took measures for restoring it to the owners; this gave us
                        much trouble, but it was abundantly repaid by the confidence it inspired; he
                        then made known his determination to suppress plundering; the same day he
                        visited all the guards, changed their position, dismissed some of the
                        officers whom he found totally incompetent, gave new instructions; on the
                        same day, also, he commenced a register of the names and characters of all
                        who resided near and below his guards; distinguished by secret marks, the
                        Whig, the timid Whig, the Tory, the horse-thief, and those concerned in, or
                        suspected of giving information to the enemy; he also began a map of the
                        country in the vicinity of the fort, of the roads, by-roads, paths, creeks,
                        morasses, etc., which might become hiding-places for the disaffected, or for
                        marauding parties; this map was made by Col. Burr, himself, from such
                        materials as he could collect on the spot, but principally from his own
                        observation.
                     He raised and established a corps of horsemen from among the respectable
                        farmers and young men of the country, of tried patriotism, fidelity, and
                        courage; these also served as aids and confidential persons for the
                        transmission of orders. To this corps I attached myself as a volunteer; but
                        did not receive pay. He employed discreet and faithful persons, living near
                        the enemy's lines, to watch their motions, and give him immediate diate
                        intelligence. He employed mounted videttes for the same purpose, directing
                        two of them to proceed together, so that one might be dispatched, if
                        necessary, with information to the colonel, while the other might watch the
                        enemy's movement. He established signals throughout the lines, so that
                        whether by night or day, instant notice could be had of an attack or
                        movement of the enemy. He enforced various regulations for concealing his
                        positions and force from the enemy.
                     The laxity of discipline which had before prevailed, enabled the enemy
                        frequently to employ their emissaries to come within the lines and to learn
                        the precise state of our forces, supplies, etc. Colonel Burr soon put an end
                        to these dangerous intrusions, by prohibiting all persons residing below the
                        lines, except a few whom he selected, such as Parson Bartow, Jacob Smith,
                        and others, whose integrity was unimpeachable, from approaching the outposts
                        without special permission for the purpose. If any one had a complaint or
                        request to make of the colonel, he procured one or more of the persons he
                        had selected, to come to his quarters on his behalf; this measure prevented
                        frivolous and vexatious applications, and the still more dangerous approach
                        of enemies in disguise. All these measures were entirely new, and within
                        eight or ten days the whole system appeared to be in complete operation, and
                        the face of things was totally changed.
                     A few days after the colonel's arrival, the house of one Gedney was
                        plundered in the night, and the family abused and terrified. Gedney sent his
                        son to make a representation of it to the colonel. The young man not
                        regarding the orders which had been issued, came to the colonel's quarters,
                        undiscovered by the sentinels, having taken a secret path through the fields
                        for the purpose. For this violation of orders the young man was punished.
                        The colonel immediately took measures for the detection of the plunderers,
                        and though they were all disguised and wholly unknown to Gedney, yet Colonel
                        Burr, by means which were never yet disclosed, discovered the plunderers,
                        and had them all secured within twenty-four hours. Gedney's family, on reference to his
                        register, appeared to be Tories, but Burr had promised that every quiet man
                        should be protected.
                     He caused the robbers to be conveyed to Gedney's house, under the charge of
                        Captain Benson, there to restore the booty they had taken; to make
                        reparation in money for such articles as were lost or damaged, and for the
                        alarm and abuse, the amount of which the colonel assessed; to be flogged ten
                        lashes, and to ask pardon of the old man, all which was faithfully and
                        immediately executed.
                     These measures gave universal satisfaction, and the terror they inspired
                        effectually prevented a repetition of similar depredations. From this day
                        plundering ceased. No further instance occurred during the time of Colonel
                        Burr's command; for it was universally believed that Colonel Burr could tell
                        a robber by looking in his face, or that he had supernatural means of
                        discovering crime. Indeed I was myself inclined to these opinions. This
                        belief was confirmed by another circumstance which had previously occurred.
                        On the day of his arrival, after our return from visiting the posts,
                        conversing with several of his attendants, and among others Lieutenant
                        Drake, whom Burr had brought with him from his own regiment, he said:
                        "Drake, that post on the North River will be attacked before morning;
                        neither officers nor men know anything of their duty. You must go and take
                        charge of it. Keep your eyes open, or you will have your throat cut." Drake
                        went. The post was attacked that night by a company of horse. They were
                        repulsed with loss. Drake returned in the morning with trophies of war, and
                        told his story. We stared and asked one another, "How could Burr know that?"
                        (for he had not then established any means of intelligence.)
                     The measures immediately adopted by him were such that it was impossible for
                        the enemy to have passed their own lines without his having immediate
                        knowledge, and it was these very measures which saved Major Hull, on whom
                        the command devolved for a short time, when the state of Colonel Burr's
                        health compelled him to retire.
                     These measures, together with the deportment of Colonel Burr, gained him the
                        love and veneration of all devoted to the common cause, and conciliated even
                        its bitterest foes. His habits were a subject of admiration: his diet was
                        simple and spare in the extreme; seldom sleeping more than an hour at a
                        time, and without taking off his clothes or even his boots. Between midnight
                        and two o'clock in the morning, accompanied by two or three of his corps of
                        horsemen, he visited the quarters of all his captains, and their picket
                        guards, changing his route from time to time, to prevent notice of his
                        approach. You may judge of the severity of this duty when I assure you that
                        the distance which he thus rode every night must have been from sixteen to
                        twenty-four miles, and that with the exception of two nights only in which
                        he was otherwise engaged, he never omitted these excursions, even in the
                        severest and most stormy weather; and except the short time necessarily
                        consumed in hearing and answering commands and petitions from persons both
                        above and below the lines, Colonel Burr was constantly with the troops.
                     He attended to the minutest articles of their comfort—to their lodgings, to
                        their diet; for those off duty he invented sports, all tending to some
                        useful end. During two or three weeks after the colonel's arrival, we had
                        many sharp conflicts with the robbers and horse thieves, who were hunted
                        down with unceasing industry. In many instances we encountered great
                        superiority of numbers; but always with success. Many of them were killed
                        and many taken.
                     The strictest discipline prevailed, and the army felt the fullest confidence
                        in their commander and in themselves, and by these means became really
                        formidable to the enemy. During the same winter Governor Tryon planned an
                        expedition to Horseneck, for the purpose of destroying the salt-works
                        erected there, and marched with about two thousand men. Colonel Burr
                        received early information of their movements, and sent word to General
                        Putnam to hold the enemy at bay for a few hours, and he (Colonel Burr) would
                        be in their rear, and be answerable for them. By a messenger from him,
                           Col. Burr was informed by that
                        general, that he had been obliged to retreat, and that the enemy were
                        advancing into Connecticut. This information, which unfortunately was not
                        correct, altered Colonel Burr's route toward Mamaroneck, which enabled Tryon
                        to get the start of him. Colonel Burr then endeavored to intercept him in
                        Eastchester, according to his first plan, and actually got within cannon
                        shot of him. But Tryon run too fast, and in his haste left most or all of
                        his cattle and plunder behind him, and many stragglers who were picked
                        up.
                     I will mention another enterprise which proved more successful, though
                        equally hazardous. Soon after Tryon's retreat, Colonel Delancy, who
                        commanded the British refugees, in order to secure themselves against
                        surprise, erected a block house on a rising ground below Delancy's Bridge.
                        This Col. Burr resolved to destroy. I was in that expedition, and recollect
                        the circumstances.
                     He procured a number of hand-grenades, also rolls of port-fire, and canteens
                        filled with inflammable materials, with contrivances to attach them to the
                        side of the block-house. He set out with his troops early in the evening,
                        and arrived within a mile of the block-house by two o'clock in the morning.
                        The colonel gave Captain Black the command of about forty volunteers, who
                        were first to approach. Twenty of them were to carry the port-fires, etc.,
                        etc. Those who had hand-grenades had short ladders to enable them to reach
                        the port-holes, the exact height of which Colonel Burr had ascertained.
                        Colonel Burr gave Captain Black his instructions in the hearing of his
                        company, assuring him of his protection if they were attacked by superior
                        numbers; for it was expected that the enemy, who had several thousand men at
                        and near King's Bridge, would endeavor to cut us off, as we were several
                        miles below them. Burr directed those who carried the combustibles to march
                        in front as silently as possible; that on being hailed, they should light
                        the hand-grenades, etc., with a slow match provided for the purpose, and
                        throw them into the portholes. I was one of the party that advanced. The
                        sentinel hailed and fired. We rushed on. The first hand-grenade that was
                        thrown in drove the enemy from the upper story, and before they could take
                        any measure to defend it, the block-house was on fire in several places.
                        Some few escaped, and the rest surrendered without our having lost a single
                        man. Though many shots were fired at us, we did not fire a gun.
                     During the period of Colonel Burr's command, but two attempts were made by
                        the enemy to surprise our guards, in both of which they were defeated.
                     After Colonel Burr left this command, Colonel Thompson, a man of approved
                        bravery, assumed it, and the enemy, in open day, advanced to his
                        head-quarters, took Colonel Thompson, and took and killed all his men with
                        the exception of about thirty.
                     My father's house, with all his out-houses were burnt. After these
                        disasters, our troops never made an effort to protect that part of the
                        country. The American lines were afterward changed and extended from Bedford
                        to Croton Bridge, and from there, following the course of that river, to the
                        Hudson. All the intermediate country was abandoned and unprotected, being
                        about twenty miles in the rear of the ground which Colonel Burr had
                        maintained.
                     The year after, the defeat of Colonel Thompson, Colonel Green, a brave, and
                        in many respects a valuable officer, took the command, making his
                        head-quarters at Danfords, about a mile above the Croton. This position was
                        well chosen; but Colonel Green omitted to inform himself of the movements of
                        the enemy, and, consequently, was surprised. Himself, Major Flagg, and other
                        officers were killed, and a great part of the men were either killed or
                        taken prisoners; yet these officers had the full benefit of Colonel Burr's
                        system.
                     Having perused what I have written, it does not appear to me that I have
                        conveyed any adequate idea of Burr's military character. It may be aided a
                        little by reviewing the effects he produced. The troops of which he took
                        command were, at the time he took the command, undisciplined, negligent,
                           and discontented; desertions
                        were frequent. In a few days these very men were transformed into brave and
                        honest defenders—orderly, contented, and cheerful, confident in their own
                        courage, and loving to adoration their commander, whom every man considered
                        as his personal friend. It was thought a severe punishment as well as a
                        disgrace to be sent up to the camp, where they had nothing to do but to
                        lounge and eat their rations.
                     During the whole of his command, there was not a single desertion; not a
                        single death by sickness; not one made prisoner by the enemy; for Burr had
                        taught us that a soldier with arms in his hand ought never, under any
                        circumstances, to surrender; no matter if he was opposed to thousands, it
                        was his duty to fight.
                     After the first ten days, there was not a single instance of robbery. The
                        whole country under his command enjoyed security. The inhabitants, to
                        express their gratitude, frequently brought presents of such articles as the
                        country afforded; but Colonel Burr would accept no present. He fixed
                        reasonable prices, and paid in cash for everything that was received, and
                        sometimes I know that these payments were made with his own money. Whether
                        these advances were repaid, I know not.
                     Colonel Simcoe, one of the most daring and active partisans in the British
                        army, was, with Colonels Emerick and Delancy, opposed to Burr on the lines,
                        yet they were completely held in check.
                     But perhaps the highest eulogy on Colonel Burr is, that no man could be
                        found capable of executing his plans, though the example was before
                        them.
                     When Burr left the lines a sadness overspread the country, and the most
                        gloomy forebodings were too soon fulfilled, as you have seen above.
                     The period of Colonel Burr's command was so full of activity and of
                        incident, that every day afforded some new lesson of instruction.
                     But you will expect only a general outline, and this faint one is the best
                        in my power to give.
                     
                        I am, with real esteem,
                        Your obedient servant,
                        (Signed) SAMUEL YOUNG.
                     
                  
               
               
                  MARGARET MONCRIEFFE, GENERAL PUTNAM, AND AARON BURR.
                  From Parton's Life of Aaron Burr, pp. 88-95.
                  At Kingsbridge, about the date of this letter,*
                      Burr was engaged in an adventure little in harmony with the warlike
                      scenes around him.
                  
                     
                     *September, 1776.
                  
                  The breaking out of the Revolutionary War found a number of British officers
                     domesticated among the colonists, and connected with them by marriage. In New
                     York and the other garrisoned towns, officers of the army led society, as
                     military men still do in every garrisoned town in the world. When hostilities
                     began, and every man was ordered to his post, some of these officers left their
                     families residing among the people; and it happened, in a few instances, that
                     the events of war carried a father far away from his wife and children, never
                     to rejoin them. The future Scott of America will know how to make all this very
                     familiar to the American people by the romantic and pathetic fictions which it
                     will suggest to him.
                  Margaret Moncrieffe, a girl of fourteen, but a woman in development and
                     appetite, witty, vivacious, piquant, and beautiful, had been left at
                     Elizabethtown, in New Jersey, by her father, Major Moncrieffe, who was then
                     with his regiment on Staten Island, and of course cut off from communication
                     with his daughter. Destitute of resources, and anxious to rejoin her father,
                     she wrote to General Putnam for his advice and assistance. General Putnam received her letter
                     in New York about the time that Major Burr joined him, and his reply was
                     prepared for his signature by the hand of his new aid-de-camp. The good old
                     general declared in this letter that he was her father's enemy, indeed, as an
                     officer, but as a man, his friend, and ready to do any good office for him or
                     his. He invited her to come and reside in his family until arrangements could
                     be made for sending her to Staten Island. She consented, an officer was sent to
                     conduct her to the city, and she was at once established in General Putnam's
                     house. There she met and became intimate with Major Burr.
                  What followed from their intimacy has been stated variously. Great indeed was
                     my astonishment, on recurring to the work itself,*
                      to find that her narrative, read in connection, not only affords no
                     support to Mr. Davis' insinuations, but explicitly, and twice, contradicts
                     them. It is known and conceded that the young officer whom she extols in such
                     passionate language, and whom she miscalls "colonel," was Major Burr. Thus
                     writes Mrs. Coughlan, née Moncrieffe:
                  "When I arrived in Broadway (a street so called), where General Putnam resided,
                     I was received with great tenderness, both by Mrs. Putnam and her daughters,
                     and on the following day I was introduced by them to General and Mrs.
                     Washington, who likewise made it their study to show me every mark of regard;
                     but I seldom was allowed to be alone, although sometimes, indeed, I found an
                     opportunity to escape to the gallery on the top of the house, where my chief
                     delight was to view, with a telescope, our fleet and army on Staten Island. My
                     amusements were few; the good Mrs. Putnam employed me and her daughters
                     constantly to spin flax for shirts for the American soldiers, indolence, in
                     America, being totally discouraged; and I likewise worked for General Putnam,
                     who, though not an accomplished muscadin, like our
                     dilettanti of St. James' street, was certainly one of the best characters in
                     the world, his heart being composed of those noble materials which equally
                     command respect and admiration.
                  
                     
                     *Memoirs of Major Coughlan, published by Swords, New York.
                  
                  
                  "Not long after this circumstance, a flag of truce arrived from Staten Island,
                     with letters from Major Moncrieffe, demanding me, for they now considered me as
                     a prisoner. General Washington would not acquiesce in this demand, saying 'that
                     I should remain a hostage for my father's good behavior.' I must here observe,
                     that when General Washington refused to deliver me up, the noble-minded Putnam,
                     as if it were by instinct, laid his hand on his sword, and, with a violent
                     oath, swore 'that my father's request should be granted.' The
                     commander-in-chief, whose influence governed the Congress, soon prevailed on
                     them to consider me as a person whose situation required their strict
                     attention; and that I might not escape, they ordered me to Kingsbridge, where,
                     in justice, I must say, that I was treated with the utmost tenderness. General
                     Mifflin there commanded. His lady was a most accomplished, beautiful woman—a
                     Quaker. And here my heart received its first impression—an impression that,
                     amidst the subsequent shocks which it has received, has never been effaced, and
                     which rendered me very unfit to admit the embraces of an unfeeling, brutish
                     husband.
                  "O, may these pages one day meet the eye of him*
                      who subdued my virgin heart, whom the immutable, unerring laws of
                     nature had pointed out for my husband, but whose sacred decree the barbarous
                     customs of society fatally violated. To him I plighted my virgin vow, and I
                     shall never cease to lament that obedience to a father left it incomplete. When
                     I reflect on my past sufferings, now that, alas! my present sorrows press
                     heavily upon me, I cannot refrain from expatiating a little on the inevitable
                     horrors which ever attend the frustration of natural affections: I myself, who,
                     unpitied by the world, have endured every calamity that human nature knows, am
                     a melancholy example of this truth; for if I know
                     
                        
                        *Col. Aaron Burr.
                      my own heart, it is far better calculated for
                     the purer joys of domestic life, than for the hurricane of extravagance and
                     dissipation in which I have been wrecked.
                  "Why is the will of nature so often perverted? Why is social happiness forever
                     sacrificed at the altar of prejudice? Avarice has usurped the throne of reason,
                     and the affections of the heart are not consulted. We cannot command our
                     desires, and when the object of our being is unattained, misery must be
                     necessarily our doom. Let this truth, therefore, be forever remembered: when
                     once an affection has rooted itself in a tender, constant heart, no time, no
                     circumstance can eradicate it. Unfortunate, then, are they who are joined, if
                     their hearts are not matched!
                  "With this conqueror of my soul, how happy should I now have been! What storms
                     and tempests should I have avoided (at least I am pleased to think so) if I had
                     been allowed to follow the bent of my inclinations! and happier, O, ten
                     thousand times happier should I have been with him, in the wildest desert of
                     our native country, the woods affording us our only shelter, and their fruits
                     our only repast, than under the canopy of costly state, with all the
                     refinements and embellishments of courts, with the royal warrior who would fain
                     have proved himself the conqueror of France.
                  "My conqueror was engaged in another cause, he was ambitious to obtain other
                     laurels: he fought to liberate, not to enslave nations. He was a colonel in the
                     American army, and high in the estimation of his country: his victories were
                     never accompanied with one gloomy, relenting thought; they shone as bright as
                     the cause which achieved them! I had communicated by letter to General Putnam
                     the proposals of this gentleman, with my determination to accept them, and I
                     was embarrassed by the answer which the general returned; he entreated me to
                     remember that the person in question, from his political principles, was
                     extremely obnoxious to my father, and concluded by observing, 'that I surely
                     must not unite myself with a man who would not hesitate to drench his sword in
                     the blood of my nearest relation, should he be opposed posed to him in battle.'
                     Saying this, he lamented the necessity of giving advice contrary to his own
                     sentiments, since in every other respect he considered the match as
                     unexceptionable."
                  According to a story told by the late Colonel W. L. Stone (author of the "Life
                     of Brant"), it was no other than Burr himself. Before her arrival at General
                     Putnam's, it appears that Burr, though he was delighted with her with and
                     vivacity, conceived the idea that she might be a British spy; and as he was
                     looking over her shoulder one day, while she was painting a bouquet, the
                     suspicion darted into his mind that she was using the "language of flowers" for
                     the purpose of conveying intelligence to the enemy. He communicated his
                     suspicion to General Washington, who thought it only prudent to remove her a
                     few miles further inland, to the quarters of General Mifflin; where, after the
                     evacuation of the city, Burr met her again, and, as she says, won her virgin
                     affections. Colonel Stone was very intimate with Burr in his later years, and
                     had long conversations with him about Revolutionary times. He may have derived
                     this pretty tale from Burr himself.
               
               
                  PARAGRAPH RELATING TO MARGARET MONCRIEFFE.
                  From a New York Newspaper of July, 1846.
                  During the Revolutionary War, there was an extraordinary lady, highly gifted
                     and beautiful, who made a great noise at that time, by the name of Moncrieffe,
                     who subsequently wrote her memoirs, which will be found in the City Library.
                     While she was riding on horseback near our lines, with a servant, she was taken
                     prisoner and brought to West Point, her father being a major in the British
                     service, and a distinguished engineer. She was detained as a prisoner by
                     General Putnam. An American officer of any rank, she said, would be given for
                     her. She commenced drawing flowers for her amusement, which were executed with great taste
                     and skill, and presented them to General Putnam. She drew some also for her own
                     purposes. In this manner her time was occupied for several days, promenading
                     the walks wheresoever she thought proper. Col. Burr, aid to Putnam, was absent
                     during this period. On his return to camp, these specimens of the lady's taste
                     and talent were shown to him. He requested the favor of being shown all that
                     she had drawn for her own use. They were promptly produced. After being
                     entirely satisfied that he had them all in his possession, he remarked that
                     they were so beautiful, and so admirably executed, that he could not part with
                     them. At or about this time, the works at West Point had undergone great
                     improvement and repairs, under the superintendence of a French engineer. On
                     retiring from the presence of Miss Moncrieffe, Col. Burr exhibited to General
                     Putnam, and the other officers, who had paid no attention to the drawings, some
                     faint lines under the flowers which the lady had painted—that those lines, when
                     connected, was a complete draft of all the works, as recently improved, and
                     which she intended to bear off to the camp of the enemy. Her capture was
                     premeditated. Miss Moncrieffe was a regular spy in petticoats. She was sent
                     down to New York, and staid at head-quarters, at the corner of Broadway and the
                     Battery; but she was so close an observer of everything going on, that the
                     commanding general had to send her to her father, who was with the British
                     troops in New Jersey.
               
               
                  COL. BURR DENIES CLAIMING PROTECTION AS A BRITISH SUBJECT.
                  
                     "NEW YORK, 28th July, 1812.
                  
                  "SIR: When interrupted this morning, I was about to say to B——that when abroad
                     in whatever part of the World, I always defended and eulogized our political
                     and municipal institutions. It was often objected to me that I myself had been
                     a victim of Democratic rage. Is there any other Government in the World under
                     which only one man out of 5,000,000 can complain of oppression? If not, a
                     single instance proves nothing against the forms of Government. A reply which
                     is more suited to silence, though perhaps without convincing the objector.
                  "Another rumor which has been industriously circulated, may have appeared to
                     you more probable, to wit, that I had claimed protection as a British subject,
                     having had some difficulty with the Home Department, (then Lord Liverpool's)
                     about passports and permission to travel (which terminated in my imprisonment
                     and banishment).
                  "It was strongly recommended to me by a man of very high consideration,
                     enjoying an important place under Government, but hating personally Lord
                     Liverpool, to defend myself against his persecutions, by claiming my
                     birth-right as a British subject. It was presumed that I would cheerfully seize
                     this mode to disengage myself from thraldom, and to mortify and if I should
                     please, to punish Lord Liverpool.
                  "It became a topic of conversation, and many distinguished persons took a very
                     lively interest in the question. A very profound, and learned argument of 60
                     octavo pages, tracing the law from the time of William the Conqueror to the
                     then present day (1808) was drawn up for the occasion by one of
                     the ablest and most celebrated Lawyers in the British dominions, and put into
                     my hands. My rights were Demonstrated beyond a doubt. I refused to suffer
                        myself to be called a British subject, for a single day; for any purpose,
                        under any circumstances; nor did I at any moment swerve from this
                        determination."
                  The letter from which the above is extracted, was addressed to his tried and
                     intimate friend, Erie Bolman, Esq., of Philadelphia, and has been very
                     strangely overlooked by M. L. Davis, and Parton.
               
            
            
               
               APPENDIX II.
               
                  LETTERS OF COL. BURR TO "KATE."
                  
                     AND so my dear Kate has come a little nearer. I do think I shall call one of
                        these days and take a dish of tea with you, and be off again in half an
                        hour; in the meantime I want to be a little better acquainted with you and
                        the brats; tell me their ages and what they are like, and be a little more
                        communicative about your pretty self; have you grown fat or lean, or
                        neither? Est ce que tu es toujours belle? je veux
                           que ma nièce soit toujours belle; now if you dare grow ugly,
                        Lord, how I will hate you?
                     
                        21st, August, 1812.
                     
                  
                  
                     MY DEAR KATE: While I read your letter, I seem to hear the sound of that
                        soft voice which has so often charmed me. How I wish you were near me to
                        help me dispel this gloom that threatens to subdue my soul; indeed my dear
                        creature, I am fit for nothing.
                     Your offer of a refuge for a victim of despair, is kind and considerate, but
                        alas, I fear the subject of it will smile under the weight of his
                        afflictions.
                     Excuse me, my lovely friend; in a few days I will write you more.
                  
                  
                     
                        7th February, 1813.
                     
                     MY DEAR KATE: I have received your letter of yesterday, but not in season to
                        answer by return of mail.
                     Theodosia sailed from Georgetown, S. C., on the 30th, Dec., being
                        thirty-eight days ago, in the pilot boat schooner, the Patriot, Capt.
                        Soustocks; since that day nothing has been heard of her, nor of the vessel,
                        and I am filled with the most gloomy apprehensions; my hope is, that the
                        vessel may have been taken and carried into Bermuda, where, I have every
                        reason to believe, she would be treated with respect and hospitality; but
                        indeed I am wretched, and the utter impossibility of doing anything for her
                        relief or my own, makes me still more so. When or how this dreadful suspense
                        will terminate, God only knows.
                  
               
               
                  LETTER OF COL. BURR TO ELIZA.
                  Your little letter of the 16th, my dear Eliza, is full of consolation and
                     goodness, and now you are away, God knows where; Julia condescended to seek me;
                     she won't do at all; sense without refinement—passion without
                        sentiment—point de tact—the acquaintance
                     is dropped; my two most useful and most intimate friends are sexagénaires.
                  I have seen our little coz., Cora, a fine, plump, rosy-cheeked, black-eyed
                     girl, very pretty, and what the men would call desirable; plays and sings well,
                     and is graceful in her manner; plus anglaise que
                        française; she has neither money nor protection to undertake the
                     journey proposed, yet she would suit that market; Mille
                        choses à notre chère cousine.
                  
                  The last letter of Min distracts me, yet I augur some good from your visit, it
                     was very, very kind; alas! my sister, I find nothing here like you; the more I
                     compare you with the best I see (and I see the best) the more I
                     prize you; our brother writes me that your affairs have been neglected since
                     the absence of your friend; curse their hollow hearts and treacherous promises;
                     but persevere, and let me have the happiness to know that two dear friends are
                     happy.
                  
                     October the 4th.
                  
               
               
                  
                  LETTER FROM LEONORA TO AARON BURR.
                  In a postscript to Gov. Alston, the night before the duel with Gen. Hamilton,
                     Burr says: "If you can pardon and indulge a folly, I would suggest that
                     Madame——, too well known under the name of 'Leonora,' has claims on my
                     recollection. She is now with her husband at St. Jago, of Cuba."
                  The following letter is from "Leonora" to A. Burr, the orthography of which is
                     strictly adhered to:
                  
                     
                        CAPE FRANCOIS, HAYTI, May 6th, 1813.
                     
                     I have so much to relate of all that I have seen, heard, and done since my
                        arrival in this country, that I am at a loss where to begin, finding myself
                        in a world where the customs, language, dress & manners were so
                        different from that which I had left. I was at first dazzled &
                        bewildered, but on a nearer view I beheld the passing scene with a cooler
                        eye & I almost despis'd—not the climate, oh no, this charming climate
                        where smiling spring & laughing summer dance their eternal round. I
                        cannot describe the effect it has on me, the nights in particular,
                        love-inspiring nights!—but love was never known in this desolated country,
                        perhaps no one was ever so sensible of this truth as myself—but more of this
                        anon.
                     Almost a year has passed since I arrived here, during which time I have been
                        coop'd up in the hollow bason in which the town is built, for there is no
                        means of going a mile in any direction beyond it without I chose to make a
                        sortie on the brigands which I have not yet determined on—when I was on the
                        point of leaving the continent, do you recollect having told me, that order
                        would be established here in less than three weeks after my arrival—alas we
                        have beheld months after months passing away & we are still far from
                        that tranquility so much desired—when Toussaint was arrested it was suppos'd
                        the war was finish'd & it would have been had vigorous measures been
                        immediately pursued, but general le Clere was without energy—tormented by
                        jealousy for his wife, deceived by his officers, impos'd on by the black
                        chiefs with whom he was alway in conference, he saw himself on the point of
                        being made prisoner by the Negroes, & in the danger which his own
                        imprudence had occasion'd, incapable of forming any project of defence, he
                        only thought of saving himself by evacuating the place—this he was prevented
                        doing by the admiral la touche & the efforts of the garde national which
                        had been organiz'd but a few days before, repelled the Negroes & saved
                        the Cape—
                     the next day he gave a dinner to the officers of the garde national, made
                        them a long speech (they say he was eloquent) and then died of a fever two
                        or three days after. it was the best thing he could do, for if he had
                        continued alive he would have liv'd dishonor'd—
                     I was presented to his wife a few days before the attack she's small, with a
                        common, laughing face, that announces neither dignity, nor wit, and I who
                        have always thought that people in superior situations should be superior to
                        common people, was surpris'd to find nothing extraordinary in the sister of
                        Bonaparte—I gave her the Medal of Jefferson which I suppose will figure in
                        the collection of Medals at Paris—I saw her but once for she received nobody
                        living retired at a plantation on the mountain—that is she received no
                        ladies, foul mouth'd fame says she was far from cruel to Gen'l Boyer and all
                        the etat major,—however when her husband died, she cut off her hair (which
                        was very beautiful) to put in his coffin & play'd so well the part of a
                        disconsolate widow, that she made every body laugh—after having had him
                        embalm'd she embark'd with his lov'd remains for france, where she is (as I
                        suppose you know) arriv'd—
                     general Rochambau, who was then commandant at port au prince, was sent for
                        to take the command here, till a captain general should be nam'd,—he came,
                        and here commences the adventures of Clara—do you recollect her? that Clara
                        you once lov'd—She came to St domingo about the time I did, and at first liv'd tranquilly enough with her
                        husband—but you know she never lov'd him & he was jealous, and sometimes
                        render'd her miserable—but the general arriv'd and the scene was
                        chang'd—
                     Apropos of Clara, you would not know her, positively not, the climate has
                        had on her an effect quite miraculous, she has acquired a degree of
                        enbonpoint that renders her charming, she has grown fairer and her black
                        hair arrang'd a la greque gives her an air truly interesting her person even
                        in your land of beauty was found passable but here it is regarded as a model
                        of perfection—the general soon after his arrival gave a ball, Clara was
                        invited and went, but in the crowd she attracted general notice without
                        attracting the notice of the general—the week following the admiral la
                        touche gave a ball on board his Vessel, Clara was there & there began
                        her empire like that of Venus rising from the waves—the Ball was superb the
                        whole length of the vessel was levell'd with a false floor and cover'd with
                        a painted awning, ornamented with wreaths of natural flowers, with glasses
                        & with lights beyond number—the seats were enclosed by beautiful
                        palisades & the orchestra was plac'd in a gallery surrounding the main
                        mast—you must observe that the creole women have no taste for dress, they
                        cover themselves from head to foot, & the very few French women that are
                        here, have follow'd the army & know very little of taste or fashion—
                     here then was the Theatre on which Clara exhibited for the first time, where
                        she distanc'd all her rivals. Dressed with a licence which can be authoriz'd
                        only by the heat (for she was almost naked) she was led round the room by an
                        officer, where as a belle-femme and a stranger her vanity was fully
                        gratified by the buzzes of admiration, her husband delighted by the splendor
                        of what he deem'd his property follow'd her at a small distance, at length
                        she was seated, but rous'd from her contemplation of surrounding objects by
                        a flourish of music she turn'd her eyes to the door & saw the general
                        who enter'd at that moment, this moment was decisive, he caught her eye, and
                        saw for that night nothing but herself—when the first dance was finish'd,
                        which she did not join (she walk'd again) her husband following as before,
                        the general stopp'd him and ask'd who is that Lady—Madame———replied he—is
                        she not a stranger?—yes an american—she's a charming creature (continued the
                        general) but where's her husband? they say he's very jealous, and bien sot
                        (?)—Monsieur le viola (answer'd the husband) & the general was a little
                        disconcerted—as this conversation finish'd the walse began, he who has not
                        seen Clara walse, knows not half her charms—dance delightful but dance
                        dangerous from a woman fond of walsing, an adroit partner will gain all he
                        wishes—but while she display'd in the mazes of the dance all the voluptuous
                        graces of which her person is susceptible, her eye sought & fix'd that
                        of the general, he alone fill'd her imagination—before the desire of
                        securing that conquest, every other consideration faded, yet 'twas vanity
                        alone that led her to desire it—the general resembles in his person Dr.
                        Brown, rather shorter—and fat you know was always her aversion, but in this
                        country above all things, 'tis dreadful, he has a face agreeable enough, a
                        pretty laughing mouth, but nothing, nothing extraordinary, the
                        bitise he had made with her husband, render'd it difficult to approach her
                        & had a fatal influence on the sequel of their acquaintance, at the dawn
                        of day the ball broke up & the company return'd to their homes,—the
                        general had in his suite an officer who was formerly intimate with the
                        husband—the friendship was renew'd and the officer went to the house to
                        reconnoitre,—it is that Duquesne that was in America during the last war,
                        & as he says an ardent admirer of Miss Sally Shippen (now Mrs. Lee)—this
                        Duquesne informed Clara of what she knew as well as himself, that the
                        general was smitten, but he told her also something which she did not know,
                        among which was that a grand ball was preparing at which he was expected to
                        figure, she was invited, she went, and there large as is her portion of
                        vanity, it was amply gratified by seeing the general at her feet, and all
                        the women bursting with envy. The taste of the general influenc'd that of
                        the company, & all the men
                        offer'd their hommage at the same shrine, the eye of the husband saw what
                        pass'd—he saw & trembled, proud of possessing an object that excited
                        universal admiration, he trembled lest that object should be wrested from
                        him, he knew that the adoring general was a military despot, he knew also
                        that the heart of his wife had never been his, but it was now too late, he
                        had himself placed her on the scene, & it was not in his power to
                        withdraw her.
                     Suffer me again to repeat that she was guided by vanity alone, & that
                        not one feeling of her heart was interested, there was fifty young men in
                        the room, whose persons, whose manners, could have interested her highly,
                        some of them had almost show'd her tenderest favors, but 'twas
                        power, 'twas place she aim'd at, and had she not been thwarted, she would
                        have rul'd St. Domingue; at present she has sunk back to her original
                        nothingness, because she has a husband who would neither shut his eyes and
                        profit by her powers, nor open them and join her to secure & it this
                        husband she owes to you. To return—the acquaintance here formed, was
                        cultivated with indescribable ardor. Breakfasts, (which the french give
                        delightfully), parties, balls, concerts, all succeeded rapidly, & the
                        penchant of the chief was generally known; here admire the inconsistency of
                        the French character, those who before scarcely noticed Clara since her
                        marriage, now sought her with the utmost impressment, & those who pass'd
                        without saluting her, now that she was almost the declar'd mistress of the
                        general, show'd her the politest attention; the train of amusements was
                        interrupted by an insurrection in the southern part of the colony—the
                        general went to port-au-prince where he staid sometime, but at his return it
                        was again commenc'd; a ball was announc'd for the third day after his
                        arrival, where some interesting affairs were to be discuss'd; when lo! on
                        the morning of that third day the brigands attack'd the town in three
                        different directions, at three o'clock in the morning; they had taken the
                        advanc'd posts by surprise, kill'd the officers, their wives, and the
                        soldiers, and advanc'd upon the town; had they been wise enough to have done
                        this without firing (which they might have done) we had been all lost;
                        imagine our position—the cape is open on one side to the sea, the three
                        others are surrounded by high mountains; on the tops of these mountains the
                        negroes were encamp'd and all the country on the other side is in their
                        power; their plan of attack was good, but it was badly executed, for one of
                        the divisions advancing too precipitately spread the alarm; they were
                        repell'd with great slaughter; all the troops that march'd, as well garde
                        national as troops of the line, were order'd to remain on the frontiers; the
                        general did not go out; he sent word to Clara, whose husband had march'd, to
                        tell her not to be afraid, or if she was, to come to his house, & he'd
                        send her on board the admiral's vessel; this she dar'd not do, having
                        receiv'd orders from her husband, not to stir from the house; but towards
                        evening, after repeated messages from him, she determined to go & to
                        learn the fate of her husband, who had been all day, and still was, expos'd
                        to the fire of the enemy. She went, accompanied by her little friend, &
                        after a visit of half an hour, return'd; this was the only time he saw her
                        except in crowded assemblages, and in the presence of another he could say
                        very little; perhaps there was a piano, perhaps a library, but of this I am
                        not certain; perhaps, also, Clara can say with Mrs. Coughlan,*
                         if he is no better in the fields of Mars than in the groves of
                         Venus,——etc.
                     
                        
                        *
                           Née MONCRIEFFE.
                     
                     the ball was deferr'd till the next day, and the husband was to be kept at
                        his post till it was over; but the next day news arriv'd from a small island
                        near this place, call'd la tortue, that the negroes had pass'd an arm of the
                        sea that divides it from the main land, & kill'd all the Pick, amounting
                        to five thousand, and burn'd all the hospitals & plantations; this was
                        another hindrance to the ball, and the garde national was permitted to
                        descend; you know that the lives of any number of citizens is a very
                        trifling consideration when the commander-in-chief wishes to remove an
                        incommode husband, & on this occasion they were wantonly trifled with;
                           from this moment the structure
                        of Clara's good fortune was abolish'd; her husband had an infernal old
                        servant who told him as soon as he enter'd, that Madame had gone with a
                        servant of the general's to his house, accompanied by Mademoiselle, that the
                        same servant had often brought letters, which Madame had answered (this, by
                        the bye, was true); this, join'd to the fatigue he had been expos'd to
                        unnecessarily, and the jokes that the officers (who all suspected the
                        cause), pass'd on him, render'd him furious; he went to his wife's chamber,
                        told her that all her conduct was known to him, & demanded the letters
                        she had receiv'd; she denied having receiv'd them, and in short denied the
                        whole affair; enraged at being unable to draw anything from her, he lock'd
                        her up, and went to the general's house; he was receiv'd with great
                        cordiality; but without paying any attention to the general's civility, he
                        told him he had not come on a visit of friendship, but to reproach him with
                        having attempted to seduce his wife, and with having seiz'd the occasion of
                        the last attack, to expose to imminent danger him and the company he
                        commanded, in order to be more at liberty to gratify his desires; the
                        general, astonish'd, assur'd him that he was mistaken; but the husband
                        listen'd not, he told him that if he was any other than the general-in-chief
                        he'd have his life; it rests with you to forget that distinction and
                        consider me as your equal, was the reply; this, however, was impossible;
                        after having vented his wrath in a long speech, representing how abominable
                        it was for a person who should be the father of the colony, and the
                        protection of it's inhabitants, to seek to trouble the repose and destroy
                        the peace of family's, he went off; the officers in the antechamber heard
                        the altercation, and the story flew like wildfire through the town; the
                        husband return'd to the house and prepar'd to embark his wife for
                        Philadelphia; passeports were granted as a great favor for Clara and her
                        suite, but the husband was not suffer'd to go; this leads to another
                        observation; when the attachment was first suspected, the husband had
                        arrang'd his affairs to go to Charleston; this did not please Clara; she
                        inform'd the general, and an order was immediately ately issued that no
                        officer of the garde national could leave his post during four months; &
                        thus you see she had still some influence in public affairs; but the season
                        was so bad at the time the eclat was made, that every body persuaded him not
                        to send her, & the vessel on which she was to have embark'd, perish'd
                        almost in view of the cape.
                     shortly after another ball was announced; the gen'ral sent Duquesne to the
                        husband of Clara, begging him to accompany him to it, saying it was the only
                        way to stop the storys that were in circulation; but the husband return'd
                        the billet of invitation, requesting that another might never be sent; the
                        ball had been, and such was the effect of Clara's adventure, that in those
                        rooms which on similar occasions were crowded to suffocation, there was that
                        night but fourteen ladies.
                     to account for this, you must be told that the inhabitants of this Island,
                        that is, the creoles, regard the french army with more horror than the
                        revolted Negroes, & with great reason. They are oppress'd beyond
                        measure, and see daily the wreck of their fortunes torn from them by those
                        who come to restore their property. The citizens are expos'd on every
                        occasion to the fire of the enemy, while the troops of the line rest quietly
                        in their forts. The people of france regard st. domingo as their peru, and
                        each individual that embarks for it becomes fully determined to make his
                        fortune at all events, & thus the war has been & will be continued
                        for an indefinite time. They were irritated by these and many other
                        vexations, of which they dar'd not complain; but a grief of a new kind was
                        that of troubling a menage, not that
                        fidelity was ever known or thought of here; but it was a novelty to see a
                        husband concern himself about such an affair, & it was at least as great
                        a one to see a simple individual propose a challenge to a general-in-chief.
                        Every body expected to see the rash mortal imprisoned, embarked for france,
                        or perhaps hanged; but as the general suffered it to pass, every one join'd
                        the cry, & the people were astonished to find one of their commonest
                        customs made a wonder of. One consideration which, perhaps, had great weight
                        with the general, was his having
                        written very often and very explicitly to Clara. The letters had been
                        destroyed; but the husband said he had them.
                     the general lost much of his popularity, and went shortly after to fix his
                        government at port-au-prince, & thus ends the adventure of Clara, who,
                        though she was disappointed in her ambitious aims, has been made so much the
                        object of public attention, that she never appears without fixing every
                        regard; for myself, I live retir'd applying, with unceasing attention, to
                        learn french, & as a proof of my progress, I send you a page written in
                        that language.
                     Miss Sansay is so near being married that—to-day is Wednesday—and on
                        Saturday the ceremony will be performed. Since our arrival here, her
                        temperament has declared itself, etc., etc. on that subject, one day or
                        other, I intend exciting your regret. should the story of Clara, with many
                        incidents which I have omitted, and some observations on all that is passing
                        here, be written in a pretty light style, could it be printed in America in
                        a tolerable pamphlet in french and english, & a few numbers sent here?
                        If it could I should be delighted, & know one who would undertake to
                        write it. Answer me. I think this long letter deserves an answer. There's
                        certainly matter enough in it to form a romance; but whose life has afforded
                        so many subjects for romance as that of its writer? I hear sometimes
                        indistinct accounts of the United States, but nothing satisfactory. Have you
                        seen many Swiss emigrants? Have you raised an army to hinder the french
                        taking possession of Louisiana? All this I might learn from the papers, but
                        I don't get them. Adieu. Remember, write to me. Apropos—the lady who takes
                        charge of this paquet is driven from this country by fear—in the last attack
                        she made a vow to the blessed Virgin to throw herself into the sea if the
                        brigands entered the town, so great was her fear that her person should be
                        exposed to their lascivious desires. This was a rash vow, considering she is
                        only sixty four years old—there's nothing so diverting as the pretensions of
                        the old women here. One of seventy has vowed to wear neither rouge nor lace,
                        nor trinkets till the revolution is finished; giving for reason that
                        ornaments are useless when the people don't enjoy the blessings of
                        tranquillity, and that, perhaps, she might be deranged in the midst of her
                        toilette by a hostile incursion. Do tell me if I write frenchified english,
                        I dread that, of all things; it has so much the air of affectation, which I
                        always abhorr'd. Couldn't answer the letter addressed to my Mentor—he might
                        find himself indisposed to write, or for some other reason. I should prefer
                        it infinitely.
                     
                        Adieu, je vous embrasse.
                        LEONORA.
                     
                  
               
            
            THE END.
         
         
            
            BEULAH.
            
               
                  "Miss Evens may well be called the Charlotte Bronte of America."
               
               —Troy Whig.
            
            
               
                  "We place 'BEULAH' beside 'John Halifax.'"
               
               —Baltimore Advocate.
            
            BY AUGUSTA J. EVANS.
            One neat 12mo. Price $1 25.
            From MARION HARLAND, herself, the writer of the most popular series of Novels ever
               published in this country.
            "To MESSRS. DERBY & JACKSON: "I speak my honest sentiments when I pronounce
               'Beulah' the best work of fiction ever published by a Southern writer. To my mind, no
               American authoress has ever produced a greater book. Can it be true that Miss Evans
               is young? There is a life-time of thought and research, of struggles of mind and
               heart, in 'Beulah.' I have read every word with intense interest. The
               character-painting is fine, the description of passing events and scenery graphic and
               striking; but to me the chief charm of the book lies in the vivid portraiture of the
               doubts, the conflicts, the yearnings and the final triumph of a great soul seeking
               for truth. If the public can appreciate a thoroughly good work, they will thank you
               for having given them 'Beulah.'"
            From Rev. W. H. Milburn (the Blind Preacher Eloquent). "I have no hesitation in
               saying that few books have ever interested me more. The plot, the delineation of
               character, and the action, I think, are all admirable. It would be an extraordinary
               work from the hand of any woman, but it is peculiarly so from one so young. The
               reading of it cannot but do great good."
            From Frederic S. Cozzens, author of the "Sparrowgrass Papers." "I have been greatly
               interested by this story of the Mobile heroine, and I am convinced that the story
               will produce a sympathetic impression on the public mind. There is not a word in it,
               nor a phrase in it, that I have not meted and measured. Over and above the method of
               telling the story, the story itself wins, commands, controls the 
                  sympaties
                  sympathies
                of the reader. This, I take it, is the highest test of excellence."
            From the Home Journal. "Since the appearance of 'Jane Eyre,' no volume has fallen
               from the pen of a lady writer evincing more power and learning than the novel
               'Beulah,' and we do not hesitate to say that in the production of this volume, Miss
               Evans has achieved the highest rank among novelists of her sex in this country."
            From the New York Evening Post. "She has, at any rate, established a rank among the
               best novelists of her sex whom our country can boast, and we do not remember any work
               of fiction which has been produced in this country for years, which is written with
               more power and is more full of promise than 'Beulah.' She has achieved a decided
               literary success, a success which will at least be as cordially recognized at the
               North as at the South."
            From the Boston Post. "'Beulah' is a book of great merit, and one which will bear
               critical and close inspection. The volume is one deserving the attraction of the
               reading public. It is healthy in sentiment, pure in its influences, and grand
                  in its treatment of great moral questions. As a literary work, 'Beulah'
               will rank with any issue of the lay."
            The above will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price.
            W. H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, 43 & 45 Centre St., N. Y
         
         
            
            BOOKS WRITTEN BY A. S. ROE.
            THERE is no writer of the present day who excels this charming author in the natural
               and home-like simplicity of his style, and the natural interest and truthfulness of
               his narrative. In thousands of families and Sabbath Schools his books are read and
               re-read with ever-increasing delight. The young and old, the quiet and gay, are alike
               fascinated by his pages. Rival editions of all his books have been published in
               England, edited by the Rev. Dr. TAYLOR, where they have already reached the enormous
               sale of 120,000 volumes—a sure indication that his pen is one whose "touch of nature
               makes the whole world kin."
            
               IV'E BEEN THINKING; or, The Secret of Success. 12mo., clo., $1 00
               TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED; or, Strive and Win. 12mo., clo., $1 25
               A LONG LOOK AHEAD; or, The First Stroke and the Last. 12mo., clo., $1 25
               THE STAR AND THE CLOUD; or, A Daughter's Love. 12mo., clo., $1 25
               TRUE TO THE LAST; or, Alone, on a Wide Wide Sea. 12mo., clo., $1 25
               HOW COULD HE HELP IT? or The Heart Triumphant. 12mo., clo., $1 25
            
            From the London Critic. "Mr. Roe is one of the most successful of American writers.
               He has originality of thought, and natural powers of invention."
            From the New York Christian Intelligencer. "Mr. Roe evidently knows how to touch the
               heart-strings; indeed, he sweeps them with a master's hand. At one time we find it
               impossible to restrain a gushing tear; at another every risible nerve is in full
               exercise."
            From the United States Magazine. "Hogarth not more surely touches life with his
               wizard spell. It is transfixed and permanent. 'A Long Look Ahead' is the
               crystallization of his genius, and, like Goldsmith's 'Vicar of Wakefield,' should be
               placed upon the shelf to show what American views and manners reveal, just as that
               simple tale tells of what comes from English institutions. He is an American truly
               and heartily: American in thought and feeling, American in tone and language. His
               books will live as graphic pictures of the times he delineates. Rather of the old
               school in Church and social privileges, he is sufficiently universal to make his
               delineation national. There is about him a complacency, a wholesome cheerfulness, a
               fertility of resource, a hopefulness, a glow and persistency wholly Yankee."
            The above will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price.
         
         
            THE STANDARD FEMALE NOVELISTS.
            THE WORKS OF JANE AUSTEN, Comprising "Pride and Prejudice," "Sense and Sensibility,"
               "Mansfield Park," "Northanger Abbey," "Emma," and "Persuasion." First American
               edition. With steel vignettes. Complete in 4 vols., 12mo. 
                  Price in Cloth, $4 00;
                  Sheep, library style, $5 00;
                  Half calf, extra or antique, $8 00.
               
            
            THE WORKS OF HANNAH MORE, Comprising "Cœlebs in Search of a Wife," and her Tales and
               Allegories complete. With portrait on steel. 2 vols., 12mo. 
                  Price, in Cloth, $2 00;
                  Sheep, library style, $2 50;
                  Half calf, extra or antique, $4 00.
               
            
            THE WORKS OF JANE PORTER, Comprising "The Scottish Chiefs," and "Thaddeus of Warsaw."
               With steel portrait. 2 vols., 12mo. 
                  Price in Cloth, $2 00;
                  Sheep, library style, $2 50;
                  Half calf, extra or antique, $4 00.
               
            
            THE WORKS OF ANNE RADCLIFFE, Comprising "The Mysteries of Eudolpho," and "Romance of
               the Forest." With steel portrait. 2 vols., 12mo. 
                  Price in cloth, $2 00;
                  Sheep, library style, $2 50;
                  Half calf, extra or antique, $4 00.
               
            
            THE WORKS OF CHARLOTTE BRONTE (CURRER BELL), Comprising "Jane Eyre," "Shirley," and
               "Villette." Complete in 3 vols., 12mo. 
                  Price in cloth, $3 00;
                  Sheep, library style, $3 75;
                  Half calf, extra or antique, $6 00.
               
            
            EVELINA; or, The History of a Young Lady's Introduction to the World. By FRANCES
               BURNEY (Mme. d'Arblay). With a life of the Author by T. B. Macaulay. 12mo. 
                  Price in cloth, $1 00;
                  Sheep, library style, $1 25;
                  Half calf, extra or antique, $2 00.
               
            
            CORINNE; or, Italy. By MADAME DE STAEL. Translated by Isabel Hill, with Metrical
               Versions of the Odes by L. E. Landon 12mo. 
                  Price in Cloth, $1 00;
                  Sheep, library style, $1 25;
                  Half calf, extra or antique, $2 00.
               
            
            The above will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price
            W. H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, 44 & 45 Centre St., N.
         
         
            
            DERBY & JACKSON'S STANDARD BRITISH CLASSICS.
            IN FIFTY VOLUMES, COMPRISING:
            
               BOSWELL'S JOHNSON, Four Volumes.
               ADDISON'S WORKS, Six Volumes.
               GOLDSMITH'S WORKS, Four Volumes.
               FIELDING'S WORKS, Four Volumes.
               SMOLLETT'S WORKS, Six Volumes.
               STERNE'S WORKS, Two Volumes.
               DEAN SWIFT'S WORKS, Six Volumes.
               JOHNSON'S WORKS, Two Volumes.
               DEFOE'S WORKS, Two Volumes
               LAMB'S WORKS, Five Volumes
               HAZLITT'S WORKS, Five Volumes
               LEIGH HUNT'S WORKS, Four Volumes.
            
            Pronounced the most valuable and handsome set of books ever introduced into the
               American market. Put up in two elegant cases, bound in half calf antique, or half
               calf gilt. Price $2 25 per volume, or, per set, $112 50.
            We also have the same works, bound in neat cloth, for $1 25 per volume; or sheep,
               library style for $1 50 per vol.
            Either or all of the above will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price.
            W H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper 48 & 45 Centre St., N. Y.
         
         
            THE AMERICAN GENTLEMAN'S GUIDE TO POLITENESS AND FASHION;
            OR, FAMILIAR LETTERS TO HIS NEPHEWS, CONTAINING RULES OF
               ETIQUETTE, DIRECTIONS FOR THE FORMATION OF CHARACTER, ETC. ETC.,
            ILLUSTRATED BY SKETCHES DRAWN FROM LIFE, OF THE MEN AND MANNERS OF OUR
               TIMES.
            BY HENRY LUNETTES.
            One neat 12mo. Price $1 25.
            
               CONTENTS
               DRESS.—Fashion—Taste in Dress—Example of Byron—Dr. Johnson and the Siddons—Horace
                  Greeley—Example of Washington—Selections of Colors—Morning Costume—Ceremonious
                  Costume—Mode of Wearing the Hair and Beard—Collars—Use of Diamonds in Dress—True
                  Refinement—Test of High Breeding—Wearing Gloves in Dancing—Street and Morning
                  Visits—The Mill-Boy of the Slashes—Anecdotes Illustrative of Dress—The Hero of the
                  Ball-Room—The Fashionable Hat—Travelling Gloves of an Exquisite—Gov. Marcy and the
                  Parisians—Distinctive Mark of a Gentleman—Details of Gentleman's Dress—Wedding
                  Costume—Morning and Evening Dress—Costume for Bachelors—Effect of Black
                  Dress—Blue—Brown.
               MANNERS.—Manner Indicative of Character—The Fashionable Manner—Good Breeding—The
                  St. Nicholas Hotel—"Willard's," at Washington—Manner to Parents—Brothers and
                  Sisters—To a Wife—The Sensibility of Woman—Domestic Politeness—Proper Mode of
                  Salutation—Rule, when meeting a Gentleman walking with Ladies—Shaking hands with
                  Ladies—Courteous Phrases—Parting Ceremonies—Walking with Ladies—Staring at
                  Ladies—Ceremonious Visits—Character of Conversation—Card of
                  Announcement—Drawing-Room Rules—Visitors taking leave—Offering the Arm—Wedding
                  Receptions—Leaving Cards—Visits on New Year's Day—Attending Ladies at
                  Concerts—Manner at a Public Table—Driving with Ladies Introduction of Guests.
               THE TOILET.—The True Basis of Health—The Bath—The Hair—The Teeth—The Nails—A
                  Complete Wardrobe—Riding and Driving—Simple Tastes in Eating—Use of Wine,
                  etc.—Amusements in the open Air—Fashionable Watering Places.
               LETTER-WRITING.—Variety of Styles—A good Business-hand—Letters of
                  Introduction—Letter to a Lady of Fashion—Introducing Men to Women—Evening
                  Parties—Letters of Recommendation—Proper Style of Letters of Condolence,
                  etc.—Notes of Invitation—Letter-Superscription.
               ACCOMPLISHMENTS.—Taste for Music—Advantage of Dancing, Riding and Driving—The Art
                  of Conversation—Use of Slang Phrases—Conversational Topics—Courtesy to Ladies and
                  Clergyman—Quickness at Repartee.
               HABIT.—Fashion not always Good-Breeding—The Tie of a Cravat—Walking, Standing,
                  Sitting—Ease of Attitude—The Art of Carving—Helping Ladies at Table—Ladies Careful
                  Observers—Proper Attitude while Reading—Habits of Good-Humor, etc.
               MENTAL AND MORAL EDUCATION.—Definition of Self-Culture—Reading for
                  Amusement—Fictitious Literature—Knowledge under Difficulties—Learned
                  Blacksmith—Franklin and Webster—Choice of Companions and Friends—Selection of a
                  Pursuit in Life—Courtship—Marriage—Housekeeping—Pecuniary Matters—Value of
                  Friendship—The Merchant Princes—The Pursuit of Wealth—Advantages of Early
                  Marriage—Friendship with a Married Lady—Presents—Pernicious Effects of Boarding—An
                  Old Man's Advice—Cupid turned Carrier—A True Woman's Letter—Uncle Hal's
                  Farewell.
               The above will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price
               W. H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, 43 & 45 Centre St., N. Y.
            
         
         
            
            BOOKS PUBLISHED BY DERBY & JACKSON.
            
               
                  DODDRIDGE'S RISE AND PROGRESS. 12mo., $1 00
               
                  BAXTER'S SAINTS' REST. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  TAYLOR'S HOLY LIVING. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. By JOHN BUNYAN. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  THE SCOTTISH CHIEFS. By JANE PORTER. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  THADDEUS OF WARSAW. Do. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  CHILDREN OF THE ABBEY. By Mrs. ROCHE. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  GIL BLAS. By LE SAGE. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  DON QUIXOTE. By CERVANTES. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  HOLY WAR. By JOHN BUNYAN. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  GULLIVER'S TRAVELS. By DEAN SWIFT. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  ROMANCE OF THE FOREST. By A. RADCLIFFE. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  MYSTERIES OF UDOLPHO. By A. RADCLIFFE. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  TRISTRAM SHANDY. By LAURENCE STERNE. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  CŒLEBS IN SEARCH OF A WIFE. By MOORE. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  TOM JONES. By FIELDING. (Complete in one vol.) 12mo., 1 00
               
                  AMELIA. By FIELDING. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  RODERICK RANDOM. By SMOLLETT. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  HUMPHREY CLINKER. Do. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  SANFORD AND MERTON. By DAY. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  ÆSOP'S FABLES. 12mo., Illustrated, 1 00
               
                  LA FONTAINE'S FABLES. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  CORINNE. By MADAME DE STAEL. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  EVELINA. By MISS BURNEY. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  RELIGIOUS COURTSHIP. By DE FOE. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  GOLDSMITH'S VICAR OF WAKEFIELD. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  PAUL AND VIRGINIA. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  STERNE'S SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  SWIFT'S TALE OF A TUB, AND ESSAYS. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  HANNAH MORE'S TALES AND ALLEGORIES. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  ESSAYS OF ELIA. By CHARLES LAMB. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  THE LETTERS OF JUNIUS. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  FOX'S BOOK OF MARTYRS. Illustrated. 12mo., cloth, 1 00
               
                  PICTORIAL HISTORY OF ENGLAND. 12mo., cloth, 1 00
               
                  REMARKABLE CONVERSIONS AND REVIVAL INCIDENTS. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  THE COTTAGE ON THE CLIFF. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  MYSTERIOUS MARRIAGE. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  THE FISHERMAN'S DAUGHTER. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  SIMMS' LIFE OF GENERAL GREENE. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  HEADLEY'S LIFE OF NAPOLEON. 12mo., 1 25
               
                  LIVES OF EMINENT MECHANICS. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  LIFE OF GENERAL ANDREW JACKSON. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  LIFE OF JAMES BUCHANAN. 12mo., 1 00
               
                  WIRT'S LIFE OF PATRICK HENRY. 12mo., 1 25
               
                  THOMAS' ADVENTURES IN WESTERN AFRICA. 12mo., 1 25
               
                  DITSON'S ADVENTURES IN NORTHERN AFRICA, 1 00
               
                  WOMAN'S AFFECTION; or, Winnie and I, 1 00
               
                  LIVES OF GENERALS LEE AND SUMPTER. 12mo., 1 00
            
         
      
   
