
    ----CITATION----
        Appell, Theron B.. Belshazzar, or, The Fall of Babylon .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5585
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               BELSHAZZAR; 
               OR THE FALL OF BABYLON. 
               A TALE OF THE ORIENT. 
             
            BY THERON B. APPELL.
             
            
               NEW HAVEN. 
               TUTTLE, MOREHOUSE & TAYLOR, PRINTERS
             
            1861. 
          
       
      
         
            Belshazzar, or, The fall of Babylon 
             
             
            BELSHAZZAR; OR THE FALL OF BABYLON. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               READER, let your imagination wander back to that period of time, when Babylon the Great, then Queen of the earth, reigned over the Eastern world, the most beautiful and powerful city of the Orient. Its mighty walls spanned the Euphrates, and encompassed within their limits an area fifteen miles square. But, 'tis useless for me to describe its hundred gates of brass, its hundreds of squares and towers, its statues and palaces, its hanging gardens laden with rich fruit and filling the air with the fragrance of their blossoming flowers. The terraces that overhung, and the splendid barges that floated upon the waters of the Euphrates, as it meandered through the city,-these are familiar to every reader of history. 'Tis enough that there were fit scenes for the enactment of those deeds which romancers love to chronicle, and but few of which have been handed down to us by history. Not but that they may have been duly chronicled, but the ravages that Old Father Time and the hands of barbaric conquerors have made upon them, leave but little for our inspection. Therefore bear with me, Reader, if my description of men and events is not so minute in tales of life portrayed at the present time. 
               At the time we write of, Belshazzar sat on the throne of Babylon, while the armies of the Medes and Persians, under king Cyrus, lay encamped before the city; but the haughty Belshazzar laughed at their 
                     beseiging
                     besieging
                  , as he well knew the enemy might beat in vain against his massive walls; and secure in their position, the Babylonians looked down from their towers in contempt upon the foe beneath, expecting that the Persian would soon depart, when he found all 
                     beseiging
                     besieging
                   useless. Therefore they heeded the enemy but little, and spent their time as usual, in feasting and revelry. 
               On a clear night, when the moon was on the wane, and threw a partial, uncertain light on surrounding objects, a single boatman was plying his oars vigorously as he glided in a little skiff o'er the waters the Euphrates, in the northern part of the city. While he bent to his task with all his power, he scanned the shores with an anxious glance, as if seeking a place where he might land in safety,-for, rapidly idly following his course, was a large craft, well manned and bearing half a dozen armed warriors. 
               The boatman was a youth just verging into manhood; of a light, compact form, with features not 
                     handsame
                     handsome
                   but bold and regular; glossy raven looks curled about his brow and hung in clusters to his shoulders; but the prominent trait in his features, which would instantly attract attention, was an eye, large, deep set, of the blackest hue, and which seemed luminous as it flashed with excited glance from shore to shore, and then upon his pursuers. He saw no avenue of escape upon the shore, for terraces and garden walls lined the banks, and, despite his efforts, the pursuing craft now rapidly approached. 
               The soldiers clustered around its prow, and one arrayed in richer costume, who seemed commander, shouted to him to surrender. 
               "Never!" was the clear reply. 
               "Villain! dog of a spy! we know you! Surrender instantly or you shall die; we'll toss your carcass into the waters." 
               "Then come and slay me. Surrender I never shall." 
               "Run him down! sink his craft!" shouted the enraged chieftain; "we'll drown him without a blow." 
               The youth had ceased rowing, and grasping one of his oars, stood up in the skiff. As the heavy barge came rushing on, he gave it a push, thus gliding his skiff from beneath its prow; then, with a sweeping stroke he brought the oar down on the head of a soldier, who fell with a dull plash, and instantly sank. The bargemen soon bore down on him again, and he made a feint with his oar again to push off, but changed the motion too quick for parrying, and dealt the chieftain a stunning blow, felling him on the barge. Jumping from his sinking skiff on board the barge, he seized the sword of the fallen chief, determined to sell his life dearly. The contest was too unequal for prowess to withstand. He wielded his sword with desperation, slaying another of the soldiers, and wounding several, when he received a thrust of a spear in his shoulder; throwing him overboard bleeding and senseless. He immediately sank, and the bargemen, anxious to procure aid for their fallen comrades, plied their oars and instantly glided from the spot. 
               On the right bank of the Euphrates, close by where this scene was being enacted, stood a small house of hewn stone. The waters washed its foundation walls, and from its portico stone steps descended to the water's edge. Its dweller was Johanan, one of the sons of Israel who were fulfilling their destiny by sojourning in Babylon. Possessing that aquiline cast of features characteristic of the race, he was tall, athletic and being but little over forty years of age, was yet in the prime of life. His ostensible calling was the fisherman's, and daily he brought to the markets a small supply of the finny inhabitants of the Euphrates. Yet could one have seen all the contents of his dwelling, and witnessed all his transactions, the humble fisherman would have been found a dealer in precious stones, and by no means an unwealthy one. 
               On the night in question, though the evening was far advanced, Johanan was sitting in his portico, enjoying the cool breezes that were gently wafted over the waters, and dreamily gazing at the lights that flickered on the opposite shore, when his attention was arrested by angry voices on the waters below. Gazing forth, by the partial light of the moon he beheld the conflict between the youth and his pursuers. Although not prone to interfere where his aid would be almost useless, and he would also incur the vengeance of officials, yet he resolved to aid the lone combatant if 'twas in his power; and jumping into his skiff, which was moored beside the steps, scarce had the barge turned away, when with quick strokes he rowed to the spot where he saw the youth sink. Scarce had he started, when he saw his body rise and disappear again, and as he neared the spot, he saw it rise the second time. Knowing that the third would be fatal, he plunged in and seized it ere it could sink. Supporting the body with one hand, he swam, with a few strokes of the other, to the skiff, and clambered in with his burden. 
               He found the youth nearly strangled with water, but soon freeing his lungs his breath was restored; but he remained senseless, and bleeding freely from the wound in his shoulder. Turning his skiff to the shore, he soon bore his burden up the steps into his dwelling, and called loudly for Miriam. In a few moments a Jewess appeared, hastily appareled in a loose robe. 
               But we must halt a moment to describe her. Like her father, tall and stately, possessing a finely rounded form,-her every motion was grace; her features, like those of most of the Israelitish women, were fair; brow of pearl, cheeks of rosy tint; small, finely turned lips,-eyes large, dreamy, and black as the raven's wing. 
               "Father, what want you? Ha! whom have, you here? Dead! No, but he is bleeding. What means this?" 
               "Quick, daughter; bring me lint and bandages. We must staunch this bleeding or the youth will surely die! Be quick! move as if your life were at stake and not his, and then I will tell you." 
               Miriam needed no second prompting. From her stores of linen, bandages were soon prepared. Her father meanwhile stripped the garments from the youth's shoulder, and with the aid of her nimble fingers, the wound was soon staunched and securely bandaged. 
               While they were thus engaged, Johanan related the manner of his rescuing the youth, saying, "I know not who he is or what he may be; but I am ready to protect whoever is pursued by our oppressors,-may curses light on them,-Belshazzar and all his myrmidons. They trample our rights and desecrate our God. 'Tis enough that he has incurred their vengeance. We will care for him, and when he recovers we may learn his tale. But where shall we place him? He must have dry clothing and a warm couch." 
               Miriam's eyes had dwelt on the young stranger's features with a searching expression, while her father was speaking, and their pale beauty, or his suffering condition, awakened new and strange emotions in her heart, as she gazed. 
               "I will yield my apartment to him, father. I can prepare me another chamber, and we can place him there immediately." 
               "'Tis well," said he, and taking the youth in his powerful arms, he bore him gently to her chamber, and placed him on a couch. "Now, Miriam," said he, "bring me a pitcher of water and a flask of wine, and I will watch with him during the night, while you must seek some rest, for you must tend his wants on the morrow. 'Tis lucky we have no servants in our household, to babble of secrets. Perchance he may be some noted one whom 'twill be dangerous for us to harbor; but none shall be the wiser. So now, daughter, to your rest, while I watch." 
               Miriam retired to her slumbers, but they were broken by strange dreams, flitting through which were ever seen the pale manly features of the wounded stranger. 
               One more scene must we record, and then we are done with the night's adventures. While the youth, whom we will call Hassan, was plying his oars in the endeavor to escape his pursuers, a man might have been seen hurrying along the street that followed the water's edge, keeping pace with the boats, occasionally pausing when an opening between the houses would permit, to watch their course. He was tall, strongly built, of bold yet pleasing features, and from his garb, evidently of the Chaldean race; for his robe betokened him to be one of those learned men-astrologers and magicians-who made Babylon their abode at that period. Modas, for such was his name, was one of many of his race who were retained in service of Belshazzar's court; their only duties being to be in readiness when summoned to divine future events of interest to the national welfare, or the private fortunes of the courtiers, by the positions and motions of the heavenly bodies; and to explain dreams and other events that excited either awe or curiosity. 
               When Hassan came in conflict with the soldiers on the barge, Modas glided between two buildings, and stepping with quiet tread on to the portico of one, watched the contest with manifest interest. When Hassan sank, and the barge turned away, he was on the point of departing in a moody manner, when he beheld a boat dart from the steps of a house. He watched Johanan's course anxiously, and when he beheld him bearing Hassan into his dwelling, uttered a sigh of relief; then turning into the street he surveyed the dwelling of Johanan carefully as if to mark its identity, and then walked rapidly away toward the northern part of the city, following the river's course. When he had neared the walls, he entered a little dwelling by the river side, and ere long emerged dressed in a close-fitting garb, different from the usual citizen's dress, and accompanied by a boy. They entered a little skiff that was moored close by, and then rowed away to where the mighty walls spanned the river. From the arched masonry a massive framework of iron hung beneath the water's edge, thus preventing all egress and ingress of boats. Nearing the bank, Modas plunged into the water, and diving deeply, in a moment rose beyond the iron-work, and swam quietly ashore. Having landed, he walked briskly away, seeming heedless of molestation by the parties of Persians who patroled around their camp, the lights of which could be seen in the distance. 
               Meanwhile the boy returned with the boat, and no sentry of the hundred gates of Babylon was wiser for the magician's departure. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               When Hassan awoke the next morning, he was bewildered. He had a recollection of his combat on the 
                     Euphrades
                     Euphrates
                  , and his ears yet rang with the boiling of the waters when he sank; beyond this all was blank. Glancing around the apartment, everything he beheld was neat and tasteful; silken curtains, neatly embroidered, hung over his couch. Various paintings adorned the walls; the furniture, though heavy, was fancifully carved, and a vase of sweet scented flowers stood near his couch. Vainly endeavoring to divine where he was or how he came there, he attempted to rise, but instantly fell back again in agony, and found by the pain and bandages that he was severely wounded. 
               As he thus lay he heard light steps approaching, and partially closed his eyes resolving to feign sleep and observe in what care he was. Glancing through his partially closed eyelids, he was surprised to see a maiden surpassingly beautiful, enter and after glancing at him a moment, place some refreshments on a table beside him; open the lattice, 
                     admiting
                     admitting
                   fresh air; arrange the curtains with noiseless motions, and then she came and placed her hands gently on his brow as if to see whether his blood was fevered. 
               As she was turning away he slowly opened his eyes and gazing on her with evident admiration, said, 
               "Stay, beautiful one, tell me where am I and how came I here." 
               "You are with those who will care well for you; but you must not divulge your presence else we may be involved in trouble." 
               "I know, I see your meaning. But fear nothing. I am no serpent. So tell me where am I?" 
               "You are in the house of Johanan, beside the river's bank." 
               "Johanan! Ye are of the children of Israel then?" 
               "Aye." 
               "But how came I here?" 
               "My father rescued you from the waters when drowning, last night, and brought you hither." 
               "May the God of his race reward him for it; he shall surely be repaid by me." 
               "He needs no reward; but you must not become agitated by conversation. Partake of some refreshment, and then I will send my father to you and he will relate all you wish to know." She placed the refreshments where he could easily reach with his unwounded arm, and retired. 
               Hassan gazed after her as she departed, and remained staring as if in a trance, till the sound of her footsteps had died away. Then blessing the fates that he had fallen into such hands, broke his fast with a light heart, and merry as one well could be, wounded and lying in the care of strangers. 
                
               Ere long his host entered and related to him the manner of his rescue. 
               "Many thanks to you for your timely assistance. I feared not death; but I have much yet to live for and perform. You shall not go unrewarded for interfering in my behalf." 
               "Speak not of reward. I should scorn it for saving the life of a fellow being, especially from the hands of an oppressor." 
               "Ha! what say you of oppressors?" 
               "Did I say aught? I spoke vaguely. Methinks you were being slain by some of the royal troops. How did you incur their vengeance? If you were guiltless, were they not oppressors?" 
               "Ha! I understand you; your race have little to thank Belshazzar for. And you would learn my tale?" 
               "Aye, you speak rightly in both senses." 
               Hassan seemed to hesitate a moment, then said; "I am wealthy and have no near relatives. So I live quietly by myself with a few faithful servants in the center of the city, and wile away my time in seeking such adventures as chance may throw in my way. Of late, while aiding a friend in a little intrigue, I became involved in a broil with an officer of the royal guards and wounded him in single combat. Since then he has been dogging my footsteps, full of vengeance. Last night he with some of his comrades fell upon me in a by-street near the river. I escaped their attack and rushing to the river-side found a skiff, and jumping in rowed away. But the fates were against me; they hailed a barge that was passing and were soon in hot pursuit. The rest you know." 
               "Your tale seems, plain." 
               "Aye, 'tis no strange matter to be knocked over and drowned these times. But you spoke of oppressors; fear not to express your opinion in my presence, but be cheered. I tell you Babylon will change masters ere long." 
               "Heaven grant it may, but how, I cannot see." 
               "Does not the Persian lie encamped before us? Think you Cyrus would prove a worse monarch than Belshazzar?" 
               "Nay, but it cannot be; the Persian can never scale these mighty walls, and his army will march away after having threatened and muttered like the fleeting clouds of a summer shower." 
               "Your comparison is good. But I tell you the storm will gather its fury and burst over Babylon, and the blood of our reveling oppressors flow like water." 
               "I care not if it do; but I fear 'twill not come to pass." So saying, Johanan departed. 
               Scarce had he descended, when some one knocked for admission at his door; answering his summons, he found none other waiting for entrance, than our friend Modas, the Chaldean. 
               When he had entered and become seated, Johanan looked enquiringly at him, as if to learn his business. 
               Modas returned his gaze saying, "you have a youth named Hassan concealed here. I would speak with him." 
               Johanan's brow contracted for a moment, then staring coolly at his visitor he said, "I know naught of missing youth or concealment; if this is all for which I am honored by your visit you may as well depart again, for I have no time to waste in idle discussion." 
               Modas smiled; "I thank you for your course and 'tis well done. Now listen; I am both the servant and guardian of the youth you last night rescued from his enemies on the river. I witnessed the whole, so you have nothing to fear, but many thanks to receive; now lead me to him." 
               Johanan though somewhat surprised never changed his features, but grasping his visitor's hand said, "'tis all well, we now understand each other; in yonder chamber you will find the youth; but agitate him not too much, or his wounds may produce a fever." 
               Modas entered the chamber much to the surprise and joy of Hassan. After a long conversation he descended again, bidding his host adieu and casting a curious glance at Miriam. 
               A short time now quietly passed away. Hassan recovered the effects of his wound and in a few days was able to arise from his couch; but weak from the loss of blood was compelled to remain under the protection of Johanan's roof. Miriam was his constant companion. She wiled away his weary hours with cheering converse; sang to him sad songs of the captivity of her race, almost melting the listener to tears, and then gay troubadours of the festive scenes of Babylon, accompanied by the harp, that brought smiles again. 
               Hassan sat and listened, watching her graceful motions as she flitted hither and thither, performing her few household duties, often musing like one in a dream, or endeavoring to solve some perplexing problem. 
               After a lapse of two weeks, Modas visited him again. When he had departed, Hassan descended from his chamber and found his fair hostess alone. "Miriam," said he, "I must leave you tonight." 
               She started and the color receded for a moment from her cheeks. "Why, so soon? You have scarce recovered your strength yet. You need be in no haste; you are a welcome guest." 
               "I cannot doubt it. But I would speak of another subject. Come sit by my side and listen." Miriam became seated, somewhat agitated, for her woman's instinct told her what was coming. 
               "Miriam; though wounded when brought beneath your roof, I have since been pierced by a deeper dart. Fascinated by your every motion, I have learned to love, to live upon your smiles. Can you, will you return my passion? I offer you neither rank, wealth, or station. I am not even of your race. All I offer is my love,-the first pure love of a youthful heart. But if you will become the partner of my life, be I who or what I may, fear not but what I will protect, honor, love and exalt your station as if you were a princess. Speak! tell me my fate. Shall I go forth desolate and heart broken, or shall I go to win the proper station whence I can return for a loving bride?" 
               The rich warm blood had mounted to Miriam's cheeks as she listened. She returned his gaze with a searching glance, and then as if trusting in his sincerity, placed her hand in his, exclaiming,-"Go! buoyant and full of hope; your love is returned." 
               Hassan drew her to his bosom, imprinting the first sweet kisses on her rosy lips. Then they discoursed long of their love and the future. Thus for a time we will leave them. 
               When the shades of evening began to fall, Modas came in a skiff to convey Hassan away. The youth bade his host adieu, placing a string of costly pearls on Miriam's neck and stepped lightly on board the skiff. 
               The beautiful Jewess stood upon the stone steps gazing after the fast retreating form of her lover, and little dreaming of the storm of trouble that was gathering over her head. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               Now we will turn to another scene on the night of Hassan's departure. 'Tis an apartment in the royal palace. Rich carpets, wrought in fantastic figures, cover its floors. Damask curtains hang around its walls, and between their heavy folds portraits of former monarchs and pictures of battles hang in finely carved frames. From the ceiling golden lamps are suspended that shed a clear but not dazzling light, while in various niches around the walls stand little vases of silver filled with sweet scented flowers. 
               Seated on a divan at one end of the apartment, was a man arrayed in magnificent robes. He was in the prime of life, with regular and not unhandsome features, once fair, but now flushed with intemperance and sensual in their expression; of 
                     medum
                     medium
                   height but corpulent; black waving locks and haughty glance; such was Belshazzar, King of Babylon. 
               He seemed ill at ease, and rising paced up and down the apartment in an impatient manner. At length he seemed relieved by the entrance of a man arrayed in the chieftain's costume of the royal guard. 
               "Ha! Moran, you have finally arrived. What news?" 
               "Good." 
               "Have you found her, or learned who she is?" 
               "Aye, both." 
               "Well done! by the heavens, 'twill pay to sail on the river every day, if we can spy out such beauties on the shore. Who is she?" 
               "A Jewess; the daughter of a fisherman; though he is said to be rich. I am certain of the matter for I marked the dwelling well, and learned all I wish from an old woman near by. The charmer's name is Miriam." 
               "Ha! then she is a Jewess! Well, it matters not; these daughters of Israel are ever fair. This one is beautiful, and must be mine. Now listen, Moran. You have trusty soldiers who will do your bidding without wagging their tongues. Can you not seize this maiden without any alarm, and bear her away?" 
               "Aye, if I can learn when her father is absent, I can easily bear her away upon the river." 
               "Then put your men on the watch, and bring the fair captive to the Temple of Belus." 
               "It shall be done as soon as possible." 
               "'Tis well; your reward shall be ample. Now what learn you of the Persian's movements?" 
               "But little. They are encamped in quiet, and keep their lines so loosely guarded 'tis almost impossible for our spies to pass them. However, I have one who enters their camp with impunity." 
               "Ha! who is it? He shall receive our favor." 
               "'Tis Modas, one of our 
                     Chaldaeans
                     Chaldeans
                  ; he manages to elude their vigilance, and he says they will soon raise the 
                     seige
                     siege
                  ; and only keep their gates shut a while for mere bravado. So your majesty need apprehend no danger from them." 
               "By heavens! I do not. King Cyrus may besiege our walls as long as he pleases. He might as well attempt to scale the heavens. But how do the people feel?" 
               "Secure. They laugh at the Persian." 
               "Then all is well. So now fail not to capture this maiden; she seemed too rich a prize to lose." 
               "Never fear. To-morrow night she shall grace the Temple with her presence." 
               On the following evening, as Miriam sat in her apartment lightly touching the strings of her harp, and musing o'er the destiny of her lover, she was aroused by a demand for admission at the door; fearing no harm, and supposing it to be some one who might wish to wait for her father's return, for she received many such a customer after night fall, she hastened to answer the summons. 
               Opening the door, a man in citizen's attire, who was no other than Moran the guardsman, said, "Is my friend Johanan at home? I have business to transact with him." 
               "No; but he will soon be in. Is your business urgent?" 
               "'Tis of importance." 
               "Then enter and await his return." 
               As the stranger entered she turned to lead the way, when Moran, with a quick motion, cast his robe over her head, and grasped her in his arms, thus muffling her voice, and holding her powerless in his grasp. Giving a low whistle, some half dozen of his followers quickly entered to aid him. 
               In vain were Miriam's struggles and attempts at escape. In a few moments her captors had her securely bound; then stepping out on the portico, Moran gave a signal, and a barge that had been lying in readiness advanced to the steps. Miriam was conveyed on board, and the barge glided rapidly away o'er the waters towards the centre of the city. 
                
               Scarce had it faded away in the distance when Johanan entered his home to find it deserted, and his well loved daughter mysteriously gone. 
               Upon the grand square in the centre of Babylon, stood the famous Temple of Belus. Its massive foundations covered an area a furlong square, and tower rose above tower till it reached nearly a furlong in height. This stupendous structure was at once the temple of a popular deity and a fortalice of great strength, manned by the legions of Belshazzar's royal guard; so that within its walls every fancy of his capricious will was supreme law. 
               It was commanded by Bonari, a middle aged warrior, who obeyed no law except the King's wish. With Bonari there dwelt a beautiful and light hearted maiden, who was known and treated with respect by all inmates of the temple as Bonari's daughter. 
               Selina, for such was her name, was a fair haired, light complexioned beauty, whose blue eyes sparkled with mirth and mischief, and whose voice was full of music as she caroled the popular songs of Babylon, while she wandered at random from hall to chamber, from balcony to turret, throughout the mighty temple. Now singing some wild air to the soldiers who grouped at their ease in the lower halls, and then appearing on the topmost turret where the eye could glance o'er the sea of roofs and gardens for miles around, even to the outer walls. Many were the secrets she ferreted out in the old temple, yet she kept her own counsel, and prated not her knowledge of its hidden passages and vaults. 
               Having thus taken a glance at the temple, we must turn to our heroine. As the Euphrates flowed near the walls of the temple, Moran soon conducted his captive to a well furnished apartment in the eastern wing; then releasing her bonds quickly departed, barring the door as he left. Miriam knew that she was a prisoner, but why or wherefore was beyond her comprehension. Going to the lattice that admitted light to the apartment, she saw the lights shining from dwellings far below, and knew that escape was impossible in that direction. Amazed and torn by conflicting emotions, she threw herself upon a couch, and ere long sank to tearful slumber. 
               When she awoke the sun was shining brightly through the lattice. Refreshed and calmer in mind, she gazed on the city below, and by the statues and fountains that surrounded the great square, she knew that she was in the temple; but wherefore was yet a mystery. 
               She thought of Hassan, and her mind recurred to the combat on the river. Perchance they had incurred official displeasure; but why seize her thus; and again, where was her father? Was he too a prisoner? Thus passed the day in harrassing doubts. 
               An Ethiopian servant brought her meals and trimmed her lamp, but vouchsafed no answer to her questions. Opening her mouth instead, to Miriam's horror, she showed a mutilated tongue. 
               At an early hour in the evening she was startled by the entrance of a man gorgeously arrayed, and not unhandsome though flushed with wine. 
               "Who are you that come to the captive; are you friend or foe?" 
                
               "A friend; what else could I be to one so beautiful?" 
               "Then tell me why I am torn from my home and imprisoned here?" 
               "'Twas done for your happiness." 
               A curl wreathed the lips of the beautiful Jewess, and her eyes flashed with anger, for she began to understand her position. "Pray explain," she sneered. 
               "I will; I have seen you, and charmed by your beauty, loved. I had you brought thither that I might proclaim my passion and entreat you to become mine." 
               "A noble way to woo, forsooth; who are you that thus dared to trifle with my liberty? Think you thus to win my love?" 
               "Gently; I am one whose love you should be proud to receive. Thousands of maidens would sell their very souls to win my smile. I am Belshazzar, your king." 
               Miriam started with surprise, but drawing herself haughtily up, said, "has not your majesty a Queen,-aye, and wives enough beside, and do you prate to me, a humble maiden, of love? Think you I would listen to such a tale, even if offered at my feet, as should be, at my father's house?" 
               Belshazzar gazed at her a moment in evident surprise, then said, "Listen, maiden, I throw off my prestige as King. I would win your love. Become mine and you shall never want or repine, but live in splendor where you will. I will pour out treasures at your feet and raise you to a position high for one of your captive race. If you feel the power of love, if you would lead a life of ambition and pleasure, become mine; you shall never regret it." 
               "I can only treat your words with the scorn they deserve. They are none the better for being uttered by a king. Sooner will I sell my life than my honor." 
               "Ha! some youth has already won your heart. Is it not so?" 
               "That matters not; 'tis no business of yours." 
               "By heavens! I thought as much. Know you where you are and who I am? I would have won your love; you scorn my offers, now I shall claim my prize whether you will or no." And he attempted to grasp her in his arms. 
               With a sudden bound she tore herself from his grasp and drew back a few paces. Belshazzar made another attempt to seize her, but she placed her hand in her bosom and drew a bright sharp dagger and raising it said, "touch me again at your peril. I will bury this dagger in your craven heart, king though you be. So beware." 
               The king turned pale with anger. The rays of the lamp shone brightly on the polished weapon, and he saw from the nervous grasp with which she held it, and the burning glance of her eye, that she was bent on mischief. 
               "Leave me! No longer insult me with your presence. March through yonder door, or by the God of my fathers, I will spill some of your craven blood;" and she advanced with the dagger raised to strike. 
               With a scowl Belshazzar backed out, exclaiming, "Think not thus to escape me. You never shall leave this apartment till you are mine. I can well wait till your dagger is wrested from you." 
               When he was gone, Miriam threw herself on her couch to reflect on her position. She had reclined there but a few moments when she was startled by a grating sound near by. Rising to see what it meant, with astonishment she beheld a large portrait frame roll heavily aside, as if moved on wheels, and a fair maiden step through the opening thus revealed. The strange visitor gazed kindly upon her. 
               "Who are you that visit me thus strangely? Surely one so young and pure cannot be leagued with my enemies." 
               "I am no enemy. I knew there was a maiden captive here, and I came to visit you. I had just arrived behind this picture when your royal visitor entered." 
               "Then you heard the king?" 
               "Aye, these walls were made for hearing. It done me good to hear you brave him out, if he was a king." And she laughed merrily. 
               "But, but, who are you? How came you hither thus strangely?" 
               "Oh! my father is governor of the Temple. I have always lived here and learned many a strange secret. But I feel interested for you. Tell me, how came you here? and if I can aid you I will. Fear not; I will be your friend; I like the way you repulsed the king." 
               The fair Jewess related her capture. When she had finished, Selina said, "What would you have me do?" 
               "Can you not conduct me away by the passage whence you entered?" 
               "No, it has no outlet beyond the walls." 
               "Alas! there is no escape. Can you not get me a dagger? I fear mine will be rested from me in my sleep." 
               "Aye, here is one I always wear. I can get me another easily." 
               "Can you leave here when you please?" 
               "Yes. Would you send a message? If so I can carry it." 
               "If you can go to my father and tell him where I am, you will do me a great kindness." And she proceeded to inform Selina where her father dwelt; and after further conversation, they bade each other adieu, Selina promising to visit her again. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               On the following day Selina left the Temple as she was often wont to do, to walk among the numerous gardens and fountains that filled the public squares. She walked at a lively pace towards the northern part of the city, and in an hour had arrived at Johanan's door. 
               When she had been admitted she said, "am I addressing Johanan, the Jew?" 
                
               "Aye, I am he." 
               "Then I come to bring you tidings of your daughter." 
               "Ha! speak! where is she? I have searched for her among her youthful comrades 'till hope was gone." 
               "She left not her home. She was borne away by force." 
               "I began to suspect as much. By whom?" 
               "I hardly dare to tell you. You must not reveal my words." 
               "You need not fear. I shall seek for vengeance, but I would never betray where I obtained my knowledge." 
               "She was borne away by the king's minions, to be sacrificed for his pleasure." 
               "By the king! May curses alight on him. Where is she?" 
               "In the temple of Belus." 
               "Then escape is difficult. But how knew you of it?" 
               "I am the governor's daughter, and know many a secret of the old Temple, for I reside there." 
               "Can you not aid her escape?" 
               "I fear me not at present; but fear not for her safety now. She drove Belshazzar from her prison room last night, at the point of the dagger. He will not molest her again while she is armed, and ere long I hope to plan her escape if it can be done without my agency being revealed. I came to inform you of her position. I must now away or my long absence will be noted. I will see you on the day after to-morrow, if you will meet me at the fountain before the Temple; then I shall know better how to aid her escape." 
               "I will meet you; but for heaven's sake release her if you can. She is my only joy, all that is left to me on earth, and to have her thus torn away is agony." 
               When Selina departed, Johanan sat for a long time lost in musing, the agonized expression of his features showing how deeply he was moved. At length he was roused by another summons at the door, and rising admitted Modas the Chaldean. 
               "Ha! welcome!" said he; "I have need of your advice if you can aid one who has lately aided you." 
               "My services are at your command. But where is your daughter? I have a message for her." 
               "'Tis of her I would speak. She has been snatched away from me by violence." 
               "Snatched away! what mean you?" 
               Johanan related his conversation with Selina. 
               Modas mused awhile, then said, "Fear not for your daughter's safety. In three days she shall be restored to you, surely. Be not surprised, I can bring a power that will thwart Belshazzar. Aye, his sun shall set in a night of blood. So be wary. Look to your own safety and be not surprised, for strange things will occur. But I must away. I have much yet to do." When Modas left he proceeded to the royal palace and sought out the chief guardsman, Moran, with whom he conversed regarding the movements of the Persian encampment. Having assured Moran that they would soon raise the 
                     seige
                     siege
                  , a learned that Belshazzar was to hold a great feast on the eve of the following day, Modas departed with a strange expression on his features, and turned his steps towards the temple of Belus. Having entered that part of the mighty structure devoted to the priesthood and the services of the deity to which it was dedicated, he proceeded with the manner of one familiar to the place, to a cell on the northern side of the Temple. 
               As he entered, a man well in years and silver haired, who much resembled him in countenance, arose, saying, "Ha! brother, back again? I thought you in the Persian camp. What new movements have you? I expected you not till the morrow." 
               "All is well. I am on other business. I must explore these old passages. Know you ought of a maiden Belshazzar has caged in the other wing of the Temple?" 
               "Nothing. He or his courtiers often bring captive maidens hither; but I know naught of them." 
               "Know you where they are usually placed?" 
               "Aye, in the rooms entered by the portraits. If there is a maiden here you would seek, you will probably find her in one of those three apartments." 
               "I know where they are. No one will enter til I return, I suppose?" 
               "Not at present; I will close the entrance if there does." 
               Modas now moved a sliding panel, revealing a narrow passage in the masonry of the massive outer wall; following its narrow windings ere long he arrived the first of the apartments mentioned. Moving the heavy portrait back by means of the hidden springs, he stepped boldly into the apartment where he beheld Miriam. 
               For a moment she trembled at his abrupt entrance, then uttered an exclamation of joy as she grasped his proffered hand. 
               "Then you have found me. Have you seen my father? How fares he?" 
               "I but shortly left him." 
               "And, Hassan where is he? in safety?" 
               "All are safe, but you: and I come to bid you have no fears. To-morrow night shall see you safely restored to your father and your lover. Start not; Hassan conceals nothing from me. So wait patiently. You have weapons have you not?" 
               "Aye, a pair of daggers." 
               "You will not be molested till you are disarmed, and I hope to rescue you ere then. So rest in peace." 
               Modas returned to the priest's cell. "Brother," said the priest, "when shall I look for the accomplishment of your plans?" 
               "To-morrow night." 
               "So soon?" 
               "Aye, the end is nigh. Can you be in readiness?" 
               "All shall be prepared." 
               "Then all is well." Modas now hurried to the northern part of the city, and by the means we have before described, left its walls under cover of night and entered the Persian camp. 
                
               Another day has passed again. The shades of night have fallen over Babylon, shrouding all objects in a dim uncertain light, for although the moon was nearly gone, the stars shone brightly in the skies o'erhead. Johanan sat in his portico musing moodily on his daughter's dangers, and wondering in what manner the Chaldean could rescue her. As he gazed abstractedly on the waters of the Euphrates, it occured to him that they were far below their usual level; stepping down on the stone steps he found the waters fast 
                     receeding
                     receding
                   and his boat nearly stranded; amazed he turned to the porch and stood gazing with astonishment on the bed of the stream which was fast becoming dry, leaving a sandy bottom interspersed with little pools. At length a new thought seemed to occur to him, for he seated himself and remained gazing anxiously up the bed of the stream. 
               Meanwhile let us turn to other scenes. Throughout the city, in palace and cottage, was held one universal feast. Songs wild and gay; the tripping of feet in the mazy dance; and strains of music were heard in every quarter. All was revelry. 
               In the royal palace a mighty throng of the beautiful, the wealthy, and the highborn, were gathered in the banqueting hall to honor the festive board of Belshazzar. 
               Sweet strains of music by invisible musicians floated in the air. Gold and silver ware in abundance, plundered from the mighty Temple of Solomon, glistened on the tables, and the wine in the goblets sparkled beneath the rays of a thousand glittering lamps o'erhead. The feast was nearly finished; the costly viands had disappeared under the vigorous attacks of the courtiers, and now the red wine began to flow; intrigue began its sway, and bright eyed maidens lent willing ears to tales of love. 
               Belshazzar, whose handsome features were already flushed with wine, beckoned to his chieftain, Moran, who had left the feast and again returned. 
               "How now Moran," said he in a whisper, "how fares my beautiful Jewess?" 
               "She is safe and secure." 
               "Have they disarmed her? By my soul but you should have seen her handle her dagger! 'Twas no trifling play; I thought she would murder me." 
               "Her dagger is gone so you have naught to fear." 
               "Then by the Heavens she shall be mine this night. Be ready to accompany me to the Temple in another hour. We'll see who shall win." 
               As he turned again to his wine, a wild cry of terror rose from the assembly, and many fingers pointed tremblingly to the wall. Belshazzar rose to his feet and gazed; a cry of terror also broke from his lips. The goblet fell front his hands; the flush of wine was gone, and his cheeks turned an ashen hue, for there was seen a perfect hand high in air writing rapidly on the wall, and yet no form, angelic or human, was visible. 
               Soon the, magic words glistened and shone like lines of living fire. 
                
               All the mirth was hushed; laugh and song burst no more from gay lips. The wine had lost its charm. The throng sat pale and silent, for they had beheld a miracle, and whether for good or evil none could tell, for none could read the mystic writing. 
               When they had in a measure recovered their terror, Belshazzar ordered all the Chaldeans and magicians of the court to be summoned, that they might translate the lines that shone so brightly on the wall. 
               But for once the subtle sons of magic felt the weakness of their power. In vain was their lore of magic, in vain their knowledge of the stars, and ready sleight of band that made serpents of reeds. One after another they turned sadly away, for none could tell. 
               Then spoke Belshazzar's Queen, saying, "There is a prophet of the Children of Israel in Babylon, whom thy father, O, King, found to be of great wisdom and whom he named Belteshazzar. Let him be called." 
               A messenger was soon sent, and ere long returned with the noble Daniel, the prophet of Israel's God, in whose, knowledge and power all yielded confidence, as they heard the words with which he addressed the King. 
               Then all was hushed, as turning to the mystic lines the prophet announced their decrees. "God hath numbered thy kingdom and finished it. Thou, O Belshazzar art weighed in the balances and found wanting. Thy kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians." 
               As the conviction settled upon the revelers, that they had witnessed the decrees of the living God, each countenance became paler, and when the prophet left, the wine remained untouched in their goblets. A low murmur ran through the assembly, and rising from their seats they prepared to depart; but ere they could leave, now sounds smote their ears. The wild clangor of trumpet and cymbal, the clash of arms in fierce conflict, the shout of a charging foe and wild yell of the dying, all told that a tide of war was flowing over fated Babylon. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               We left Johanan gazing in anxious wonder up the channel of the Euphrates. Ere long a startling vision met his gaze. With measured tread, no banners flaunting in the air, no martial music to proclaim their advance, he beheld a mighty host of warriors marching down the stream. 
                
               Closely packed ranks of infantry, bristling with spears, long lines of cavalry, each horseman equipped with drawn scimetar and shining shield, moved silently on, till the whole channel of the stream, far as the eye could reach, seemed one mass of warriors pouring on with irresistible force. 
               Then the truth flashed to his mind; the Persian foe, who had lain so quietly encamped before the city, had turned the Euphrates from its course, and while all Babylon was engaged in revelry, were marching, safe and silent, to its very center; then the words of Modas occurred to him with full force, and while he wondered what knowledge the Chaldean had of the Persian's scheme, his attention was drawn by two warriors, who, riding close beside the steps of his porch, beckoned to him. Descending cautiously, he was surprised at hearing a familiar voice say, 
               "How now, my noble host; are you ready to seek vengeance on your Miriam's oppressors?" 
               "Aye; but how is this? Surely you seem to be my friend Modas, and this seems much like Hassan?" 
               "None other. Descend and mount. I will quickly furnish you a steed. Babylon changes owners to-night, and you might as well mingle in the fray." 
               "Right gladly," said Johanan, as he mounted a fully equipped steed which they held. "But how came you with the Persian hosts?" 
               "We came as many another who has felt Belshazzar's tyranny,-for vengeance. But let us on. The king feasts to-night, but there will be other sounds than revelry ere morn. On,"-and pressing on, full as the uneven channel would permit, they were seen in the front ranks. They had now arrived at one of the public squares where the banks of the river shelved to the bottom of the channel, and turning their horses' heads, long lines of cavalry began to file up the banks and pour into the streets, while every available foothold was thronged with infantry. 
               Meanwhile, as many watchers had already detected the rapid march of the foe, every quarter resounded with the rallying cry. Fast as the alarm spread, the citizen soldiery sprang to arms and hastened to the conflict. But the Persian onslaught was impetuous, and their advancing columns swept the terror-stricken Babylonians from their path. Led by well known guides, the cavalry, with whom were our friends, raised the cry of "on, on to the royal palace," and riding over the citizen soldiery, they swept the royal guard, like chaff before the winds, from their course, and poured into the grand banqueting hall of the palace, where the feasters yet remained. The 
                     conflct
                     conflict
                   was carnage. Belshazzar and most of his courtiers were soon passed from time to eternity, and the mystic decree, that yet shone over the scene, to the wonder of the Persian, was fulfilled. 
               When the Persian had swept the palace, they turned the tide of war toward the mighty Temple of Belus. Soon the grand square before the vast structure was thronged with infantry, while heavy bodies of cavalry filled every avenue whence aid could be brought. But the Temple seemed likely to prove a stronghold not easily conquered. Its towers and parapets were manned by the choicest soldiery of Babylon, who poured down showers of arrows, of melted lead, hot oil, and seemed determined to die fighting at their post. Every entrance was closed and strongly barred. For a time the Persian stormed in vain, when the great gateway leading to that wing of the Temple where the people were accustomed to assemble in worship of their deity, was thrown open by a portion of the Chaldean priesthood, at whose head was the brother of Modas. 
               Loud shouts of triumph now burst from the besiegers, as they hurried through the entrance-for Babylon's mighty stronghold was fallen! From hall to chamber by passage and stairway, as tower rose above tower, the Persians rushed in countless numbers. Though brave, the resistance of the Babylonians was vain, for their foes were numberless and flushed with victory. And, after a short conflict, those who were not already slain, surrendered. 
               Modas, Hassan, and Johanan, had abandoned their steeds, and were among the first to enter the Temple. Guided by Mozana, Modas' brother, when the conflict lulled, they sought Miriam's prison chamber. As they were about to enter, they heard shrieks from female lips, with the hasty trampling of feet in contest. Bursting open the door, they beheld Moran, with Selina in his arms, just entering the secret passage of the portrait, while two soldiers, who had just wrested Miriam's dagger from her grasp, were dragging her after them. 
               Moran endeavored to close the passage, but Modas, to whom the different combats of the night seemed to have restored all the buoyancy of youth, bounded after him and cleaved his scull with one blow of his scimetar, and then bore Selina to a seat. 
               Johanan was about to attack the other soldiers, but Hassan said, "Back, leave them to me;" and handling his weapon with all the skill of a practised swordsman, he struck down one at the first pass, when the other dropped on his knees and begged for mercy. 
               "Then take your comrade's carcass and go," said Hassan, as he turned and clasped Miriam in a warm embrace. Johanan viewed this little interlude with looks of evident approbation. 
               When the party became seated and Johanan was expressing his joy at his daughter's recovery, they were startled by an exclamation of astonishment from Modas. 
               The Chaldean had been bending over Selina, who had scarce recovered from a swoon, when he burst out with, "Great God! it is! it is! it must be my long lost child!" 
               "What mean you, brother!" said Mozana; "surely you must be crazed!" 
               "Crazed! well I might be. Look here! behold!" 
               In the struggle with Moran the garments had been torn from Selina's shoulders, and traced, in scarlet upon the fair white shoulder, a perfect arrow, barb, shaft and feathers, was seen. 
               "Listen," said Modas. "Years ago, as you, brother, well know, my beautiful bride and infant child were torn from my home by the myrmidons of the then Prince Belshazzar, as you, Miriam, have now been. From that day to this, I never could find them; so I have lived only to seek vengeance, and richly have I won it. Now, in the day of my triumph, I believe my daughter is restored to me, for the infant child had this strange mark upon its shoulder. She is, she must be, my long lost daughter." 
               Selina had now recovered, and opening her eyes, gazed around fully restored. 
               "Speak, daughter! what is your name,-your parentage?" 
               "My name is Selina." 
               "Ha! 'twas my wife's. Who are your parents?" 
               "My mother I cannot remember. My father is chief commander of the Temple." 
               "And know you nothing more; nothing of this mark on your shoulder, or of your mother's death?" 
               "Nothing." 
               "Perchance this governor may reveal more of the matter, if he can be found." 
               "Ay," said Hassan, "I will send a soldier to seek him." And entering the passage where a number of the Persians were assembled, he bade an officer to seek if the governor of the Temple was among the prisoners; and to bring him thither if he could be found alive. And, returning to his comrades, they waited in anxiety the result of the search. 
               When nearly half an hour had elapsed, the officer returned, with the fallen chieftain of the Temple. 
               "Your name?" said Modas, regarding him with a piercing glance. 
               "Bonari." 
               "You have been governor of this Temple for many years?" 
               "Aye."  
               "So far, 'tis well. Now, whose daughter is this maiden?" 
               "Mine." 
               "Liar! Your features plainly contradict the tale. Now, reveal her history, or your head shall fall beneath the axe. Speak, and to the point, if you value your life." 
               Bonari stood for a moment, then replied; "deception is useless. She is no child of mine, though I have nursed her and loved her at length, as my own." 
               "How came you by her?" 
               "Her mother was placed here in confinement, and died suddenly of the heart disease. This infant was left in my care. Having no children of my own, I adopted her. My wife soon died, and I reared her, as the only being for whom I had any attachment." 
               "'Tis enough. Come to my arms, my loved, my long lost child!" With a cry of joy Selina was clasped in her father's embrace. 
               When they had become seated again, Modas said, "My noble prince, grant me one boon." 
               "What is it?" said Hassan. 
               "Let this governor be restored to freedom. He has been a father to my child." 
               "It shall be done." 
                
               Miriam arose, trembling, agitated, with pale features, but with eyes that shone with a painful brilliancy-"Speak again, Modas; what called you Hassan?" 
               Modas started, and turned his gaze enquiringly to Hassan. The youth nodded. 
               "I called him Prince." 
               Miriam became paler yet, but turned to Hassan, saying, "Who! who then are you? Speak, I pray." 
               "I am a Persian, Cambyses, grandson of King Cyrus, the Median." 
               Miriam sank, fainting to her seat, murmuring, "Lost! Lost!" 
               When she recovered, Cambyses held her folded in his arms, and the others were gone. As she gazed up into his eyes and beheld their earnest expression, she trembled, and nestled closer in his grasp. "Can it be," she murmured, "that you are a Prince! a Persian! and yet-yet"- 
               "And yet I love you. Think you that I would desert your love because I may yet fill Persia's throne? By the heavens, you know me not, nor the power of true love. Your father plunged not into the Euphrates to save a prince, and you nursed but a poor unknown youth, when I was lying wounded in your house. As such he won your love, and yet hopes to raise you to a throne as his loving Queen. Are you now content to become his bride?" 
               The tears of joy now coursed down Miriam's cheeks. She could hardly believe the words that thrilled so sweetly on her ears. When she had become calmer she said, "But how, how came you in Babylon, when my father drew you from the river?" 
               "'Tis a simple tale. We have long had our spies in Babylon, chief among whom was Modas, who, as you have learned, maddened by the loss of his bride, was earnestly seeking for vengeance on Belshazzar. He has often been in the Persian court and camp. I accompanied him hither to see fully the accomplishment of our schemes, and by some mishap, one of the King's spies learned me to be a Persian and attempted my capture; the rest you know." 
               "But how have your armies gained entrance to the city?" 
               "Right easily. 'Twas Modas' scheme. We turned the Euphrates from its course, and marched beneath the walls in its channel." 
               We will now leave the lovers to their converse, and but little more need be said. 
               Belshazzar's dynasty was overthrown. The Persian King, Darius, was placed securely on the 
                     trone
                     throne
                   of Babylon. 
               Ere many weeks elapsed, there was another grand festival in the royal palace. Prince Cambyses was wedded with a Babylonish maiden,-the beautiful Miriam. At the same time, Selina was united to Cyaxares, a Median officer yet in his youth, and a comrade of Prince Cambyses. 
             
         
       
   
