
    ----CITATION----
        Burckett, Florence.. Wildmoor .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5946 wright2-0420
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               WILDMOOR.
               A NOVEL.
            
            BY FLORENCE BURCKETT.
            
            
               
                  "Youth, like the aloe, blossoms but once, and its flower springs from the midst of thorns."
               
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
            
            1875.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
            
         
         
            INSCRIBED AFFECTIONATELY TO MY REVERED FRIEND, MRS. ANNA PEYRE DINNIES, A POETESS OF THE SOUTHLAND.
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. Miss Brent Writes. 9
               
               CHAPTER II. Hope Writes. 28
               
               CHAPTER III. Hope Writes. 53
               
               CHAPTER IV. Hope Writes. 60
               
               CHAPTER V. Hope Writes. 74
               
               CHAPTER VI. Hope Writes. 82
               
               CHAPTER VII. Hope Writes. 105
               
               CHAPTER VIII. Geoffrey Writes. 116
               
               CHAPTER IX. Geoffrey Writes. 131
               
               
               CHAPTER X. Geoffrey Writes. 139
               
               CHAPTER XI. Geoffrey Writes. 153
               
               CHAPTER XII. Hope Writes. 163
               
               CHAPTER XIII. Hope Writes. 187
               
               CHAPTER XIV. Miss Brent Writes. 194
               
               CHAPTER XV. Miss Brent Writes. 199
               
               CHAPTER XVI. Geoffrey Writes. 219
               
               CHAPTER XVII. Geoffrey Writes. 226
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. Geoffrey Writes. 235
               
               CHAPTER XIX. Geoffrey Writes. 239
               
               CHAPTER XX. Geoffrey Writes. 258
               
               CHAPTER XXI. Geoffrey Writes. 264
               
               CHAPTER XXII. Hope Writes. 273
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. Hope Writes. 279
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. Hope Writes. 291
               
               CHAPTER XXV. Hope Writes. 300
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. Hope Writes. 312
               
               CHAPTER XXVII. Hope Writes. 317
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII. Hope Writes. 321
               
               CHAPTER XXIX. Hope Writes. 329
               
               CHAPTER XXX. Hope Writes. 343
               
               CHAPTER XXXI. Hope Writes. 362
               
               CHAPTER XXXII. Hope Writes. 373
               
               CHAPTER XXXIII. Hope Writes. 407
               
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV. Geoffrey Writes. 414
               
               CHAPTER XXXV. Geoffrey Writes. 426
               
               CHAPTER XXXVI. Miss Brent Writes. 437
               
               CHAPTER XXXVII. Miss Brent Writes. 448
               
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. After Some Years. Miss Brent Writes. 459
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Wildmoor
            WILDMOOR.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               MISS BRENT WRITES.
               "LUCY, what are you looking at?"
               "Nothing," I said, and turned to scan a little knot of humanity which sat curled up on a bench in the waiting-room of L—— railway station.
               My answer was given listlessly; in truth, the response conveyed but meagre information, for, at the time of which I write, there existed a tendency in my mind to deal sparsely in fact.
               "It's very unkind of you to be looking at nothing, Lucy; it's horrid of you to be standing there so quiet, you know, when I'm just biting my tongue to keep from screaming with impatience! Will that ridiculous train never come? How can you bear to be looking at nothing!"
               So saying, Eleanor rose, and, with a yawn, joined me in my watch beside the window.
               The sun had gone down, and the gray of evening shot darkening arrows across the sky.
               It caused me a smile to see my sister's neck stretching itself into the twilight, and her eyes indignantly essaying to secure some object upon which to speculate. But finding no encouragement in that outside prospect, she walked back to a corner of the bench; then, with a jerk of her cloak, made of herself a snugly-curled ball, leaving me to solitude, with full and absolute power to gaze upon whatsoever I chose.
               
               There was a clock upon the mantel. It had dozed on to a quarter of seven. The minutes seemed lengthened into endless duration, and were then barely dragging themselves away.
               We had pleaded for this visit to town so strongly. It was a pleasant flitting from home, and the wish to surprise Walter on his return from the University had been urged as a pretext for the jaunt; so, much against his inclination, Geoffrey had bundled us into the carriage, and Thomas had driven off with us, and there we were,—tired, cross, and altogether out of sorts; repenting that we had come, but never daring to intimate that our desires were pointing homeward.
               Already the train was overdue an hour, and before this the time of waiting had grown into a season of uncontrollable suspense. Indeed, were it not for an incident arising that diverted us from dwelling upon the theme, I do not know how we should have staggered on through the next quarter of time.
               Dull and dreary enough it was, with nothing at which to stare but a dirty floor, a high old mantel-shelf, a clock whose face seemed sleepy, a bench with tall back, and my sister Nell's figure knotted up upon one portion of its wooden seat.
               To defend myself from being stared at in return by the aforesaid objects, I had taken my stand beside that dingy loophole yclept window, and was gazing out into the twilight, when the above colloquy took place.
               And my response had been such, causing Nell to indulge herself in a fit of indignation.
               "Nothing."
               She thereupon meted out a punishment by abandoning me forthwith to the delights of that paradoxical view.
               Well, it was the truth, to be sure.
               There was the track extending away off, true; and there was an outward-bound train completing preparations for departure, with now and then a passenger straggling to the office for his ticket.
               There lay the town to our left, with its line of houses and steeples gray in the declining light, and an occasional carriage rattling along its streets; but I looked at none of these; my eyes caught not a gleam of pink in the sky, nor a thread of the darkness creeping down upon us.
               I was dreaming, castle building,—not for myself, though (I never do that),—and watching our elder brother's tall figure pacing the platform, up and down, backward and forward, with a monotonous stride.
               Poor Geoffrey!
               The lines upon his face were hard and many; that dear and noble face, beautiful to me, I know, though few might have found other than homeliness stamped upon its features. That tall form moving to and fro in the twilight awoke strange elements of sadness in my heart. In early youth, trouble had crowded thickly upon him; latterly, the vexations of life were but slight in comparison, yet my keen sisterly affection detected every furrow upon his brow, and I grieved that things should go awry.
               Dear, good brother! He never alluded to the day's vexations, yet I read his face well. He was too proud a man to show that he suffered annoyance or sorrow; my love, however, penetrated beneath all disguise, and could detect the truth below; I knew always when trouble vexed him.
               It was of this and many other things I was musing in the twilight of that evening in May; afterwards I grew to pondering my brother's character and to drawing visions of his future, when crash! down came my cloud-castles, shivered into atoms, and I found myself turning towards Eleanor and scanning her impatient visage with indifference as she exclaimed, querulously,—
               "Lucy, what are you looking at?"
               For some moments I stood in silence at my post, then, sympathizing with that curled-up knot on the bench, called out, cheerily,—
               "Do come, Nell, and see this nice old man trudging along; he has such a pretty dog, too."
               "I can't see anything in this dark," returned she, rather pettishly, but moving towards me.
               "Oh, yes, you can! Do look right over there; poor fellow, he must be very old, and——"
               "I don't like nice old men," she interrupted; "ugh! they're so solemn, you know! Your nice old man mayn't be, but I don't want to make his acquaintance to-night. Oh, dear, I'm tired to death!"
               Just then the clock began striking seven.
               Nell slipped her arm through mine; upon the impulse of a moment, we sisters started forward, and moved out upon the platform to join the lonely walker there in his promenade.
               It was too early yet for the moon, and we strode on in the half-light, half-darkness, scarcely uttering one syllable out of ten that bore upon it the stamp of reasonable conjecture.
               Beside us, the seven o'clock express had commenced to move,—slowly at first, but with a shout from the guards, "All aboard," its line of carriages received an impetus sending them forward with rapidity.
               When the last glow of light was fading in the distance, a figure shot suddenly past us on the platform, then, quite as suddenly checking its speed, remained motionless, and a voice groaned out,—
               "God-a-moighty, too late! An' I'll lay out my last shillin' fur a bite o' summat to eat. Th' genelmon sed, too, if I wern't theer th' mornin' I needn't to coom at all!"
               It was neither a gruff nor unpleasant voice thus ringing upon the air, but in tone it possessed a sharpness and weariness of accent that grated harshly upon the nerves.
               The form outlined against the night proclaimed a man of the laboring class; and as the moon was then nearing the horizon, and a glow was tinging the streets of the town, I could detect that in aspect he was weather-tossed and jaded,—possibly, a man who might have been tramping through lanes and along highroads until from sheer exhaustion he was forced to halt and rest.
               After a pause, he stumbled up to where we were standing grouped together, and, doffing his hat, asked, doubtfully,—
               "Is it th' last train as goes out th' night, mester?" With an answer given confirming his fears, he dashed his hand over his forehead in a gesture of impatience.
               There was neither a bad nor bold expression upon the fellow's visage. As he stood twirling a slouched hat between his thumb and forefinger, I bent forward to scrutinize his features with some degree of curiosity.
               He seemed of average height, and was slightly though strongly built, an evidence that he had proven, perhaps, no laggard in the toils of life.
               A mass of hair over the forehead was very dark and thick; the brows, too, were heavily shaded, and a pair of keen eyes glanced from beneath,—eyes whose intensity of vision was then paling into dullness and languor.
               The shoulders were muscular, but bore a slight stoop; several times their owner threw them backward, as if the posture to which he was compelled were a painful one, and he were not yet accustomed to the wear and tear of years which bends the back and makes of the stalwart man but a swaying reed.
               As I have before said, there was but a jaded expression upon his countenance; every feature possessed a mournful weariness and recklessness that impressed me favorably in his behalf. We were about moving away, when he bestowed upon me so forlorn a gaze that I felt my heart all stirred in pity, and, by some unaccountable impulse, there darted like a flash into my thoughts a plan whose feasibility of action did not strike me as improbable in the main.
               Moving closer to the others, I whispered a few low words:
               "Geoffrey, couldn't you help the poor fellow to some employment? See how foot-sore and travel-worn he is! I'm quite sure you might find him a place with the farm-hands."
               At first my brother shook his head disapprovingly, but after some minutes of forcible argument he yielded a reluctant assent to my pleadings.
               "What is your name, my man?" inquired he, finally, in a tone betokening more of interest than one might have accredited him, judging from the manner in which he had received my proposition.
               "Eh, sur?" returned the other, twirling his hat round and round.
               "Your name!" reiterated Geoffrey.
               "Cross! Martin Cross, mester."
               "Are you out of work?"
               At this question the stranger looked down upon his garments, that were all threadbare, stroked his grizzled chin, and smoothed the wrinkles from his brow, as if the reply to that query were better contained in those gestures than by word of mouth; then exclaimed,—
               "Out o' work, mester, this mony a day. I wur to ha' gone to a genelmon's hall th' mornin', but, as yo see, sur, th' train ha' left, an' thet chance gone loike."
               "Well, my good fellow," said his interlocutor, "you seem honest enough. What is wrong, that you cannot obtain steady employment?"
               "I doant know, sur, I doant know, 'cept when a mon's down, 'tis th' way o'th' world to kick him further. Though this arm is never afeard o' work, mester" (stretching it forth, and regarding it with a degree of satisfaction), "trouble's well-nigh used it up."
               We glanced at the speaker in amazement. It seemed improbable that any weight, or sorrow, or misfortune, could stagger so athletic a frame, and Geoffrey, stepping forward a pace or two, looked with some derision at the figure before him, then rejoined, rather impetuously, "Why, strong and able as you are, trouble should be battled off; you're no weakling, to be cuffed about as a ball!"
               Something of fierceness here struggled into the stranger's eye, and one hand clinched tightly in its fellow whilst he replied, "Ah, sur, theer bides a time when a brawny muscle is na account. Th' rich folk loike to ha' theer commoners stout an' able-loike, fur when it's a tussel wi' 'em they set the law hoinds on a wretch, an' it's up wi' him then. If 't wur blow to blow, I shouldna be here now loike a tramp i' th' night."
               The voice had grown into bitterness, and once the speaker struck his breast with the full force of his hand; a pause succeeded, broken at length by his peering hard into my brother's face, and asking, "Beant yo th' mester from Weildmure, sur?"
               "Why, yes," was the reply; "you know this part of the country, then."
               "Know this part o' th' country? Theer an't a bog nur a mure in all Eingland, sur, thet I ha' nowt seen; I ha' tramped an' tramped abowt it till I'm all out o'soarts, an' loike to gi' up in despair. I ha' seen yo, mester, mony a toime i' th' road, and more'n once had a'most happened to arks yo fur work, bein' as I heeard th' folk say yo wur a kind genelmon to them as wur needy. Yo'd find me na sluggard, sur, fur I'd do your bid wi' a willin' heart an' hand, if yo'd just say th' word an' gi' me work. I doant arks fur charity. I doant want thet, an', God willin', I'll never want it, mester."
               "I cannot tell," Geoffrey exclaimed, "whether we need more labor in the fields or not. Still" (hesitating, and regarding the other keenly), "I might be able to do something for you,—perhaps. Suppose you come down to Wild-moor to-morrow noon, and I may possibly be able to say whether you could be of service to me."
               The man's hard features brightened somewhat, and his voice slightly shook in the reply:
               "Thank yo, mester, an' thank yo kindly, sur. If yo'll be patient a bit longer, I doant mind tellin' what have happened. Yo be gentlefolks as have a heart, an' when yo hear me out 'll not turn on yur heel afore yo'll say as how I wur not to blame."
               It was a group of attentive listeners gathered about that uncouth form. The light of the rising moon gilded each face with a lustre of silver, as we bent forward to hear what he had to say, and its beams fell pityingly upon the furrowed countenance before us.
               Even our reticent brother exhibited traces of curiosity, and Eleanor whispered, with enthusiasm, "There, now, Lucy, I could have told the man had a story, you know. It'll be as good as a book."
               There was still no token of the incoming train. We had, in a measure, forgotten our impatience at its delay; the interest awakened in our minds by the recital of Martin Cross's trouble serving to lighten of a weary burden that half-hour which intervened before its arrival.
               In a low though clear tone, he began thus:
               "Well, sur, I wur born an' raised on th' land o' th' grand Chester folk. Thet's down to th' suth; happen yo moight know 'em, mester?"
               "I remember a young Lord Chester said to be murdered a few years ago by his cousin,—a mere lad; the same, probably."
               There was no immediate response to this question, for just then Martin Cross, dropping his old, slouched hat, stooped to raise it before replying. Brushing it with some manifestation of care, he said stammeringly,—
               "Yes, yes, th' same; th' very same, sur."
               Again that rough, horny hand went up to his forehead, smoothing its wrinkles with a hasty movement, and then it fell heavily to his side; again his eyes met mine with their old, jaded air; a look in them such as I have seen in those of an animal when it is hemmed in on all sides, and every hope of freedom stifled into blankness.
               Such a look was in Martin Cross's eyes.
               A pause of a moment; then he resumed,—"Theer I wur born, an' growed up a honest an' hard-workin' lad; from mornin' to night I husked grain, an' ploughed fields, an' dug ditches, an' piled great, shinin' stacks o' hay, an' wur happy in my cottage wi' my lass an' a little child o' mine. Till one day. It wur, sur, when a rheumatic laid me flat i' th' bed, an' I came loike to die; fur months I couldna do a lick o' work.
               "Then it wur my lass an' th' child wur hungry; hungry in soight o' th' gentry folk, wi' theer feastin', an' theer birthdayin', an' theer merrymakin'!
               "Mester, what should I do when I came able-loike to stir, but taken my gun, an' go i' th' woods, an' shoot a few birds; then, turnin' round, I see as how th' young lord happened to be a comin' cross fields; gen he got close to me, he wur a cursin' me to drop my game; but I wouldna do it, an' told him so, too, an' told him he dare na lay a finger on it nur on me.
               "Thet night we didna go to bed hungry! But coom mornin', I wur put in jail; says they, I wur a poacher; an' after a toime when I comed out, my lass wur dead, an' i' th' ground.
               "Thet's goin' on six year ago. I bore up for th' sake o' th' little child o' mine, an' got work, an' took care o' th' little un. Till one day she died, too. Then seemed as how life wur bad, sur, moighty bad; seemed as how God-a-moighty hid his face from some folk, an' a'most tempted 'em to curse Him. Yo see, mester, I'd always happened to help her little feet along; I had kneeled down, an' tied th' strings in her little shoon, an' i' th' pinafur, an' I had off an' on twisted th' little curls; an' coom night, I had used to hold her i' my arms, an' lay her little head agen my cheek, an' feel as how life wur nowt without summat to live fur. An' yo see, sur, it's reyther hard on a mon to put all he lo'es under th' ground! Hard, hard; but——"
               A sudden break silenced the voice there, and its owner roughly brushed his sleeve across eyes that were wet and heavy in tears. Clearing his throat, he made an ineffectual attempt to proceed.
               "Never mind what follows," exclaimed his auditor, in tones of compassion, with features expressing the deep sympathy of a kindly nature. "I am satisfied with your story; it is all-sufficient."
               "Theer's nowt more to tell, sur; nowt more. I hadna th' heart to be to work theer sence, an' ha just been wanderin' heer an' theer, an' around. I wur out to New Suth Wales fur th' longest, too. But I want a settled place to be at peace-loike an' rest, mester, and I'm na one to shirk work, nur to sloight it."
               The two then moved away a pace, and for awhile conversed inaudibly.
               "Lucy," whispered Nell, "I'm half-way afraid of that man; he's so dirty, you know."
               Before I had time to respond to that original observation from my little sister, the sound of a whistle caused us to start impetuously, in joy that the train was approaching. Soon the glare of its head-light shone in the distance. The hissing of its iron breath was borne to us upon a sweep of wind, and the clang of a bell rolled into our ears above the snorting of the engine.
               The platform presented a scene of excitement and commotion.
               Our town of L—— boasted no inconsiderable population; continuously a stream of life was drifting backward and forward from its marts to the great cities beyond.
               Trade was thrifty, politics lively. Indeed, it had actually sent a member to the Lower House within the year, and in consequence thereof was anticipating a time when its petty glory should, as it were, take a stride into another century, leaving the towns around it to mumble on in their same old routine.
               
               There were motley groups here and there. Stray newsboys lurked about. Vendors of a few tawdry wares lingered in the expectation of discovering a late customer. Drivers of fly and hack were there, too, eying one another in sharp professional jealousy, and shuffling to and fro.
               On came the engine.
               I shrank from its great eye and hissing breath. What a monster it seemed, rushing, panting, as if frantic for prey! Lights swung brightly from the various compartments, making of the train a cheery object in its swift course on towards the station.
               There was a din, a rush, and a mighty stoppage.
               In the bustle and excitement of the time, we had forgotten Martin Cross, and when finally I turned to look for him he was nowhere visible. Concluding he had seized the opportunity as a favorable one for withdrawing, I dismissed him from my thoughts, and then perceived Walter bounding towards us. He was accompanied by a gentleman whose florid, genial countenance betokened him one of our best-esteemed county neighbors,—the Squire from Briarly Manor.
               As ever, our lad was in an abandon of spirits.
               "Why, Nell! Luce! I say, what brings you women-folks here! Halloo, Geoffrey, old fellow!"
               He wrung the latter's hand, kissed me, pinched Eleanor's cheek until she gave a queer little shriek, then bestowed upon her lips a hearty greeting.
               "I say, Luce, aren't you glad we've come at last? By George, I thought we would never get here! What with this thing, and the other, it's positively a miracle we have come at all. Lots of detentions, and so on. But what are you folks so solemn about? Bosh! can't you tell a fellow the news?"
               A rim of moonlight was tipping the earth with silver, as we stood, a merry, laughing group, upon the platform of L—— station that night in the budding month of May. I have recalled it many a time since.
               There were, afterward, eager questions to frame and answer, playful badinage to refute, sly jests to detect and comment upon,—when suddenly my gaze became attracted towards an elderly gentleman drawing near; beside him walked a young girl in gray dress, cloak, and hat,—all of the same sober coloring; a gauze veil was floating from the crown of the jaunty head-gear, and the breeze playing idly amid its folds tossed the frail covering about as a plaything. Both figures were very striking in appearance; the gentleman tall, handsome, but proud-faced; the girl was but a trifle below the medium height, yet nevertheless seemed a dainty little creature, whose features were exquisite modeling; she possessed, too, a gentle and high-born bearing.
               Walter whispered, "That's an uncommon pretty young thing, Luce. Wonder who she is! Came all the way in the same carriage; she hardly looked at me, though; and such eyes, too!" (This, while meditatively pulling a few straggling hairs upon his upper lip.)
               They soon passed us by, and so closely, the gray dress swept Geoffrey's knee, the gauze veil floated across his arm. The young lady's gloved hands were folded tightly one in the other; a gold-brown curl swept her cheek.
               Looking neither to the right nor left, she moved on with drooped eyelids; some deep melancholy seemed to have borne down upon that sweet face, and upon that bright young head; so young, too—young, and yet sorrowful!
               They moved on a yard or two beyond us, then stayed their progress at the obtrusive inquiry of a hackman proffering his conveyance. After a sentence or two from the gentleman, during which the words "village, abbey, Stanley," floated to our ears, the girl stepped quickly into the vehicle, her companion followed, the door closed with a bang, the driver, after a leer of professional triumph at his less fortunate brethren, cracked his whip, the horses darted forward, and the beautiful face with its burden of melancholy was borne from our gaze.
               Eleanor impulsively exclaimed, beating her hands together, "Walt, did you hear? They said something or other about Stanley Abbey; and maybe it's they who're going to live there; the butler and the maids have already come down, you known."
               "Do you really think," exclaimed the Squire, in his hale, hearty tone, "do you really think these folks are on their way to that old rookery? By the Lord Harry, if I wouldn't feel above my dinner in such an outlandish den! I believe I'd grow to aping logic, and philanthropy, and what not, and give over my hounds forever!"
               "W-h-e-w!" chimed in Walter; "there'd be a mess, a pretty mess. Squire."
               "I'd advise you, sir, not to think of 'aping logic,'" slyly observed our elder brother; afterwards adding in a graver tone, "surely then would we be overrun with tramps and poachers, who'd leave us not a partridge for a stray shot."
               "By the by," returned the other, "what of Poacher Bill? Has he given any trouble of late?"
               "Oh, nothing worth speaking of, if you except the fact of his changing the vicinity of his depredations to the neighborhood of Thorndale,—meaning perhaps to annoy Walter in a trifling way; the stable roof was discovered afire a day or two ago, and the scamp seen lurking in a neighboring thicket; but of course that is a mere bagatelle."
               "Well, young man," returned the Squire, growing indignantly red in the face, and taking a turn or two, with his hands in his pockets, "well, young man, you may blame yourself for all this trouble now coming in upon you. Long ago I predicted this!
               "Who ever heard of a sane man, when he nabs a fellow bringing down his best game (within sight of his own house, too)—who ever heard of a sane man, I repeat, simply reasoning with the small villain upon the dishonesty of his course; offering to give him—to give him—what game he craves, provided he'll mend matters by turning table, and laboring with the hands the Almighty gave him! Did that make him a jot better? Didn't he laugh in his sleeve at you, and didn't he, the next week, level one of your finest deer? And hasn't he taken advantage of your leniency all these months? And that time when the keeper nabbed him and gave him a sound thrashing, didn't he burn down your largest barn for it? And isn't he the means of losing you your groom by laying him up with this spell of rheumatism,—chasing after him through glen and bog, through mud and mire; in direct opposition to your wishes, of course, of course" (glaring benevolently at his target). "Ah! you're a fine young fellow with these philanthropical views, a very fine young fellow, 'pon my soul you are; but when you've lived as long as I have, you'll conclude it's folly to attempt the reform of poachers, or highwaymen, or politics,—or—or—men.
               "As for the ladies (God bless 'em!), they're much too good for us—much too good for us, and you'll live to tell me so yet."
               "A word in your ear, good sir," laughed Geoffrey, oddly amused at the other's flushed, indignant visage. "If you remember, that old saw is a goodly one; something to the effect that people in glass houses, etc. And as for Bill, I felt sorry for the poor fellow, and thought that a lift might benefit him where a kick would outlaw him forever. But as it is, I believe I have done; it seems a hopelessly aggravating case."
               "That's the way to talk, young man," exclaimed the other. "I'm downright glad you're coming to hard, plain sense at last!"
               After more badinage of the like kind, the Squire mounted his horse, and started homeward.
               Before our carriage moved away, I leaned out of the window to catch a glimpse of the scene.
               The engine had breathed its last gasp for the night; the great eye had flickered down into dulness; the train stood torpid.
               The town lights crossed and re-crossed one another as the streets went up or down hill. A church-bell came tolling across the air. How white and calm was the picture!
               Walter and Nell were jesting and laughing in glee. Geoffrey sat unusually grave and meditative.
               I drew back from the window at last, and, leaning upon the cushions, looked at those three who were my all in life; the eyes that thus scanned their faces were perhaps less critical than loving.
               I was proud of our elder brother. He had braved every trial so manfully, and toiled so hard to make us happy and comfortable.
               For miles around, folks said, no tenantry was so cheerful or thriving as his. The country-people passing him in the road deemed it an honor to win one of his rare smiles, and would call after him as he rode on, "A blessin' on thee, Meister Geffrey."
               Then, too, the children.
               But I forget. They were fast growing out of childhood. From his birth, Walter was pre-eminently the mother's boy of our flock. And he, the gay-hearted, would soon be one-and-twenty; while Eleanor—saucy, winsome lass—was barely eighteen.
               We rarely called her that name. An Eleanor should be a fair Saxon, tall, queenly, and dignified; whereas our little girl possessed not one of these majestic attributes. She was but a child, warm-hearted and impulsive; merry, too, as a garden butterfly. And I,—why, I was simply Miss Lucy Brent; a woman almost thirty years of age, with no beauty of face or form; a woman who had no dream or ambition of her very own for all the years to come; one who had wrapped her heart about sister and brothers, and who drew her sustenance from the fountains of their love; one who was content to let young hopes soar high, to hear the cymbals crash, the music play, and, simply stooping to pluck a wayside flower, to stand aside and let the triumphs roll on for others fairer, brighter, gayer.
               Well, I was content as God willed it.
               We were drawing near the village. Where in all England can be found a more glowing picture? I would not exchange my home in this North-county of Westmorland—this beautiful country of the lakes—for the glories of that fabled land of Utopia so eloquently described by Sir Thomas More.
               Who that has seen Ullswater would forget it?—there the mountains rise, grand and lofty, towering off into that ocean-blue ether with bold and swelling magnificence. Helvellyn and Stone Cross Pike (a bulwark of rock square in form) are monarchs of the host, striding away into space far, far above the wooded hill-brows embracing their feet in clusters of beauty. Next in my affection ranks Keswick; meadows border it round about, fringing its waters with slopes, and enticing it away into glens where shepherds dwell and dalesmen rove,—picturing a scene that no artist could well portray. Afterwards come the cliffs and gurgling freshness of Lodore waterfall. Windermere, too, is lovely; it is surrounded by wooded hills, and interspersed with tiny green islands where cows come to feed and sheep to browse; boats glide in and out, filled with tourists or artists, and pleasure-seekers; the water mirrors the sky above clearly, as if they indeed had clouds beneath their feet, and were sailing away upon dim stars; then, too, there is a background of mountains where every morning the mists roll up, the birds awaken, and where, with the dawn, the sun struggles for freedom.
               We who lived further coastward had not these bounties of Nature in which to revel, except when making excursions off into the interior; we had, though, the moorlands, the ocean, the cliffs, and the hills. Ay, it was a lovely scene, too; and that night I looked upon the fair English country from the fullness of a gladdened heart.
               We were nearing the village, for lights were beginning to shine ruddily amid the trees, and rocks stood out from the shore,—rocks at whose base came the soft, lapping sea with its murmuring voices; away in the offing darkly gleamed the outlines of a ship, and to our right the houses seemed fairy dwellings resting upon summits of green and gray, with their ruby lights twinkling as so many stars. Looking abroad, I could note the stray clumps of forest, glints of far-away pools, and farmsteads with their tiled roofs shining pale in the moon-rays; there was the moorland, with its dark-green furze patches rich in golden buds that were coming into bloom, and its splintery fingers of the gorse shooting upward.
               Soon the stones in the church-yard gleamed white upon us; and the little old church, and the houses behind in the village that twinkled upon their streets, and some late dogs that set up a bark, took their places in memory, and were destined to crowd full upon me, years and years afterwards.
               "There, you know I told you so," whispered Nell, clutching my sleeve in a spasm of delight. The night was growing in beauty. Silvered in the moonbeams that seemed to linger tenderly upon the old ruins, stood forth Stanley Abbey—an ancient, half-abandoned seat of the Chester family.
               We knew them by hearsay only,—a proud, stiff-necked race, bearing within their veins the very bluest blood of England.
               There was then a legend told of the manor (dim in my memory now, somewhat), dating its build prior to the days of King Henry the Eighth. Tradition even saith unhappy Katherine sped her steps to the place, abiding within its shelter for a time.
               When her grim tyrant espoused Anne Boleyn, and laid his iron hand upon the home of monk and nun, that fair Norman abbey was constituted a dependency of the crown. Thus it remained until, with the march of time, there began waging that struggle of rose against rose, which for thirty years ran the fields of England crimson with gore.
               In the many battles that ensued, a certain noble Chester gained hard-earned laurels as a valiant Yorkist; and upon the "Bloody Meadow" of Tewksbury, when the fortunes of the house of Lancaster were finally crushed, he received from his sovereign the fiefs and demesnes of Stanley Abbey as an entail for all future time.
               I never attempted to peer into the mysteries of that legend, but was content to gaze vaguely up at those turrets and towers, to invest them with the mellow tints of romance, and to believe that for hundreds of years they had thus raised their heads in solemnity to the sky.
               The old gray pile had served as a landmark in my past. When a child, I had been wont to spend hours within it, and would then coax the mumbling janitor to tell me tales of its former splendor, when it had been fitted up as a manor, and lords and ladies had thronged beneath its roof.
               When a maiden, dreaming my dreams of the future, I haunted its quiet. When a woman, and awakened to the sorrows and realities of life, I yet cherished an affection for the abbey that since has never waned or faded.
               It was built in the form of a rectangle, with an oval tower at each angle, and turrets springing irregularly here and there, as if unwittingly dropped by fairy fingers.
               A garden, somewhat dilapidated, where were broken fountains, and alley-paths, and ruined statues, led in from the ponderous gates. Within hall, bed-chamber, and drawing-room the appointments were of mediæval pattern. Faded and dusty through ages of gloom, the place would perhaps start in wonderment at the intrusion upon it of those aliens to the race whose ancestors had ruled there so haughtily.
               I concluded them strangers coming merely as tenants to the dear old abbey; perhaps in my mind there was some small resentment towards that proud-faced gentleman and the girl clad in gray; for when Nell called, "Look, oh, look!" I gazed outward with a dash of temper on my tongue, to note that lights were shining in hall and saloon, and that attendants were bustling hither and thither with baggage. The unfamiliar scene lay not long before us. With a vigorous crack of the whip, our coachman drove his horses ahead, and in a brisk canter we had soon left the abbey lights behind, and were turning into the park at Wildmoor.
               My home! My beautiful, wild home, deep down in the heart of the purple moorlands!
               We halted at the lodge gate,—our pretty, Gothic-built lodge standing amidst a cluster of trees. The old lodge keeper came out to open the gates, and the carriage, driving into the park, went rapidly whirling up the avenue. On either side stretched the grounds,—glade, hollow, and glen deep in moss and leaves, and sheltered by an array of trees whose green banners were flung boldly to the winds. On an early morning the deer would be feeding in the thickets, and hare and rabbit chasing shadows from the sward; the sound of the woodman's axe would be ringing out upon the air, and in heaps the felled timber rising higher and higher. The undergrowth was rich and luxuriant, revealing here and there a berry of scarlet freshness that was thrusting its bloom into existence; trails of ivy went twining up the trunks of trees, but in shaded dell or weird hollow there was scarce sunlight sufficient to illumine the half-darkness or tinge with deeper dye the gold and green of leaf or shrub.
               There was no bed so soft to me as the velvet of that moss, no music so sweet as the twitter of those birds; and that array of trees fought for my delectation many a hard-earned contest with the winds. Boreas oft laid their dead and dying in myriads upon the ground; some young and fair, green in youth and bloom, but others faded, yellow with age. Zephyr, though, was wont to play about those stern old warriors in maiden grace and tenderness; she wooed them from their meditations; and when the glow from a setting sun gilded branch and trunk of oak, fir, and lime, it was a brave and valiant picture to scan.
               We swept into the open gate dividing park from garden, thence caught a glimpse of the mansion rising dark and grand upon us, with the moonlight falling over its mullioned windows and shooting silvery stars upon the terrace-walks below. It was built in that style of the Elizabethan era,—an old, baronial mansion, before whose front crouched a couple of stone lions bristling in anger and defiance. The garden was extensive; statues of hounds and stags were peering from out the flowers, and from those hawthorn bushes pressing closely the iron railings; in a bed of heliotrope, a quaint sun-dial stood guard.
               In olden days, Wildmoor too had been a great place. How it must have looked when there the hunters gathered for the chase, and attendants in sparkling liveries, and horses scenting the smell of bog and fen, gathered around; when ladies of lustrous countenance rustled down the steps in silks and gay attire; when gallants, shining in knee-buckles and golden orders, whispered in accents low and courteous, and played the suing lover!
               It must have gleamed fair and stately then, joying in a life all replete with mirth, cheer, and hospitality.
               The hall was large, full of knights in armor, and hung with shields and banners,—grim effigies of dead and gone days. Oaken beams supported the ceiling; the staircase was of oak also.
               Then, the furniture was but an emblem of past glory, being worn and time-eaten. Geoffrey was contemplating the renovation of each apartment, he said: so my impatience at its dinginess was somewhat allayed, while looking forward to a time when Wildmoor should don new, choice robes.
               But, taken at its worst, it was a beautiful, cheery home, well loved by me and mine.
               These pages are prosy and rambling, no doubt; if my pen has traveled slowly, though, it is because I love to linger over a description of our homestead, too apt to forget that my affection misplaces other claims.
               That night of Walter's home-coming was a sacred one to me. To have all my dear ones once again beneath the old roof was a source of prayer and thankfulness indeed.
               We were weaving such visions of the lad's future,—Geoffrey and I; and for years had been wont to spend hours together (when the others had retired) to contemplate their portion of life, which, we resolved, should bear as little of care and sorrow as we elder ones could ward from it. My brave, strong-hearted elder brother; he was the one spar from my wreck of Youth. His face, to my thinking, was beautiful because of its rare nobility, but, oh, rugged, and old, and care-worn far, far beyond his years. I see him now as upon that night,—tall, grave, and tender, with that tenderness so far more gentle, touching, and pathetic than that of a woman, so far more simple, deep, and grand.
               God bless thee, thou brave one!
               And Walter—my boy—gay, blithe, and jovial; ever ready with a light word and a laugh; of no great depth of intellect, true, but with a whole-souled nature, and a warm friend to the county-folk for miles around. God has been very good to me, I think; how should I have borne to live were it not for my two great-hearted boys?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "'Tis always morning somewhere, and above
                           The awakening continents, from shore to shore,
                           Somewhere the birds are singing evermore."
                        
                     
                     MRS. BROWNING.
                  
               
               DEAR journal, I wish you could tell me if the world is really glad and joyous!
               Now, when it is the child-month of the year, May, that trips along, floating with hair-wefts of tangled gold, and cheeks rivaling the tint of crimson wood-berries, it seems a veritable realm of fairy-land. In the meadows flower-cups are brimming over with dew, and in the forest-glades birds and violets are awakening from sleep.
               Many an ice-bound streamlet, too, has burst its fetters, and goes leaping, brawling on through valley, slope, and glen.
               What a glory should encircle the human life, when all over our earth joy-bells are ringing a praise and thanks-giving! Ah, it is sweet to live; I pity those who are closing their eyes in death; how I pity them!
               The year is young and glad; yes, it is in its youth and promise.
               And I, who feel the tide of spring pulsing in my veins, joy to think that, like the year, I too am in my youth and promise.
               But I dare say I should have forgotten that this is my birthday, were it not that in the morning my eyes opened upon a homely figure gazing down upon me with a sort of sadness in its eyes, and a bunch of flowers in its hand.
               Janet it was,—my old nurse, who, by virtue of her many years of guardianship, had come to be regarded as quite an authority in papa's household; therefore, by a natural sequence, she has grown to be excessively fond of her own way.
               Not with me, though. Oh, dear, no; I was always "such a cross little thing," they maintained, that in every battle (and there were many) Janet was forced to leave me victor, flaunting my banners in triumph.
               Well, to begin all over again (as the children say), she came to my bedside this morning, and, seeing my eyes unclose, stooped to lay her nosegay on my breast.
               "The last o' May, Miss Hope!"
               I laughed out. They were such pretty roses, too; pink, white, and red, with tufts of grass and heather twined among them. But indeed I couldn't help it. My poor old dear looked so odd and solemn-visaged, and a tear that had trickled from her eye clung to the tip of her nose with an uncertain tenure.
               She bestowed upon me a glance of keen scrutiny, in doubt, perhaps, as to the nature of my mirth; but remarked, "Anyhow, it's best to be merry over it, child; tears come soon enough, gracious knows."
               As if there is anything to cry over in the birthday of eighteen!
               I did not pretend to get up; but lay quite still while Janet took from the wardrobe a white muslin dress and a blue sash. While she was thus employed, I noticed that her face had grown so much thinner and paler, and that her gray hair was here and there revealing a line of silver.
               It touched me so to see this; and the memory of what she has been to me for all the years of my life swept suddenly across my thoughts with a strong gust of emotion.
               "Janet," I called, raising myself among the pillows, and leaning my head on my hand, "don't you find me a far better child now? I haven't been a 'trial' to you yet as I used to be, have I?" sinking my voice here, and smiling at that old familiar phrase which has not fallen upon my ears in a long time.
               You must know, journal mine, the portals of schooldom have but recently unclosed upon me, and it has been long since I have had Janet to scold me for my failings.
               "To me—a trial to me, dear? You're my own blessed young leddy, good as good can be! No, not to me, Miss Hope, love!"
               
               "But tell me," I persisted, "like a good old darling, have I been a very great trial to anybody yet?"
               She was eying me with some tenderness, while weighing the respective merits of blue or pink in ribbons.
               "To tell the truth," said she, "I do worry, Miss Hope, dear, when you aren't kind to Martha, poor lass; and she that thinks a power o' you; and then says I to myself, 'Look a-here, Janet, what ever are you a-goin' to do to patch up matters in this here house? Supposin' that child's blessed mother, who's dead and gone, should be a lookin' through the clouds, and sees her temper gettin' the better o'her, what ever 'll she think? And what 'll she say to poor old Janet when they come to meet in t'other world?'
               "And then I shake my head, and feel bothered-like; 'pears like we're never goin' to see any more happiness now; your papa——"
               "Don't stop," I said, disappointed, for I wanted to learn something of my father, who is a terrible stranger to me, and—and, oh, journal, I fear I can never brave the sternness of his face, which seems to harden into stone as the days wear away.
               Janet sighed.
               "Your papa 'll never get over that blow, Miss Hope. And I'm that heart-broke over him; but what ever is to become of a pretty young leddy like you, stuck here in this old rattletrap of a house, I'm yet to see. Lord, Lord, to think of what a grand leddy your poor mamma was, with no end of fine dressin', and such grand young gentlemen a courtin' her! What ever 'll become of you, I do wonder!"
               "Do you think," I returned, with some scorn, "that I want any of your grand gentlemen about me?"
               "Of course you ought to have 'em! But don't look mad! When you was a toddlin' thing, Miss Hope, you used to beat me with your fists, so I suppose I couldn't stop you now. But what sets you to thinkin' of your temper?"
               "Because" (very penitently and lowly) "I'm going to turn over a new leaf."
               And at this great scheme of mine my nurse simply laughed. I was vexed, of course.
               "You needn't laugh," I pouted; "there's nothing wonderful in that."
               But, alas, perhaps she is right! I am constantly turning over new leaves, and my book of life seems still in a fair way of being blotted and tear-stained to the very finis.
               Again I lay back among the pillows, and, feeling vexed, but pretending to be lazy, turned my face to the wall. Janet then threw wide the shutters, adjusted the curtains, and finally, walking away, left me to sad reflection in the sweet hush of the early morning. I must have fallen asleep, though, for, a long time after, the clock struck the hour of nine. What an idle girl was I this morning, truly! And papa breakfasts at nine o'clock, and maintains all the former ceremony and exactitude in regard to my presence during meal-time; it must not happen again that he finds me tardy, journal dear!
               With a gay, brave heart, however, eighteen sprang out of bed, and, dressing herself quickly, ran down to the morning-room. Fortunately, it was vacant. The postman had been his rounds, for there beside papa's plate lay several letters. One seemed unusually large; in my eagerness to clutch some fragment from the outside world, I took it from its place and turned it over and over. I couldn't possibly have peeped inside, but the wish to do so was strong in my mind; of course, journal, for the world I wouldn't have peeped, but the temptation was terrible while balancing that envelope in its yellow garb upon my forefinger. With a sigh at last I laid it down, and, turning to the window, anathematized the rooks swinging outside in the elms.
               There was a stir behind me. Papa came in; Joel, the butler, followed; presently Janet was pouring the coffee.
               The letters were overlooked; the covering torn hastily off that one which had excited my curiosity. It was a cruel moment when I saw papa start, hold it tremulously up to the sunlight, then crumple it in his hand; his face twitched—once, twice; Janet set aside the urn nervously, started towards him, and, as she did so, papa cried out, in a strange, hushed voice, "The glory of my name hath indeed departed!" then fell down, striking the floor with outstretched hands.
               
               Between them—Janet and Joel—they raised him; he was white and speechless. "It's the heart," said Janet; "the London doctor told him so when he was first took." I was shocked; kneeling beside that still form, I could only sob aloud, and call piteously on God to spare me my father.
               They were bathing his face with water, and fanning him; but I could see no token of returning life in the cold features, and so wept on there beside him.
               "Poor little one—poor little one!" murmured those two faithful servants.
               In a half-hour, though, papa had quite recovered, and was standing beside the mantel, holding the letter, with the outer covering torn away, true, but still unopened, before him. It seemed one of those foreign-looking epistles which make a person's heart thump with the vision of a strange postmark, possibly ominous of mighty or startling news. Oh, how I waited in sickening heart-sorrow for the result when its contents should have been perused, perhaps commented upon!
               In vain did I wait; for soon but a heap of ashes was scattered upon the grate. Papa, taking a match, had applied it to the letter, and in a trice the red flames were licking away its life.
               My breakfast was spoiled; with a choking sensation, and an effort to gulp down the tears, I sat there, toying with a spoon, and dawdling over the rolls; but not a morsel passed my lips. When the meal had been silently accomplished, and we rose from table, I buried myself within the precincts of my own apartment. Dear little room; white curtains swing at the windows, and upon the ledge in a china vase stands Janet's nosegay.
               It is eminently a girl's sanctum. Those ancient pieces of barbarism formerly serving as bed, toilet-table, etc., have all been removed, and the chamber wears but a cool, cheerful aspect, in great contrariety to those other rooms that are so solemn and mysterious throughout this abbey.
               The hours are whiled away pleasantly enough, when I come to sit here at my window and talk to you, journal dear.
               No antique, frowning four-poster wearies the eye; no prim, stiff backed chairs are ranged about.
               A malachite desk stands beside my window (at which I am now writing), and a Madonna from Murillo gazes down upon me with dark, sweet eyes. You cannot know what a window is mine, hardly; there is a road winding away up into the hills, and beyond that a ridge of broken hollows that steals off into the valley where the moorland commences; the lonely, the beautiful moors! A great, purpling flat, lighted up by crimson gleams or patches of brown and gold; I shall love it, I know I shall, and very dearly, too. Then, nearer still, is the bonny open sea; how passionately the surf meets the shore! This is a grand country; grand and beautiful.
               But this morning I had no heart to appreciate it; no, no. I sat at my desk with face buried in my hands, and, I do believe, cried for some time. Perhaps an hour had passed thus, when my door opened, and some one, stepping over the threshold, said, in a faltering tone, "If you please, miss, will you have your pelisse fitted now?"
               Have my pelisse fitted, indeed! That was a narrow-minded, barbarous interruption upon a dash of tears.
               The figure of a girl stood hesitatingly before me; it was a tall, slender figure which always carries its head low, its eyes drooped, and that rarely speaks, and then with but sparse language. Once the face might have been a handsome one; now it is marred by the presence of a terrible scar upon the temple. The complexion is too pale, also, for beauty. At times, though, I have seen Martha flush a deep scarlet; then it is the gash upon her temple flares into a burning red,—seeming, to my fancy, a living, gaping wound. It causes me a shudder, and so it is I have become imbued with one of those unaccountable prejudices which very youthful females are famous for encouraging. Poor lass; she, nevertheless, goes the greatest lengths to secure my favor; morning and evening it is her hand that adorns my dressing-stand with flowers; her taste ever devising some fanciful accessory to my toilet. If I mislay gloves, handkerchiefs, or books (being careless, it seems my normal condition,—this, of constantly instituting search for missing articles), if I express a wish within human compass, or repine and chafe at my lot, it is by some unobtrusive intervention on her part that the lost is found, or that frowns are spirited away. Yet it annoys me to discover, at times, the girl lurking around, in readiness to obey my slightest behest,—a veritable Puck to my rôle of Titania; and it saddens me, too, to glance at her young, pale face drooping over the needle, day in, day out, with scarcely a probability of seeing the lips unclose, save to answer a query.
               It saddens me, yet—unlucky girl that I am—it sometimes rouses my wrath. As a general thing I don't affect gloom; bad and wicked as they say the world is, I love it dearly; bad and wicked as it may some day prove to me, still it can never be aught than beautiful. I am resolved to extract as many of its sweets as I may, and while my tree of life is turning into bloom, to wait patiently for the fruit to ripen ere I pluck it, golden, from the bough. The wiseacres would shake their learned heads, and warn me to be not too sure; the fruit, they say, will either fall rotting to the ground, or pall upon my lips; but I am so young—so young! Can I help watching with eagerness the purple blooms bending towards me? Can I help it that I love so dearly Life and God's world, where are birds, flowers, and woods, and true, true hearts?
               No, no; youth is to me a brave, bright goddess, and though my experience has been so far but a dismal one, still, I dream of another time when sorrow and grief shall be only as types of the past.
               With an impatient brow, I assented to Martha's request, and stood up to be sacrificed upon the altar of fashion. Oh, dear! it was very wearisome to have my shoulders thumbed, my neck cut into, and my arms dandled up and down; wearisome to such an extent that soon I began to feel myself a highly-injured individual; straightway waxing so violent that of necessity my spleen must needs vent itself upon some unfortunate, then and there.
               Now, journal dear, don't scold, like a darling; now please don't; but what do you think I did? I'm a bad, naughty creature,—so heartlessly bad! Well, in my fit of irritation, said I to poor, sad Martha, "Oh, what does make you so cross and disagreeable? Your face gives me the horrors; do try to be pleasant when you're obliged to be near me, won't you?"
               In a heap the folds of silk fell to the floor; a tear burned upon my bare neck, and the girl, with head drooped in her hands, went hurrying from the room.
               Janet, in her busy rounds with the subordinate doomed to do duty wielding a dust-brush, had entered the apartment but a moment or two before. She heard my angry speech, faced round upon me sharply, but said nothing.
               "I do wish," exclaimed I, patting my foot upon the floor, "I do wish she was safely out of the house. Where and how, Janet, did you find her, pray? I don't like her one bit."
               My nurse was in the act of fitting a couple of pins into the cushion; she arranged them so as to fill out a pattern diamond-shaped, then stepped closer, bestowing upon me one of her queer, half-melancholy glances, which generally produce the effect of evoking my laughter. A reproof was lurking behind that solemn gaze; but, estimating it at full cost, I knew there would be nothing in its element to cause one tremor, so proceeded to balance myself comfortably, and to gaze into my old dear's face with a slight audacity of manner that apparently troubled her not a whit. Close came she to me, and, stooping low, whispered, "Miss Hope, do you know who the lass is?"
               I shook my head, smiling at the absurdity of her question.
               She stooped lower yet. "She's the lass as saved your brother's life!"
               "Janet!"
               I started, clutching her hand, and being scarcely able to repress a cry of alarm.
               "Yes," continued she, with an air of indignation—"yes, and you've been unkind to her all along, and she that don't deserve it."
               "Oh, Janet, Janet!"
               It was in the deepest contrition I hid my face from sight; and then I stammered,—
               "But I didn't mean to be cross; I'll do anything to make her forget my selfishness. I'll beg her pardon so humbly,—indeed, indeed I will. Oh, why did you not tell me?"
               My face was making itself ugly in readiness for a cry, but the tears choked themselves bravely back.
               
               "That's the way with you, child. One minute you tear a body to pieces, and the next, you'll cut your heart out to serve 'em. There'll be no begging o' pardons, though, Miss Hope; the poor thing's wellnigh heart-broke at your way, but, for all that, you'll not beg her pardon, miss."
               "Does papa know her?" asked I, beneath my breath. She shook her head, and——
               Just then there was a sound from the garden. It was a moan, or a sort of stifled shriek, that made me turn sick with the horror of conjecturing what it might portend.
               Upon the instant, Janet and I had cleared the hall, and were out in the grounds, making a way towards the sound.
               Oh, heavens, how my brain whirled!
               Before the statue of a ruined Psyche stood the girl Martha, with countenance startling in its pallor, with eyes wild and frightened, and with hands locked tightly together. She was gazing at the figure of a man which was then retreating towards the servants' hall.
               "What is this? What has happened?" cried Janet.
               No answer.
               Then, rapidly passing, she sped on to the stranger, and, placing herself before him, inquired the reason of his intrusion upon her master's premises.
               "Who are you?" asked she, authoritatively.
               "Who are I, mestress?" he returned, doffing his hat. "I be Martin Cross, an' I coom from my mester, Mr. Breant o' Weildmure. He sent me heer wi' this writin' to th' genelmon; an' if yo'll be so keind as to gi' it him, I'm your sarvant, mestress. I be th' mester's groom,—th' mester o' Weildmure."
               He delivered into her keeping a sealed envelope, directed in a bold, masculine hand.
               I remember how vigorously plain it seemed, with no flourishes, no bravados of ink to challenge one's admiration. I like any handwriting better devoid of those artistic strokes and fine polishes of pen.
               It was strange that, as he spoke, the man stood eying me askance and with moody brow.
               I wonder what there was in my features to call upon his face that expression of storm and resentment.
               Have I ever seen him before?
               "What have you said to the lass?" bluntly questioned Janet, pointing to Martha.
               "Me, mestress! If yo'll believe me, I arksed th' gerl to gi' him th' writin', an' thet wur all on't; sumthin' be th' matter wi' her, I'm afeard; she took on loike."
               Janet moved from him, and with tender hand drew Martha back to the house. When safe within the shelter of her own chamber, the latter sank upon a chair, shuddering as if from cold or fear.
               "What ever is it, poor child?" whispered my kindly nurse.
               "Oh, Janet," was the answer, "I have had so much trouble! Such hard trouble!"
               "We all must have our share o' that, dear lass. If trouble's dark upon you now, think o' the Father above, who is a goin' to treat you as a shorn lamb and make the way a shinin' path before you!"
               "I know his goodness, friend; I know it."
               The poor sad creature spoke in a voice that went direct to my heart. I felt ashamed of myself, and so sorry for her, and so humbled before her, that I could have cried for sheer sympathy.
               "Do bear up," continued Janet; "ah, do, like a dear. You know, Martha, this is only a school for us poor creeturs, and we are the scholars, and the Father's a teachin' o'us his way. The good Lord trod the hard path himself once; He knows as it's hard, and bitter, and heart-breakin' like. But at the end He pays us back, and we're not to know as much as the Teacher, lass, for where'd be the use o'learnin'? Bear up; ah, do!"
               "Never mind me, please, Janet. H-he—the man—he gave me such a shock; he came upon me all unbeknown, and——"
               I heard no more, for just there I went from the room with a strange, new pang at my heart; it gnawed so keenly, forcing me to give attention to its cry of woe.
               What is this sorrow she carries upon her young shoulders, I wonder? Must even the humblest bear his burden and bewail his desolation?
               Unable to content myself in any one spot, I roamed the abbey over, dragged through luncheon somehow, and managed the afternoon; until, haunting the upper stone balustrade, and catching a view of an ancient church, and a column or two from a graveyard beside it, the insane desire seized me to venture thither and prowl like a ghoul among the cross-bones.
               Yes, at once those columns decided me; not that my particular delectation consists in gravitating towards headboards or gravestones, but at the moment a thought struck me that I might wander from tomb to tomb, reading the names thereon graven, and at least give myself the satisfaction of ascertaining the names of former residents of this dead-and-asleep country.
               Quite a fortnight has elapsed since our coming, yet not a whilom traveler has plodded along in the road, nor has the sound of a wheel grated over the ruts. The strange man who appeared in the garden this morning was the first connecting link with the world around us.
               The burial-place proved an ancient one. Some of the inscriptions looked to be centuries old, and were faded almost out of sight and memory. Others, again, glittering in letters freshly gilded and carved upon shafts of pillared marble, proclaim the fact that yet some mortals are above ground,—left to beautify the dreams of those quiet sleepers.
               I am glad everybody is not quite dead. But I wonder where they live,—these people whose traces were to be found in a respectable nosegay placed here and there, or in a wreath of ivy suggesting a tolerable amount of remembrance.
               I thought over to myself some queer fancies, then laughed aloud at a funny old tomb that bore on top an angel with spreading wings. Poor little thing! it wanted to fly away, and could not flap a pinion.
               I walked up close to it, and proceeded to satisfy any little curiosity feminine nature might be supposed to nourish in regard to aforesaid angel.
               It annoyed me so,—that image which stood so far above, gazing aloft with the expression of a saint, and as if it would not deign to glance upon mortal sinner below.
               I glowered at it, and was fairly learning to hate statuary. There it stood, with a foot poised on the topmost pinnacle, the other launching irrelevantly into ether, and an upward look of longing in its eyes towards those great and golden portals beyond. When I die, I don't want any reluctant angels bestriding my tomb; let them fly away, if unwilling to keep guard over my lowly head: better the birds should perch above it, singing me into dreams so beautiful that even the grave would seem a couch of brightness.
               I had had enough of the tiny marble form, and so looked away at the church.
               The grass beneath my feet was waving and tossing, the thrushes singing overhead, and myself fast lapsing into forgetfulness of time and place. I could no longer resist the temptation of that waving grass, so sank childishly down amid its billows, eying the birds above me, and the evening light shaded by a screen of branches, and faint bits of sky straggling in between them.
               But over and above all these things, the sorrowful, hunted eyes of that poor girl at home peered in at me; try as I might, they would not be banished, and before long I found myself bursting into a storm of tears.
               "It's no use; life isn't so grand and beautiful after all; I'm unhappy, do what I will to seem otherwise." Thus prosed temper, while reason in vain endeavored to resume sway.
               "It was cruel of Janet not to have told me. Oh, my fair, glorious brother; as if I wouldn't have gone down on my knees to serve the one who was so faithful to you!"
               And I cried bitterly for a long time, while the thrushes, overhead, stooped in wonderment at me, and forgot, in kindly sympathy, to pipe their songs. For a long time I stirred not from my bed upon the ground.
               In sad contrast to this present existence, came floating over me the memory of that far-away past, against which I had chafed and lamented as a fate than which no more miserable lot could be ordained to mortal; now, I would give worlds to know again its peace, its fairness!
               Why does God create man thus? We ever sigh for a brighter toy, but when the one in our possession is snatched suddenly away, and a golden jewel substituted, like importunate children we will have it not, but straightway way dash our heads against the wall in vain entreaty for the old and hackneyed bauble!
               "Yes," I sobbed, "I am very, very miserable; papa does not love me; nobody loves me. All my life it will be a fiery trial for those who have to live with me."
               And yet—and yet—poor, poor papa! Poor, noble face! He is a man cold in manner, but, oh! not in heart; no, no! The world and pride have made him what he is; the world, which, they warn me, is cold and cruel,—a very scorpion to sting a wound into scathing bitterness. My papa's fate,—a man who has never stooped to mean action; a good, a noble man,—it lashes me into rebellion, angry rebellion, when I ponder over it. Day after day he is in his study, poring over papers and manuscripts. Sometimes I ask myself if I may ever reach that far-away world in which he dwells; in deep and bitter sorrow do I ask of myself this question; it is a hard and joyless existence when one is young, loving, and gay; will it always be thus? Be sure, this manner of living is bitter to my heart. I love my father so; and if his brow would but unbend, or his eyes take on a softer hue, it would draw me to his side, to plead, to crave his affection as the only solace my life can reap; but he glances upon me with cold, set brow, and speaks to me in tone so chill, it freezes my impulse, and at once I am dumb and can falter not a word.
               Perhaps if, like other children, I had grown up at his knee, some crumb of love might now nourish me. One may never steel his nature to childhood's artless prattle, they say; but, alas, forever has that stage of life passed from me! Heighho! I must drag my feet over the world's highway in solitude, sometimes lingering, possibly, to peer into my neighbor's window, and there to note family-groups joying at the hearthstone. I have lived, even thrived, upon dreams so far, and doubtless will go down to my grave with but shadows serving the place of substance. How different life might have been! How I used to plan and dream of the future! Ah, well, we possess no control over circumstances. God help us all! we do not fashion our destinies as we do our garments.
               Eighteen should bear a lighter heart than do I on this May day. All the morning have I tried to cheat it into believing myself happy; but I broke down in the churchyard, and sobbed out bitterly to those soughing trees, and to the gleams of sky.
               I remember long ago, when a very little girl, how my anniversaries used to come and go with nobody, excepting my dear old nurse, ever to say, "Many happy returns o' the day."
               Over and over again has she told me that old story, until I've quite learned it by heart; and whilst lying in the grass this afternoon it all came back to me, and I knew nothing of the present.
               There was a little playmate for me, now and then, in that long ago—my brother Bertie. Before his coming into the world, three baby daughters had been born in that grand old homestead down in ——shire: one after another, though, they filled tiny graves in the churchyard. For papa, with the coming of his son, a new existence seemed budding into promise; long-unused apartments were thrown wide to the sunlight; guests came and went; their silken attire rustled along hall and staircase which for many a month had habited only with gloom and dust; in feasting and revelry sped the days away; and under the fairest star of fortune my brother Herbert (escaping the fate of his tiny predecessors) was hailed as the child of gladness.
               His rosy months crept into a year, two, three years, and, with the bud of life seemingly destined to expand into a gorgeous flower, papa's heart-strings grew and twined around the child until love strong as his passed into proverb. Five summers had brightened the gold on the little one's tresses when I was born.
               Alas! my birthday was the day that made my mother an angel in heaven.
               She lived but long enough to look upon her child, murmuring, "Let her name be Hope—my Hope;" and so, as I came into the world bringing no joy to any heart, but rather heralding the messenger of sorrow, they turned me with bitter thoughts from my father's presence, delivering me, a white bundle in Janet's arms, to the keeping of my mother's aunt who resided upon the Continent. This aunt Rhoda was a solemn, punctilious lady, originating strict theories of decorum to distract her existence; with her and Janet, banished from my English home, I have spent my childhood; not quite a happy childhood, for I used often to wonder, with a dim, sad sort of wonder, of the things lacking in my life when other children came under my notice; children sheltered within the love of fathers and mothers, gathered safely beneath the roof-tree of home!
               My aunt Rhoda was a lady rather given to holding herself aloof from common mortals, inasmuch as family pride had stiffened her entire aspect, moral as well as physical. Daily, during specified hours, she was wont to put me through certain paces, as a jockey might have done a favorite horse; in order, she explained, that some future time I might become a properly-behaved young person; but no torture of the Dark Ages could have roused such a spirit of abhorrence within me as was awakened during those specified hours.
               I used to be thinking of the grand old trees waiting to be climbed, or the butterflies wooing me to give chase, in utter contradistinction to those theories promulgated by the grave lady. Sometimes, too, I would plead for a doll to bear me company; this was peremptorily refused. "The child must not dawdle over stupid toys; she must learn dignity, self-possession."
               But Janet, unable to resist my tears and entreaties, smuggled a staring puppet into the nursery, which was received with open arms, carried to bed every night, kissed tenderly every morning, and secretly nursed during the day.
               I have it yet; a battered toy now, but it is cherished still for old times' sake. Now that I've grown up, of course a doll is out of the question; but, ah me! I fear the woman's heart is much akin to that gay, blithe one of the child. It, too, craves a plaything; for many a day have I been sighing for a womanly toy, and thus is it I have come to be writing a journal. It shall be friend, confidante, counselor; for some length of time, indeed, has it been my darling wish to store up the sweet visions that come to me, as, no doubt, they come to every maiden in the noontide of her bloom; to whisper my dreams and fancies into an ear where they will ever remain sacred. Dear old heart, we will lean upon one another, faithful always; you mustn't scold, though, and grow cross and naughty, journal dear, for then I wouldn't like you—no, not one bit.
               Time passed on in the gloom of that French château; my years counted seven when papa came over from England, bringing Bertie with him. I scarcely remember the incidents of that visit, but this much comes back to me over memory's wave.
               To my childish fancy, papa's demeanor seemed icy and repellent; I shrank from him; no entreaties could induce me to raise my head from Janet's apron, or so much as approach him, until Bertie coaxed me out for a romp,—winning my love by his gentleness of manner and glorious beauty of person. Then a brief period of happiness set in. I dare say, for the two years we children passed together, never was a blither, merrier pair. Many were the scrapes into which we plunged headlong; but if there was any punishment to be administered, or fault to be corrected, it usually fell to my lot to bear the full burden. I do not know how it happened, but when I was condemned to that bane of a child's existence, imprisonment in a darkened chamber, my brother would be sporting outside in the sunshine, tossing fruit from the orchard trees, or lying upon the haystack to inhale its sweet perfume, or, flinging pebbles into the river's bosom, would be bidding them sail out to sea. But when at last my prison was unbarred, it would be Bertie's hand that led me forth into the light again, Bertie's voice that had pleaded my release, and Bertie's kisses that wiped away my angry tears.
               Two years passed thus, and then papa suddenly appeared to convey us over to England.
               How my heart throbbed at the prospect! I could have fallen on my knees at his feet, with joy at the kindness that would allow me to enter within the charmed home-circle. I would see my mother's grave; I would twine there flowers, bright and fresh, to show her that a little child even could love an angel in heaven. I was but nine years; my fancies were quaint, but they were sincere.
               So, trembling with alternate joy and fear, I appeared at the Hall—my father's homestead—an alien from its old memories and associations. The rooms were so grand, so stately; the portraits so stern, so antique! I searched in vain for a face I yearned to look upon; there was no picture of my mother save in the hearts of those who loved her. I was as one bewildered in a foreign country; strange faces gazed upon me at every turn, strange voices fell upon my ear. Through the dim rooms I moved with a hushed awe upon my lips; Bertie could not call a laugh to my voice, save when we stole forth into the sunlight; he chided, he mocked these fears, but I felt then as if an iron hand was tightening over me, shadowing all the future with relentless grasp. At night, for hours I would lie awake, wondering in my childish fashion over those things in the past of which I had no knowledge; dreaming dreams of the future, and the happy destiny that I tried to cheat myself into believing would fall to Bertie and me.
               Two weeks only did I remain in that English home; for in disgrace I was exiled to a region that seemed sere and bleak as the far Siberia. One day, papa having ridden away to a neighboring town, I resolved to gratify a secretly-cherished desire of my heart by entering the library and exploring its hitherto "Veiled Mokanna." In the midst of my pleasing researches, Bertie triumphantly burst the door, arrayed in warrior habiliments (relics of some grim ancestor's soldier-life), and, for a time, marched me valiantly to and fro, now charging upon me with hilarious shouts, now pinning me to the wall at the point of a paste-board sword. Finally, he sprang upon the table, and harangued me for half an hour upon the necessity of my heart's blood, even, being spilled for him—my superior officer. Some manuscripts were lying upon the table, with an uncovered inkstand beside them. The youthful orator, to impress his inferior with an abundant conviction of the latter's manifold requirements, enthusiastically stamped his foot whilst thundering in the deepest bass voice he could muster, "Above all, I command you to be brave; if you're a coward"—but here a foot came down with emphasis, overturning the inkstand; when, in dismay, I endeavored to wrench aside the manuscripts, they were but a mass of ruin.
               Bertie's face grew white with terror. "Papa will never forgive me; what shall I do? what shall I do?" And he fled the apartment in an agony of consternation.
               Quickly I ran, found a cloth, came back to the library, and was busily engaged in sopping up the sea of ink, when a step resounded along the hall, and papa entered. My first impulse was to thrust my hands, with the guilty cloth, behind me. He uttered an exclamation of impatience upon finding me in his exclusive retreat, then threw both hands to his head in horror upon viewing the mischief accomplished during his absence; striding towards me, he detected the soaking rag. I trembled, and, bursting into tears, cried, "Oh, sir, please don't be angry."
               Nothing was said, but, taking me by the hand, he led me into the hall, mounted the staircase, and walked me along until a wild fear darted into my mind that I was going to be thrust into some dark, eerie closet, never to be let out into the sunshine again. I have a vague idea of wondering what Bertie would say; or Janet. Perhaps, like the sad story of Ginevra, which was then known to me by heart, they would only come upon my bones long years afterwards, never guessing who had dragged me by the hair of my head into that abode of darkness; for I determined to show fight, and only be thrust in by such procedure.
               On the contrary, papa halted at a door, and, calling Janet forth, merely said, "See that this child is in readiness for a journey on the morrow; she will be placed at school."
               And so it proved. Bertie crept to me that evening with a frightened countenance, vowing to come and see me "often and often." He was glad, he said, that papa had not scolded him, but at the same time was sorry that I should be in disgrace. "Never mind, Hopey; when I'm a man, nobody shall send you away; just wait."
               And I did wait, during the long years that rolled by, with hope deferred, and a heart sickening under the desolation of my lot. There was no one to heal my broken spirit; no kindly voice to pour a soothing balm into my ear. I prayed often with an earnestness in my petition that, if God had not utterly forsaken me, wouldn't He please take me to my mother? Why should I live? For was not I but a burden and an eyesore to those who had a right to love me? My existence cumbered the earth, and I were better laid away under the mould.
               As I grew older, though, study absorbed the carking cares of my nature. I was ambitious, and strove diligently for the laurels; and Fame came to me. The little world in which I moved acknowledged me their queen, and superior in classical pursuits; they said I possessed talent, intellect, and would yet prove an honor to my family.
               But what was intellect to me who was starving, famishing, heart-hungry? What is a woman's intellect when the portals of love are barred upon her? She may drink deeply of that old, Pierian well; but it does not sustain her soul-life; eventually she perishes amid the stately columns and grand old Doric temples that are raised from the fabric of her thought-marble!
               Bertie did not retract his promise; at intervals he sought me out, and we planned together for the future so steadily looming before us. The memory of my brother, and the thought of happy years to be spent beside him, was my only solace. I hoped and waited, waited and watched, for that future.
               He also was an ambitious student. Oxford rang with his praises. He achieved a brilliant reputation for scholarship, and in fond pride I rejoiced at the career which would open before him. The time approached for his graduation. It came, passed, and he bore away the principal honors.
               Then, he was fêted, flattered, surfeited with praise; and, at his earnest persuasion, papa allowed him a season of leisure, which was spent in revolving from London to Paris, Paris to London, with gay, roué companions; college chums a few were; others,—adepts in the bold effronteries of life.
               At the time, weeks passed away, and to me came no tidings of Bertie. Until one day, my father's sudden appearance at the pensionnat of Madame La Sagesse quite startled me.
               While I live, never shall that hour be forgotten! Of what avail had been my years of waiting? I could look forward no more—no more. My father's face seemed older, but with its former expression of haughtiness more clearly defined than heretofore.
               In a few terse words, I learned an earnest of that future for whose glad coming my burden had been cheerfully borne for many a dreary, weary month.
               Sorrow and disgrace were branded upon us—a once-proud family! My brother's fair soul had become dark with crime, and to him we owed our degradation.
               They sent him across seas,—to India, and further news of him I could learn not.
               Papa spoke bitterly.
               Henceforward, that once-familiar name must never rise to our lips; we must put him out of our lives, as he had put himself out of our hearts; he was nevermore a son, nevermore a brother. We had done with him for all time to come. My studies might be pursued for two years longer; then I was to return to England, where, with Janet and Joel, we would seek out some retired spot and hide our shame from the world.
               Poor, proud papa! He seemed a man of marble. And I sat there with mute tongue, and listened. I did not swoon, nor even feel faint; but a dead, numb horror came creeping over me, enwrapping my heart and soul in frozen bands. No matter that my brother had brought sorrow upon me,—disgrace even,—I clung to him still, and with every word branding the weak, erring lad to further iniquity, I felt my bosom heave in an uprising of love for him. Deserted, desolate, friendless,—I could not put his memory from me. No, great heaven, he was an idol that I had set up in my heart of hearts!
               At last, rousing myself from the chill stupor enfolding me, I fell on my knees at papa's feet, and, in a very torrent of grief, besought him to revoke his harsh sentence; to pass mercy upon his erring child even as God in heaven would do. I shall never forget the expression of his countenance. It paled to an ashen hue, and his lips set themselves firmly together. He bade me leave him, and never again so much as dare to breathe a word in my brother's behalf.
               "And is it to be always so?" I faltered; "always that you disown him, papa?"
               
               "Always!" he echoed, with accent of bitterness. "His memory is rooted out of my life as a worthless weed. The stain upon his soul casts its reflection upon mine! Can you wipe it away? If so, then plead mercy for him!"
               "I will win you to forget it by my love, papa! And then, when it has paled, you will forgive, and some day he will come back to us?"
               "Never!"
               The tone of that simple word stifled my hopes, my wild pleading. It showed me that my father was inexorable,—sternly, terribly inexorable.
               Journal, dear, dear confidante, dare you blame me for giving utterance to that passion of grief!
               So, for nine years, I have seen only the walls of a school-room; for nine long years, vacations and all, I have been but a prisoner in the pensionnat of Madame La Sagesse, that is situated in the heart of a thriving little hamlet upon the Continent.
               Of course, I fretted and chafed at my imprisonment often and often, and frequently inveigled myself into nursing the desperate expedient that the only means of successfully effecting an escape (divers plans originated in my brain for their execution, too) lay in the subjugation and the boldly attacking of a teacher or two, and then in the jumping of a garden-wall. But, after turning the subject over thrice in my mind, I came to the conclusion that the road beyond the school limits was very dark and very frightful, and that my bed was very soft and comfortable; so it happened that invariably I turned over and fell fast asleep whilst cogitating the probabilities of freedom.
               Well, ah me, in due time the period of my probation terminated; the journey across the Channel began and ended. How loudly beat my hopes when my British feet once more pressed Britain's soil! I knew we were not to dwell in papa's old homestead; I knew, too, the many sad, cruel things that had often brought very bitter tears to my eyes; still, it was something to have my papa, and my good old nursey, and Joel, back again. Don't you think so too, you kind, patient dear of a journal?
               Afterwards we came to this up-country, and to this queer old abbey. A long, long journey by rail it was; long and stupid, and very fatiguing because of two tiresome Englishmen who occupied the same compartment with us.
               The greater portion of the way papa sat sheltered behind a book. I and Misery (that isn't very elegant grammar, is it, now?) condoled together in a most uncomfortable corner of the carriage.
               The stranger pair settled themselves so naturally and with so sublime an indifference to the trials and discomforts of a journey by rail, that I, fretting in my corner, immediately conceived a violent antipathy for their stolid British natures, which could allow them to gaze at me in complacency, as with an air of implying, "What a cross thing you are, to look peevish in our delightful companionship!"
               One—a bluff, hale country gentleman—seemed overwhelmed by a score of bundles, and a canary in a cage; the other, a lad with dancing blue eyes, maintained an incessant chatter about a certain "Geoffrey." I was sick of the name before the journey was half completed, and prayed from my soul that the travelers would be dropped somewhere on the route; but station after station whirled by, and in vain the guards shouted vociferously in their ears the name of each successive stopping-place. Deaf were they to all such entreaties, and before long my hopes sank to zero; with more tenacity than would have done the old man of the sea, they clung to us.
               It was trying, indeed! When I most wanted to enjoy that strange English landscape,—with here a shadowy pool, or there a moss-grown hill,—those loud voices would break in harshly upon my musings, and I was forced to give heed to their converse whether I would or no.
               Geoffrey! Geoffrey! Geoffrey! I fairly hated the man.
               In this way many facts relating to him drifted to me, tossed upon the wavelets of speech; and though I pretended, all the time the train went shrieking along as if warning people of our near proximity, that my ears were quite impervious to the avalanches of praise heaped upon their odious Geoffrey, yet I heard distinctly every word; learned that he had been making violent war upon a certain unfortunate poacher. Divers and sundry plans had he laid for entrapping the poor wretch; he had hunted him down through glade and forest,—lately had succeeded in imprisoning him; but the unreasonable (?) man, eluding his keepers, had effected an escape.
               Of course, the strangers caused it to appear as if the poor poacher were a man of dangerous and villainous compound; they held him up,—a terror to honest folk, one who would, at a sly chance, kill and slaughter for the mere pleasure of spilling blood. The things they related made me shudder, when twilight began stealing into the corners of our first-class, and I crouched lower in my nook to shut out the visions springing into being beside me.
               And throughout the evening, again it was Geoffrey, Geoffrey, Geoffrey! Of course, they invested him in martyr robes; he was the prime and innocent sufferer, a target against which redounded all the evil-doing of an evil-doing age. The injuries he had sustained at that poacher's hands! The gentleness with which he had borne with him! Oh, surely it was wonderful, passing human ken!
               But I am not one of the kind to fall idolatrously into the ranks, tendering meekly an allegiance; at each new word of praise lavished on their Geoffrey, I felt myself more drawn towards his enemy; deeply I sympathized with that unfortunate who, spite of his strength in resisting power, was—Samson-like—but showering further ruin upon himself. Perhaps he didn't dream there was one on his track who (as the strangers indirectly informed me) was never to be turned from a purpose; was never to be thwarted in his will, was stern, inexorable, inflexible; but they couldn't deceive me in my estimate of this Geoffrey's character; no, oh, dear, no.
               I knew him immediately; I knew him to be a great, uncouth, unmannerly ogre; perhaps he even dwelt in a ruined castle, enticing people within its walls for the mere satisfaction of torturing and annihilating them,—soul and body. For some time this fancy yielded me a tolerable amount of pleasure; so, following it out in a train of ideas, quite a romance was woven in my mind, born of the barbarisms supposed to be practiced by the aforesaid Geoffrey. A little fairy princess was I, destined to be—oh, so cruelly treated by Lord Ogre, who was to carry out the ogre character by imprisoning me in his ruined castle, feeding me upon nothing, and almost succeeding in destroying me,—when lo! the fairy prince, valiantly bursting the castle gates, would straightway lop off Lord Ogre's head, and marry me to the sound of tiny bells and woodland music. To make merry at the feast, all the poachers in a body would be invited, and my prince, bestowing upon them a real kingdom, would bid them be happy ever afterwards, just as princes do in story-books.
               Now tell me, journal dear, wouldn't that be a real comfortable ending! I mean with Lord Ogre minus a head, the poachers free to springe hares or bag woodchucks, and my prince and I——
               On the fly-leaf of a prosy old novel that I was in vain endeavoring to peruse, then and there appeared a picture of the hateful Geoffrey; if the young man with the dancing blue eyes could have seen the ludicrous caricature, it would have checked the flow of praise that ever and anon spurted from his lips in wearisome jets; praise that caused me to pucker up my mouth as I hadn't done since the early school days, when I stole green fruits or partook of lemons thickly coated with salt.
               Nor would he so deferentially have offered me his Morning Post,—a courtesy that papa resolutely intercepted, declining for me with somewhat of a stern demeanor.
               For two years he has not held a newspaper in hand; nor, Janet says, will he allow of one being introduced into his abode. Poor, poor papa! But I do wish he had allowed me a civil "No, I thank you," towards the young man, and an opportunity of convincing him that I could have mustered up one smile during all that tiresome journey.
               Well, it ended finally, and I was glad to be rid of my unknown fellow-travelers.
               We went whirling along.
               It was night when we reached our destination; but the road gleamed white in the moonlight, and, with all the enthusiasm of girlhood, I peered out upon the new existence opening before me.
               It is a venerable old place,—this abbey home.
               Then, I could detect naught but a massive pile of stone fronts and towers that appeared all heaped together in sublime irregularity. I fancied that never a sorrow nor a tragedy could awaken these dumb walls into voice; the moon-rays lay upon them so solemnly grand, ribbing porch, door, and turret with bars of silver light. It brought me peace and rest to pass under these portals and experience at last the knowledge that a wanderer had found her home.
               Viewed in daylight's uncompromising glare, however, the building glooms forth dark, gray, antique. It stands upon an elevated ridge of ground; overlooking the cliffs, and beyond these, the ocean with its tumbling billows, it ought to prove a dreary outlook for a pair of young eyes; but indeed I like it very much. Perched up on this rocky hill-brow like a mountain bird's nest, my home will seem a quiet haven from all the storms that lash with fury the outside world. Ought I not to be grateful for its sheltering peace? Ah, I know it; but how may one still the cry of agony when a word, a look, a breath, bares the red wound, and it bleeds afresh! God help and pity me! I need thy tenderness, O Father in heaven!
               How my pen rambles!
               It was pleasant lying out in the church-yard grass this afternoon. Once, a clattering of horse-hoofs in the road outside made me start, but upon raising myself, and seeing nobody, again I lazily stretched my limbs, and glanced up at my angel overhead. Whilst uttering a few sympathetic condolences with the poor little thing, my eyes unintentionally traveled downward, discovering upon the slab a name in staring gilt letters—a name that caused me to utter a cry of wondering recognition, that of Geoffrey Brent!
               I wonder if that Christian name of Geoffrey is to pursue me everywhere! It was enough, surely it was enough, to have had it so dinned in my ears during that tiresome journey. "Fortunately, though," mused I, "this Geoffrey is safely beyond all dinning, and unless I were to meet with some of his people, who'd of course prate of deceased virtues, etc.,—but pshaw! this date is by no means of recent affixing; they've forgotten him long ago; of course they have."
               The grass was still waving, the trees stirring, and the thrushes singing. I had dropped down again, knotting myself up into a queer little heap, thinking over my life, and of papa, and of all our troubles, when, with not even the warning of a noisy twig, a tall man stood beside me, a hand touched my lowly head, and a voice exclaimed, gayly, "Is this child or fay?"
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     "In our course through life we shall meet the people who are coming to meet us, from many strange places, and by many strange roads; and what it is set to them to do to us, and what it is set to us to do to them, will all be done."
                  
               
               SOMEHOW I managed to scramble upon my feet, with the dignity of my eighteen years fearfully insulted; and, giving one scathing glance towards the intruder, swept past,—whilst saying, emphatically, "It's neither, sir," in tones (I flattered myself) of stately hauteur.
               The gate was reached, the latch uplifted, but there was my further flight effectually barred.
               A great, shaggy dog, of the species bloodhound, apparently, stood scowling at me; his row of sharp teeth was glittering in defiance, and his eyes were sparkling like coals of fire. I dared not move forward, but looked back at my grassy covert with sorrowful regret; there stood the gentleman, his arms nonchalantly folded upon his breast, regarding with interest that hideous little angel upon Geoffrey Brent's tomb.
               What should I do? Between two fires—could I advance or retreat?
               The hound gave one deep growl; instantaneously, the wicket fell to with a clash. Then and there a prisoner, stood I motionless, swinging the string of my hat round and round; my dress was crumpled, my hair blowing most unromantically in my eyes, and remnants of grass adhering to me from head to foot.
               Another deep growl, and a bark like the roll of distant thunder!
               A man's step came lightly over the grass, then paused, and the stranger stood beside me.
               "Ah!" said he, "my dog is annoying you; I will take him in custody while you pass."
               He unlatched the gate, gave a low whistle, and, as the beast came bounding forward, stooped, and grasped him by an iron collar.
               "A while ago, I mistook you for a little friend of mine," remarked he, pleasantly; "you will excuse a stranger's addressing you, upon that score, will you not?"
               "Ye-es, sir," I managed to falter, blushing very much, because I felt the gentleman's keen gaze fastened upon me; soon, mustering courage, I looked down at him where he was stooping in the grass, and found (to my extreme discomfiture) that he was not regarding me at all, but rather caressing the dog, with a hand large and ugly, and terribly suggestive of strength.
               "What a hideous brute it is!" said I, at last, by way of compelling him to look up. "Cerberus at the gates of Hades must have been far handsomer."
               Indeed, where mortal may stumble upon a more vicious-looking, large-headed, sharp-toothed beast, I can conjecture not.
               At that, the gentleman bestowed upon me a coolly contemptuous gaze:
               "I wouldn't exchange him for the noblest or best-featured animal in the kingdom, at any rate; to me it matters not that he is ill formed or bad-featured; does it, old fellow?"
               He rose, and, holding the gate open, lifted his hat, and bowed ceremoniously; as much as to imply, "Now you may go."
               Feeling chagrined then, I rustled past him, to march homeward in vexed mood. Though on the way it proved a relief to know that that ugly hand was holding firmly the dog, still, when beyond reach, I could not refrain from thinking what a splendid opportunity was that for displaying my heroism I had lost.
               I began to feel extremely sorry, then,—to scold myself well for being such a coward, and to resolve, as I walked away, that, come what would, no brute of any description should hereafter daunt me.
               The sun was lazily plodding westward.
               Instead of entering the abbey grounds, I climbed down a foot-path opening upon the beach, and wandered there until twilight came and passed.
               In one's existence, leaving school is an epoch. "But what have I gained by it?" I mused. "This idleness will kill me. I'm going to turn over a new leaf, though; a real, a sure one this time. Of course, now that I'm with him, I must study papa's comfort, and take my place as his daughter, and set tasks for myself, and—and—why, I'll begin this very night; so I will."
               With my new leaf ready and fresh for its first impression, I went home then,—lingering in the garden a moment to sniff the breath from some wild-rose-bushes bursting into bud.
               Janet was bustling in and out from press-room to dining-hall; pausing now and then to polish a glass or rub an urn. A table was stretched to lengthy proportions, round which the butler was having a little game of hide and seek all to himself. A manifest stir seemed to pervade the cook's regions, too. "Janet," exclaimed I, seizing an opportunity for speech during one of her oscillations from glass to urn, "Janet, oughtn't young ladies to know something about these things?"
               "Why, yes, Miss Hope, dear, if they're brought up properly, they ought."
               "Then I'm going to be brought up properly! Janet, I shall make tea for papa to-night; you needn't mind (with a lofty air), you needn't mind bothering about it."
               "I don't think you'll do it this night, my dear." She gave the cream-bowl a tender hug, and me an approving smile.
               "Oh, yes, but I will, though; an angel from heaven couldn't stop me now."
               "Nor a man from earth, Miss Hope?"
               
               "Nor a man from earth," I laughed, tossing back my curls in defiance.
               My old dear was regarding me with a slightly elevated turn of her eyebrows. "Look there," then exclaimed she, pointing towards the table, where to my astonishment three plates were laid in solemn state. "Your papa gave orders for that," she continued, triumphantly; "there's a strange gentleman to dine!"
               "I don't care," I pouted; "I'm determined to make the tea, spite of all the gentlemen in the world. But who'd have thought! A gentleman visiting here,—who is he, who is he, Janet?"
               She didn't know, she said; she could only advise me to smooth my hair, and change my dress, and knot a ribbon at my throat. She knew what she would do if she were a young lady. My poor, foolish old dear!
               Of course I took the hint, going straightway to my room to stand up a long time before the mirror and to be at great pains with the details of my toilet.
               Then the dinner-bell clanged. "I wonder if he is young and handsome," I thought. "I'm afraid, if he is, I won't know how to eat." Every male is a possible hero, to the fancy of eighteen; so, with beating heart, I threaded my way to the dining-hall, and, bracing myself manfully for the ordeal, passed into the apartment with downcast lids, where papa, having but just entered, said, courteously, "Mr. Brent, allow me to introduce my daughter, Hope Vairin."
               Mr. Brent, indeed! That name upon the tombstone. With a hasty motion I lifted my eyes, seeing before me the veritable stranger encountered in the churchyard!
               He is broad-shouldered and strong-limbed; not a handsome man, nor a very young man.
               I turned away, oh, so disappointed; but nevertheless am I compelled to acknowledge it a keen face which he bears, though a homely one. The nose is irregular; the eyes are calm, but rather stern, and are indicative of an earnest, observing nature; when the lips smile, the eyes remain serious, wearing their earnestness as if a jest were too light a thing in which to indulge. The forehead is a fine one, I think, but seamed here and there with deep furrows; it is surmounted by a mass of dark, luxuriant hair. The lips, as do the eyes, indicate his character; they are firm and stolid, with earnest lines curving the bow, and a meditative, calculating smile appearing ever and anon upon them, which evinces to an observer the fact that Mr. Brent is apt to measure one by some unknown standard,—elevating or depressing accordingly.
               With that pleasant (?) supposition in my mind I sat down for a conflict with my dinner.
               How I should have hated him had he dared look at me! But with impunity I might have consumed a table-full of edibles, for papa and his guest conversed together incessantly, utterly ignoring the little figure upon the opposite side of the board. It seems papa knew Mr. Brent's father years and years ago, when a mere boy; so of course it must have been a pleasure to meet with the son, and of course it wasn't to be expected that I should take part in the conversation. Politics and past ages! Past ages and politics! Glad was I to slip away, leaving them to prose over their wine and cigars.
               The moments passed, and finally the gentlemen returned to the library. When the clock struck nine, the butler carried a tray thither; my heart was in my throat, but nevertheless I stalked boldly in his wake, and proceeded to make the tea. This, Janet says, is a time-honored ceremony instituted by papa, and one that apparently he would not forego under any consideration; so, evening after evening, night after night when the hour of nine is nigh, Joel marches bravely to the front, i.e. library, bearing his tray in martyr-like stoicism.
               This apartment is large and lofty, with arched ceiling, and heavily paneled walls; at its extreme end the gentlemen were seated, while upon a stand near them, lights in antique silver candelabra shed a dim glare about the room.
               The service was placed upon a side-table in a corner of the chamber which was but faintly lighted; for awhile I fumbled nervously over caddy, urn, and kettle, uncertain what to do, and how to do it. Never in my life before had I made tea, but there was a faint method lurking in my mind somewhere which goaded me on, until triumphantly antly rattling spoons and saucers, I motioned the butler to serve cups to the gentlemen.
               Mr. Brent churned his spoon round and round, and from my corner watching with bated breath, I could see him glancing oddly at the steaming beverage.
               Papa received his, stirred it, then summoned the butler to remove the cups, and said, "I think you had better call Janet." I peeped over the rims when again they were placed upon the tray. Great heaven! It was simply boiling water steaming in those huge china receptacles. I had forgotten the principal ingredient,—the tea was still in the caddy, the urn innocent of even its odor! And yet I remember having that odious little canister in my hand; oh, dear! how stupid of the butler. "The room was dark," he apologized, and he "hadn't noticed."
               Will papa ever want me now? It is so hard; he probably thinks me dull and stupid, and I—I—oh! journal dear, you see I am a trial to myself even.
               There! I've wiped away the tears now.
               It doesn't matter what Mr. Brent thinks, the horrid man; I know I shall never, never like him. Before Janet came in, I had slid from the library, and, rushing out into the garden, wandered about it for a long time, through court, and broken arches, and past remnants of fountains and marble Dians.
               "Everybody seems to be conspiring against me; they're always trying to make me do provoking things. I can never, never be good," I sobbed.
               "Will that hateful Mr. Brent ever go?"
               As if the expression of that thought had opportunely forced him out, Mr. Brent came forth then and there. When his tall figure appeared in the path outside, I heard the impatient pawing of a horse, and the low, glad bark of a dog; peering through the bars of the gate, I saw the stranger there standing, with an arm thrown over the neck of a beautiful steed, the other hand caressing its mane with a touch of pride and tenderness.
               "Be still, Raven," commanded the master, as the animal, impatient to be off, champed his bit restlessly, and struck the ground with iron foot; then, vaulting into the saddle, he shook the reins, and in a moment I found myself self gazing into vacancy, with ear strained to catch the hoof-beats fast dying in the distance. When they came no longer, turning, I entered the house. Papa called me to him.
               "I suppose you will want to attend church to-morrow," said he, looking beyond my figure at the door.
               "I suppose so, sir," answered I, looking at an opposite door.
               "Very well, you may. Mr. Brent tells me he has a little sister whom he will send over to see you in the course of the week; I suppose you can play with your dolls."
               "Oh, papa, I have done playing with dolls."
               "Well, well, amuse yourself as best you may. Poor child, you must look not to your father for happiness. There's none for him this side of the grave,—so go your way!"
               "Oh, papa, I can be very happy with you, just with you," I cried, drawing nearer him, and longing to throw myself upon his dear breast; but he rose moodily, commencing to pace the floor backward and forward.
               "These Brents are a fine old family," he exclaimed, shortly, addressing himself rather than me. "I knew the young man's father when we were but college boys; afterwards, too, we traveled abroad together. Poor fellow, he lived a sad, brief life,—a sad, brief life."
               "Was his name Geoffrey, papa?"
               "Why, yes; what do you know of him, child?"
               "Nothing, sir; but I saw the name upon a tombstone, which, no doubt, is that of your friend."
               "Of course it is, poor fellow. When I read the young man's note this morning, asking leave to call at the abbey, the name struck me at once as being that of a former friend."
               I wanted very much to learn a little more about this dead Geoffrey Brent, but knew questioning would be useless with my father, who dislikes it excessively. He had then retreated to the window, and was gazing out into the night.
               "Good-night, sir," I called, leaving the library, and tripping away to look up Janet.
               
               Play with our dolls, indeed! Why, papa actually forgets I have left my childhood far behind me.
               I know I shall not like that little sister any better than her brother.
               Of course he is married; of course, why shouldn't he be? Maybe he'll want to send his children—babies and all—over to see me. If he does, I'll——But, journal darling, it is growing late, and I'm so sleepy.
               Won't you please say good-night, and shut yourself up in the dark? and I'll just creep away into bed.
               Good-night, world.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "Ah, babe i' the wood, without a brother-babe!
                        My own self-pity, like the red-breast bird,
                        Flies back to cover all that past with leaves."
                     
                  
               
               WHO that has witnessed the dawn of day upon a strip of golden beach can ever forget its grandeur?
               Slowly from the ocean's bosom the mists are rolled away, and then the green waters sparkle, the flowers awaken, and the crags are revealed in all their luxuriance.
               The sun, after breaking through the dawn, struggles onward to brighten up the hollows, and some distant hills that are to be girded in bands of gold, and the moorland heather, so longing to be blushed into purple.
               How grandly has God made the world! This quiet English country pleases me. There is a peace and fairness upon it which speaks gently to my heart, and brings me a hope that perhaps, in some far-away time, we may learn to know happiness here.
               The wild-flowers seem to utter a welcome as I pass; the sea, too, is going to chant lullabies for me, as I skip up and down to chase its billows, or pick up shells on the beach.
               We shall be good friends; you will not prove false to me, O sea, with your wild, chattering voice!
               This morning I came out to watch the day dawn; returning home, ate my breakfast, snatched up journal, and here again I sit—perched high in a shady nook. A week has gone by, and so much have I to write about that my pen and fingers are all impatience to begin!
               To go back to last Sunday, when papa and I went to the village church, and sat in the high, old-fashioned Chester pew, with its moreen hangings, and stiff hair-cloth cushion.
               It was terrible to know that, individually, as well as in a body, every good Christian there was regarding us with keen scrutiny. I felt nervous and embarrassed, and, instead of hearkening to the sermon, was wishing myself safely at home. But when the words of the Litany came floating down the aisle—holy and solemn—a softness was shed over my heart that had not lingered there for many a day— 
                     
                        "O Lamb of God, who takest away the sins of the world;
                        
                           Grant us thy peace.
                        "O Lamb of God, who takest away the sins of the world;
                        
                           Have mercy upon us."
                     
                   Tears gathered fast upon my lids, but, choking them down, I looked up to note the face of the minister.
               A pair of eyes seemed, from the opposite side of the church, to be fixed steadily upon my countenance, and, turning to avoid the scrutiny, I yet remained conscious that a steadfast gaze continued to be riveted upon me. At last, painfully controlled by that magnetism appertaining to the human iris, I raised my head to observe and confront him who was thus regarding me.
               
                  Him! It was not Mr. Brent, as I had told myself; it was not he at all.
               The owner of the eyes was an odd-looking child seated amid a crowd of other children—a band of Sabbath-scholars, I thought, probably. A tiny mite of a girl, with a mass of short black curls clinging to her head, and possessed of eyes large and weird, dark as sloes. She was watching me so closely, the poor little creature; I wonder what there is in my face to have so attracted her! And several times I remarked she coughed so hollow, so broken a cough; it made me shiver to hear that dismal sound, knowing as I did the fearful thing it portended.
               When the last chant had died away, we passed out. The scene was very lovely that Sunday morn: the Gothic-shaped church with its tower and ancient weather-cock, its mullioned windows; the village hard by, with cottages nestling amid trees, and a stream rippled by a mill-wheel and spanned by a bridge; in the church-yard, marble dotting the sward, trees rustling their plumy crowns, flowers and vines wreathing around.
               This last was indeed a landscape sacred to immortality.
               Joel was holding open the carriage door, but at the moment, three gentlemen coming up, papa stayed me in my intention of scrambling in, and we were presented to "Squire Briarly" and "my brother Walter." Why, the very people that had been companions to us upon that tiresome journey.
               "We've met before, Miss Vairin," gallantly said "my brother Walter," "and I've been ardently longing for this chance to see you again." He is a young man of perhaps one-and-twenty, rather handsome, and evidently somewhat addicted to the use of extravagant language.
               "Is your brother's name Geoffrey?" asked I, in a low voice, as Mr. Brent the elder strolled away, leaving papa to talk with the Squire.
               "That tall fellow yonder, who's just given me the slip, to do the polite to Lady Ada Littlejohn? Yes, and the very best old fellow in the kingdom, Miss Vairin!"
               Geoffrey Brent—Lord Ogre! "Oh," thought I, "something did warn me against the man, but I didn't dream he was Lord Ogre at all."
               The memory of that tea-making made me feel ashamed of myself, because, journal, if he is ogreish in nature, at any rate he wears a gentleman's garb, and of course must know the usages of civilized life.
               What does he think of me, I wonder! Beside him was standing a large, fair lady, who wore her profusion of yellow hair stowed away beneath a bonnet of lace and roses. Her complexion was transparent; the blue-veined temples being delicately outlined against the waves of hair, and the cheeks bearing a tint of exceeding beauty. Eyes whose color rivaled the wood-violets—soft, pleading eyes—were looking upward into her companion's face. A languid, graceful woman seemed she; one who would never be roused from her fair ladyism, or surprised into expression of enthusiasm, that augury of vulgar, (?) ill-bred (?) people. The fawn-colored silk was faultless in its arrangement; not a lace nor a ribbon but displayed exquisite taste; you would have feared to clasp the dainty-gloved hand, so chary seemed it of its beauty; or to touch the cherry lips, so listlessly they smiled their greeting. You would have dared not overstep the boundary drawn you by those glistening folds of silk that swept the ground in stately magnificence; she seemed simply a woman to be looked at for her loveliness, a sort of lay-figure in the business of life; a thing upon which to hang jewels, to gird trappings, and to swathe in purple, and gold, and fine linen. Lady Ada Littlejohn, Mr. Walter Brent informed me, is her name.
               Another one of the group was a lively, bustling Mrs. Dashwood, elder sister to the Lady Ada, and manager, president, etc., of the charity associations, sewing-societies, patroness of orphans and indigent persons, etc. She stood quietly regarding me; in her hand was held one of those fearfully ostentatious prayer books, all gilt clasps, velvet binding, and golden crosses.
               I looked down at mine; in contrast, how plain; simply bound in leather, tear-stained and bethumbed with memories of olden school-days; oh, the tears that have fallen upon its little, torn pages are legion!
               The Squire bored papa dreadfully; the idea of talking to my papa about trout, and foxes, and game, and hunting!
               The younger brother, seeming to consider it his bounden duty to entertain me, no doubt presumed said duty to consist in the bestowing upon me of lengthy stares, and the launching into sudden descriptions of various pleasure-jaunts he would inaugurate for my delectation. Was I fond of yachts? Did I dance? Could I ride?
               Ah, there we rose equal in our enthusiasm for horseflesh; for some time, too, I talked glowingly upon the subject. Yes, I rode, but my pony had not yet arrived from town, I told him, and I was all impatience awaiting its coming.
               Just then Lord Ogre came strolling back to papa.
               "I've not spoken so many words nor laughed so much in a long time," said I, when, breathlessly, my tirade was completed.
               "Why, I shouldn't set you down on my tablets as a melancholy young lady," he returned; "you mayn't be very boisterous, but I don't believe you could cut up any bobberies about sentiment, and that sort of thing; no, by George, you don't look like one of the kind who thinks herself above being lively and having a gay time, now do you?"
               "No, indeed! The older I grow, the more I like to indulge in that which, as the children say, is having fun."
               "Well, I suppose you follow your desires," he queried.
               "No; how can I with nobody to amuse me! Why, I could enjoy a good romp over that moor if any young people were along to help me."
               "Am I not young?" he asked. "I'll help you."
               "Of course, you're very young" (with emphasis), "but I didn't mean now, exactly."
               "But I take people always at their word, Miss Vairin."
               "Don't take girls, though; they always mean exactly what they leave unsaid."
               "Aha! that'll be good advice to remember some future day."
               By way of changing the subject, I looked abroad, exclaiming, "What a beautiful country is yours! These vast moorland heaths, the ferns dotting the ground, the sturdy trees, the stream in the distance with the mill turning its water; and then beyond! the sea, the cliffs, and those great sheer rocks."
               "Yes, it is a beautiful country," he slowly exclaimed, gazing about him, as if the thought had only then been suggested to his mind. "Beautiful, but too lonely; you should see London, Miss Vairin; ah! there is life, and action, and impulse."
               "And crime, and strife, and death!" I exclaimed, too impulsively to escape his observation. "London is a maelstrom of vice and wickedness."
               "You've seen it, then, on one side alone; there's a glorious aspect on the other, believe me."
               "I've but passed through London," I replied, "and know nothing of it but from hearsay."
               "Don't judge rashly, then," laughingly answered he; "it's the goal of my ambition, at any rate. When my college term expires, then ho! for London, and after some years of study, Dr. Walter Brent will swing forth a golden shingle in that goodly city; yes, by Jove, he will."
               "Is that your destiny?" I asked; "a glorious one, too. I feel proud to witness a man strong in youth going out into the world to carve his fortune. How I envy you! 'Tis humiliating to see one of our lords of creation content himself with an idle country life, when all the world with its treasures lies unplucked before him. If I were a man, I should not accept an humble fate; my nature would be stifled with the burden of an insignificant destiny; to be something great and honored among men would be my ambition."
               Mr. Geoffrey Brent, evidently, had been a listener to this burst of enthusiasm, for, turning around, he bestowed a glance of half-amused inquiry, then exclaimed, "Supposing you were left no choice in the selection of a career, Miss Vairin. Supposing your nature and intellect cried out for these triumphs of fortune, and would not be silenced without severe and manifold struggling; and on the other hand, supposing duty rose up before you—harsh, cold, and unlovely,—but nevertheless your duty all the same. What would be your decision, think you?"
               As he spoke, the smile of amusement died from his lips. Clear, honest eyes fell upon his merry-hearted brother,—a glance signaling proud and tender devotion; then abruptly he turned away towards the others, never deigning to await my reply. Humph! My Lord Ogre is unbearably haughty.
               "Preaching again," laughed Walter. "He's long-winded in his sermons, Miss Vairin, but the best-hearted old boy in the kingdom—really, he is."
               That young man is not unpleasant; apparently, too, he is all unknown to the terrors of bashfulness, therefore put me at ease almost instantly.
               Treating me in quite a different way from that in which papa, or Janet, or Lord Ogre does, of course I was pleased with myself and him. He elevated me to the rank of young ladyhood, and fluttering my new robe of state, of course I looked up at him with pleasure beaming in my eyes, and, feeling glad in the possession of his companionship, made no attempt to conceal my gladness.
               I got into the carriage then, and papa soon bade the gentlemen adieu. The Squire gripped my hand for an overwhelming good-by, promising to send "my Bess" to the abbey before long, who would carry me off to Briarly Manor, on a visit. I concluded "my Bess" to be his wife, so murmured a feeble expression of delight at the prospect of being thus carried off, leaned lazily back among the cushions, and was drawn homeward.
               The following afternoon Mrs. Briarly called at the abbey. She is a cheerful little lady, with a fresh, rosy complexion, and an air of sunshine and summer memories about her; rather given, though, to chatter in a pretty, bird-like voice of "Susie, and Johnny, and Harry, my eldest."
               But I like her; at once she tossed aside all my embarrassment, stealing an arm around me, and drawing my face up for a kiss, treating me with a sort of motherliness, as if I were somewhat akin to Harry, Susie, and baby Johnny home in his cradle. It struck a chord deep in my heart to be so regarded, and I nestled close to her, almost wishing myself in Susie's place for the mere delight of being fondled and petted by hands so gentle.
               The morning succeeding Mrs. Dashwood and the Lady Ada alighted at the abbey gates, sending in cards for Mr. and Miss Vairin. I was so proud of papa then, for he put forth powers I had never dreamed of his possessing, to entertain the visitors.
               How fondly my pen lingers over his name! It would trace words of pride and glory as his meed. In youth he must have been superbly handsome, for a portrait that we have represents a man whose face and bearing would do honor to a Greek god. He does not look old, though the hair waving from a high, open brow is thickly dashed with gray; his eyes are dark, with brilliant fire, and his lips, too rigid perhaps for beauty, nevertheless are capable of fascinating smiles, at rare intervals; in figure he is tall; noble and commanding in mien, my father is a man that may not be trifled with.
               The guests took their leave, evidently more prepossessed in his favor than in mine. Lady Ada extended her gloved hand (with lids cast languidly downward), and therefore did not observe the frown contracting his brow, nor the start which he gave when, barely touching the tips of her fingers, he turned moodily to accompany them to the door.
               That same evening the family from Wildmoor paid us a first visit.
               Once I found myself regarding the strangers intently,—examining their features, comparing notes, and passing judgment upon them in my own mind. As even the minor details of position and dress flash distinctly before me, it presents an excellent opportunity for a description of these personages, who seem well-disposed and courteous on the whole.
               To begin with "Lucy;" she is the eldest sister. I think I shall like her; perhaps, in time, may grow to love her.
               Wouldn't it be a grand ownership,—this of a friend, a friend of my very own!
               I would never dream of applying the term "old maid" to Miss Brent. She seems one of those quiet, unobtrusive women whose lot in life is to minister unto others. I'm sure she is thoroughly devoid of selfishness,—that error universally prevalent among humankind. In the woods are many violets springing beneath mosses; so in the world are many lives beautiful as lowly violets; yet we pass them heedlessly by; even crush out their fragrance with careless tread. Looking upon her face, I felt that the heart beneath was one which would never grow old; that its sympathies were as deep and keen, its receptive capacities as widely extended, its love as ready to be given forth, as when fresh in youth. She is one of those women who will glide into beautiful old age, never harsh, never unlovely.
               Let me pass on to Eleanor; they call her "Nell;" what a fond privilege these home-names are! I'm always Hope,—plain Hope.
               Well, journal dear, Nell Brent is rather a pretty mortal, dark-haired and dark-eyed. She wears her hair as in school-girl times I wore mine; a mass of curls falls to her waist. A picturesque little head it is, with that cloud of hair bound away from the temples by a scarlet ribbon. She was seated before the piano as I noted her, turning the leaves of a piece of music associated in my heart with dear memories; when the chords rose tremblingly, at first I had almost winced as when one probes a wound; but in a moment I could not refrain from smiling. Scarcely under that uncertain touch would I have recognized the air. Oh, when I think of the discord of that girl's making, I fairly shudder.
               The music moved on, and I turned from the window, where I had been conversing with Walter Brent (chiefly upon the condition of the weather), and looked around to observe how the others were bearing so fearful an assault upon their nerves.
               The elder brother was standing before my father's glass cabinet; papa was exhibiting some of his rare curiosities. Mutually those two seem to seek each other in conversation; and very naturally; for both minds run in the same groove; both revel in the gems of literature; both delight in exploring the veins of science and research. I couldn't help contrasting them; but whilst mentally drawing a series of conclusions, my musings were interrupted by a circumstance, light in itself, yet extremely agitating to papa. When each treasure of the old case had been duly commented upon, Mr. Brent, suddenly glancing at the portraits overhead, remarked, in an audible voice, "You are fortunate, Mr. Vairin, in possessing these family relics. Are they true to nature,—life-like?"
               For a moment only there was silence; then came the answer. "No pictures, sir, ever portrayed more perfect likenesses than these." And my father held up the lamp so as to render the portraits distinctly visible.
               Before one, Mr. Brent remained in silent admiration. Then he asked, "Is this a son of yours, Mr. Vairin?"
               "Yes, sir; this was—my son."
               "Ah! He was young to die; young, and very, very beautiful!"
               "Yes, my God, my God! you speak truly. He indeed died in the bloom of youth."
               There was an agony in the voice which spoke these words; poor papa seemed stricken by the thought. A red flush dyed his cheek; a glow of sharp mental pain that all his self-command could not conceal.
               "Forgive me," murmured in a deep, reverent tone, the voice of the other; "unwittingly have I wounded."
               This sentiment of pity would have nerved any reticent nature to brace himself against the betrayal of further emotion. Papa gathered up his habitual self-repose; his countenance settled into composure, and he spoke in language calm, but forcible,—"At times, memory masters the heart. It has passed; we will dismiss the subject."
               Well—well, such feelings must arise in the natural course of events. I dare not speak to my father upon that one topic. Oh! my God, I have seen him so stern, so fixed and stolid.
               When the visitors had departed, he called and bade me summon Janet. Upon our entrance into the parlor together, then, there stood he beside the casement; his face was immovable as stone, his manner stern, chilly. The portrait had been dislodged from its position, and placed upon the floor—its beautiful features turned to the wall.
               "Janet," he said, coldly, "I gave you no permission to hang this picture in my house. Remove it instantly."
               Janet's features quivered; she loved the very memory of my brother, even as did I.
               "Place it," he continued, "where no eye may look upon the face; keep it out of sight forever. But stay, you shall destroy it."
               "Oh! papa," cried I, rushing forward, and throwing my arms about the portrait; "give it to me, please, oh! please; it is all I have of him,—all."
               "Janet," he said, sternly as ever, "do as I bid you; it must be destroyed. Remember, I command your obedience."
               As I knelt thus beside the picture, all unheeded by my father, tears rose surging to my eyes; then I went out into the hall, pausing only when before the door of my own bed-chamber.
               I confess I was angry; and falling upon the floor, lay at full length there, with my forehead pressed to the cold stones,—miserable, lonely, and repulsed.
               Presently, some one came along with a lighted candle. "Child, child," whispered a voice, "get up, get up; you'll get your death o' cold." It was Janet. "And hist, Miss Hope, dear, don't you believe I'll do the master's orders; wait, an' I'll show you where the poor innocent lad 'll hang."
               I was very desolate then; the stars looked down pityingly on me that night, but I do not believe they could have told my story. I felt as if I could not spurn a dog from my feet. Heigh-ho! I wonder if life will go plodding along in this monotony, day by day, year by year; maybe happiness is, after all, but a shadow; some, perhaps, experience rapturous moments—an ecstatic bliss; and then joy is dead forever. But grant it so,—will there ever come to me this sudden jar, this wild knowledge of bliss, this flash of eyes tenderly into my own? Even should I love somebody who might never return it, willingly would I suffer the pain this consciousness would bring me for the glorious privilege of loving.
               I would accept friendship; would pour out my golden treasures profusely, receiving naught in return; oh! journal dear, what a silly girl am I, to be sure; aren't you weary of me?
               The next morning my faithful Janet, with many secret nods and gestures, pioneered a way up this dark, abbey staircase, whispering to me the while many wonderful tales of the building in olden times; I scarcely knew where she was leading me, but followed on blindly, through hall and corridor, through dust and gloom, until finally my guide, pausing before a large and massive door, announced our arrival at "the stone room;" such Janet terms it, though for that matter this entire structure is composed of similar material. When we crossed the threshold I fairly started in wonderment at the scene exposed.
               In those antique days the apartment had probably served as a chapel;—a long, dim archway it seemed, with vaulted roof, and windows of stained glass; handsome once, their beauty was now marred by Time's rough touch. The remnants of an altar-piece yet remained; skillful architects had here carved in wood-work a mighty imagery of the Faith once mistress in our world. They had wrought in rich tracery with silver and purple and gold,—creating within these walls a world of pomp and majesty wherein to bend the knee; the chant of voices still seemed to swell the echoes where, in that gloom of old, hooded figures had been wont to glide solemnly in and out, or, kneeling, to pray with holy lips. Amid those ruins of the past I held my breath; there, where censers and lights and glittering vestments had illumined the cloistered gloom, and pictures, flashing and glistening beneath the dome, had lent a halo to the glowing windows, I could almost hear the organ's swell above the dust of years, and catch the far-off sound of voices. The monks, in sombre cowl and habit, seemed to be stirring dimly about; the silence of the grave to be awakened into life. I raised the picture of a thorn-crowned Christ from the dust, and placed it upon the altar-piece; the most sorrowful eyes that had ever gazed into my own beamed from that face.
               Involuntarily my knee bowed to the floor,—for before me were the relics of human prayer and human faith.
               Janet touched my arm; instantly the vision dissolved in space. I arose, and mutely followed her to a chamber beyond this; it was a passing from Dream into Reality; from the Past into the Present; from the Antique into the Modern. I gazed about in incredulity. Here was a sleeping apartment, rendered charming by skill of deft fingers arranging it with a double view to pleasure and comfort. A bed of eider-down could not have proven more dainty; the coverlet was snowy white; so the pillows, whose edges were tipped in lace; rose silk hangings depended from the casement; through their folds stole in a soft, slumberous light. A chair of crimson velvet stood in a recess; a table, whose top was of mosaic setting, being drawn beside it; a luxurious print or two graced the walls; vases of porcelain and ormolu adorned the mantel-shelf; and lastly, a mirror, in gilt frame, rested upon an oaken bracket.
               When my eyes had taken an inventory of every article, I sank down upon a chair and covered them with both hands; through the interlacing fingers bitter tears dropped. Alas! It was this picture of gorgeousness, causing them to flow in saddened, bitter earnest. These luxurious appointments suggested the nature of one whose ruin had been wrought by a love of sensuous splendor; whose days had been steeped in visions befitting the weird brain of the lotus-eater; whose nights had glided by as if on the rush of orange scents, and under the glimmer of southern stars.
               Soft, luminous, glowing, those eyes met mine out of the past with the old look of languid wonder.
               Janet had conveyed the portrait to the "stone room," and it was now suspended from that portion of the wall facing the door. In it the head and bust alone appeared. If you had looked into a face created upon canvas from the inspiration of a Raphael's brush, such an one might have greeted you as that gazing from its framework in the long-disused apartment. A head set upon the shoulders in regal state; the face half turned, to look upon a gleam of Orient splendor; eyes of blue, glowing, melting, thrilling. I can never word-paint the glory of those large orbs; deep in color as wild pansies, unclosing upon you with an expression of proud beauty, and veiled by lashes whose fringing touch swept the cheeks. The mouth was delicate, yet full, with the crimson flushes of lips wreathing, quivering in expression; purely-cut, sensitive nostrils, whose dilating portrayed a being of delicate, sensitive organization. Above the arch of the brows rose a glitter of hair that fell waving in strands of gold; the forehead was of surpassing intellectual beauty. Oh, how lovely that countenance, and dear as lovely!
               Bear with me, journal, kind, tender companion; thought dwells far too deeply upon this sorrow in my life, I know; but teach me, aid me to bear it. I am young yet, so young, and have not learned to sit with hands folded, and brow serene, when God smites me upon the cheek and bids me look up and smile. Does He not pity us when wrestling here with grief below?
               I never dreamed how many sad things there were in life; but I dare say other people are not as we; they are at peace with one another, and glide along from day to day with lives unfurrowed by scar or seam. Yet why should God have singled us out for misery, and despair, and disgrace?
               It is very, very hard, and very cruel, too!
               I—I didn't mean to write anything so wicked; but it is down now, and cannot be erased. I meant that these pages should bear only a fair record; that they should prove my rule of conscience, and mark the close of each day with shining characters. Yet see! here are tear-stains, and thumbed leaves, and traces of silent struggling; repinings against Fate, and rebellious cries unto the Father; in place of victory, here is defeat; in place of crown, faded leaves and flowers.
               No conquest over self, no sacrifice of temper. What shall I do to be good? I can see the stars in the sky, but cannot pluck them; so does the flash of the true and amiable glitter before my eyes—a far, far-away flash. I stretch out my hands in vain to grasp their lustrous forms, and then, failing, must needs sink downward into the ruts of old, while meadow, dale, and valley, sparkling in golden dew, fleet by, and I am forced to note them fade gradually away. No cross, no crown; shall I not battle for one too?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "How profound the gulf! and how the giant element
                        From rock to rock leaps with delicious bound,
                        Crushing the cliffs, which, downward worn and rent
                        With his fierce footsteps, yield in chasms a fearful vent
                        To the broad column which rolls on, and shows
                        More like the fountain of an infant sea
                        Torn from the heart of mountains by the throes
                        Of a new world."
                     
                  
               
               IT was a day or two after, that papa gave his consent to a plan I had hastily formed, which was that Janet and myself should be granted a holiday, to be spent in rambling the woods, as we had been wont to do when I was a child and had lived with Aunt Rhoda.
               The prospect of a sojourn in open air, where I would be free to do as I pleased,—to shout, or to sing, to laugh, or to leap,—where I could lie in the grass, or chase the butterflies,—this prospect nerved me on to unheard-of gambols, and visions strange and childish.
               Janet was preparing a basket of luncheon. "It looks a bit oncertain," said she.
               "What does?"
               "Why, Miss Hope, the weather. Hadn't I better take the umbrella, and a shawl, and hadn't you ought to put on your rubbers? You'd get your death o' cold, if it happened to take a notion to rain!"
               "No," I protested, stoutly. "Who could gather ferns, and grasses, and flowers, with an umbrella in one hand, a reticule in the other, rubbers on one's feet, and shawls on one's back? Why, I do so want to finish my herbarium. No, Janet, we'll not load ourselves down like dromedaries."
               I lifted the curtain.
               The day was bright, but occasionally a cloud veiled the sun, and its shadow, though hazy and thin, was stealing to the hill-tops. But a peculiarity of Janet consists in being perpetually on the outlook for something unforeseen to happen; she is undisguisedly triumphant whenever opportunity offers itself to smother me in pelisse or shawl; a gleam of untoward satisfaction lights her features if accidentally she can steal upon me napping in some impromptu Sleepy Hollow, and then and there give vent to her propensity for cloak or covering. She couldn't induce me to fall into her trap this time, though, so we started forth empty-handed, except that my companion carried the luncheon, whilst I disported a reticule, ostensibly for the purpose of burdening it with my botanical gatherings.
               As we were passing through the village, who should suddenly turn a corner, and come bustling along, but the lively Mrs. Dashwood? She immediately paused.
               "Ah, Miss Vairin, I'm delighted at this meeting. Do come up street a short distance; I must really have a cozy little chat with you, and let me see—have I finished copying that list of my charity children?"
               She drew out of her pocket a little book with gilt edges, that was fancifully bound in blue cloth, and, turning innumerable pages, ran her finger down a long column of names.
               "Yes, yes, that at least is through with; but do come, I so much want to know you well."
               "You must excuse me just at present," faltered I; "Janet there and——"
               "Nonsense!" she laughed, at the same moment walking me on to a gate, and from thence up the graveled path of a miniature lawn that spread its turf before the entrance-porch of a fantastically-shaped cottage; and there, happily recovering breath, I found myself, to my great horror, in the committee-room of the "Ladies' Benevolent Relief Society."
               The appointments of the apartment were all luxurious; the breeze came to the casement, softly lifting its delicate curtains, and stirring the roses in a vase upon the mantel. Chairs, couches, and tables of fine workmanship lined the walls, and a most exquisite print hung above the chimney-piece. It was a very pretty chamber, but thought murmured mured rebelliously at this untoward captivity when a gleam of the beautiful outside morning would float like a sun-ray into our midst.
               Evidently the lady trips through her charity life upon golden heels, and dispenses her bounties through the medium of sunny smiles.
               "Now, my love," exclaimed she, "if you'll sit patiently for a moment, I'll finish this list in a trice." And with that, stationing herself at a writing-desk, she left me to fidget nervously in my chair, anxiously awaiting an opportunity to make good my escape from the thraldom of her presence.
               Scratch, scratch went the pen.
               Then there came a bustle at the door, and a noise as of some one tapping. My hostess started up, inquiringly, and proceeded towards it; a few moments of converse with some one, and presently she came to the desk, closed it, then bent affectionately over me, saying, "Are you quite tired out, my dear? Pray amuse yourself here a while longer, until I attend to a sad case that has but now come under my notice. Au revoir. I'll not be long."
               She sped gayly away into an opposite room, the sound of a closing door fairly attesting to her safe imprisonment. Then came my chance.
               I ran hastily out to Janet, who had waited in the garden. We went rapidly on.
               "If Mrs. Dashwood's road is the right one to heaven, Janet," said I, "I am afraid I'll never get there."
               "Don't you be too sure about her," she replied, with emphasis; "if my say was the right say, Miss Hope, some folks that I have known would just pack up their tracts and their Bibles, and never show their faces where real Christians are; they ain't a-going to take her to heaven, neither, my dear."
               "Which, Janet, the Christians or the tracts?"
               "The tracts, of course; they won't pass her in the gates; something else must be done in the world besides prating, and calling other folks names."
               On and on we rambled, now stopping to gather a flower or a fern, now lingering to admire the stretch of country, passing here and there banks of fragrant bushes, sniffing the odor from patches of purple thyme; the white stitchwort wort smiled up at us now and then, and the yellowing spires of the snap-dragon thrust themselves flauntingly forward; rock-roses were flowering in splendor, and from over the meadows, moors, and fields came the wild breath of the country laden with sweets.
               When we at last plunged into the depths of a pine forest, I began to grow tired, so sat me down upon the side of a brook, where we partook of our luncheon; the water was so clear, I could note the pebbles upon the bottom, and detect the minnows swimming gayly about.
               The twitter of birds overhead, the song of the beck, the rich leafage of trees, and the sunshine flecking the earth in bands of gold, whispered all a glad message to my nature; the beauty of earth seemed fair and glorious, and with the pine needles showering down upon me, I thought it worth bearing a pang for the joy of unclosing one's eyes upon a day such as that.
               Who notes the gradual bursting of a storm; the clouds hastening over the sun!
               While one moment his beams seemed flooding the world, the next I was startled by a thunderous roar, a flash of lightning, another and another, that started me to my feet in an agony of terror; for one moment, the play of electricity blinded me; the next, calling upon Janet to follow, I ran stumblingly forward.
               "Oh, Miss Hope, dear, dear; but didn't I tell you? I could hate myself for leaving the umbrella! It'll be the death o' you; oh, Lord! Lord!"
               You perceive my old nurse is one of those "I told you so" people.
               The wind rose in moans, then went sobbing in and out the branches of the trees, gurgling dismally from trunk to limb, and rattling them together with painful earnestness. The clouds, too, took up the dirge, flinging themselves low from the sky with hooded mantles darkening close around their stormy shoulders. The golden fluid went chasing through the heavens,—spear and barbed dart quivering in new-born life. The atmosphere pressed murkily about us, while the soughing of the pines became every moment more wild.
               The storm deepened in violence.
               
               Came he from the land of the Norsemen,—this stern and mighty warrior-king with iron crown and sceptre girding brow and wrist?
               In terror, the trees, chasms, and rocks did him homage, while glares of flame darted hither and thither, lighting up the wood and wold as with sunset fires, and dancing athwart the ground as if playing madcap antics before the blast.
               Then torrents of rain dashed fiercely down upon us.
               There was no shelter from its fury.
               "Oh, Janet, I cannot," with terrible emphasis I said, as upon the brink of a dark ravine one of the stalwart pines fell crashing to the earth, "I cannot go further;" but seizing my arm, she hurried me forward, with rapid strides making for a clearing to our right. On and on we pushed, endeavoring to struggle into some road that might guide us in safety to a place of shelter; suddenly ahead gleamed a strip of path, and following that we at last emerged into a carriage drive.
               "I see a chimney and a peaked roof," shouted Janet above the storm. "The Lord ha' mercy on us!"
               I had let my hair curl loose that day; now it hung about my shoulders a dripping mass; garments were drenched and draggled; feet cold and wet; my hands were laden,—in one the reticule, in the other a handful of beaten flowers. At last, breathless and exhausted, we arrived at the goal,—a vine-wreathed gate.
               Probably a half-mile further on up the road there stood a keeper's lodge, but we paused not upon thought of ceremony. Unlatching the gate, in a trice we had accomplished a run up the lawn, seeing before us what seemed a Swiss chalet, evidently an ornament in some gentleman's park grounds.
               "Come quickly," cried I, making for a flight of steps; but just then feet and limbs became motionless as if paralyzed with fright. I could move not a step. From the balcony a dog had started up, with eyes glaring; in the one wild moment in which I looked upon him, a terror came creeping into my heart, almost stilling its beats, and numbing its pulses. It was the blood-hound that had barred my egress from the church-yard!
               Giving a growl, he bounded towards me; but I stirred not a muscle, nor could have moved a finger, had I so thought to save myself; the mastiff's breathing hissed close upon my cheek; low, vengeful snarls smote my ear; then with a terrible consciousness of feeling his teeth close over my hand, I was looking up at the figure of a man that came hurriedly from the chalet, and that, muttering something much like a curse, was about to drive off the brute with a blow, when suddenly from behind, an arm wielding a massive stick felled the animal to the earth, insensible.
               At that, Mr. Brent, uttering an exclamation of wonder coupled with the words, "Poacher Bill," bent towards me,—a new, a strangely-agonized expression in his eyes. I did not faint at all; but believe I even laughed when I held up to him my hand dripping with blood.
               "Oh, my God!" cried he in terrible earnestness; "my little girl, my little Fay, how is this?"
               Stooping, he gathered me up in his strong arms, all wet and ugly as I was, and bore me into the chalet; in a second he had torn into strips his handkerchief, and, kneeling before me as I crouched in a great chair, had bound up the fingers whose flesh was torn asunder, and whose blood was oozing largely.
               After that I must have fainted, for I remember nothing save a dim consciousness of the entrance of hurrying feet, and the presence of strange faces, and the sound of voices that crooned in my ear, mingled with the delightful perception of a window rich from the odor of clustering blossoms.
               At last my eyes opened with a shudder. The rain was beating heavily on the window-panes. I found myself lying upon a sofa, with Janet kneeling beside it, and a strong, rugged face bending over me in tenderest solicitude. Upon the opposite side of the couch stood a woman arrayed in a light, cool dress, whose features were beaming with benevolence. She raised her finger, smiled knowingly, and said, "Now, Mr. Geoffrey, will you go if you please? the young lady must get on a change of clothing."
               The face above me disappeared, and a door suddenly opened, then closed.
               
               "Now, young mistress," she exclaimed, kindly, "we must be quick; it isn't safe for you in these wet garments; will you sit up awhile?"
               Not an inch did I move, but Janet, raising me, whispered, "She says true, my dear; you'll take your death o' cold. Mrs. Rose here is a-going to lend you some pretty clothes; look up, my darling." The good creature spoke as if I were a child to be soothed and cajoled into compliance; so, feeling ashamed of myself, I submitted quietly to the operation of being undressed and dressed over again. It was very pleasant, though, to have myself thus kindly cared for, and to close my eyes without the exertion of thought to burden me. Soon, Janet and I were the sole occupants of the room, and I stretched myself out on the sofa, staring lazily, and making faces at the many curious adornments of the walls; wondering where the others were, and what they were doing, and why they didn't satisfy my curiosity in regard to the owner of that quaint little habitation. What had brought Mr. Brent there, I wondered. It wasn't Wildmoor, I knew; Wildmoor,—that is his home, dear journal; for the quarter of an hour that I lay there fondling my bandaged hand, I kept puzzling myself, very foolishly too; what concern was it of mine, to be sure?
               Growing tired at last, and starting from my couch, I went over to the hearth, where a newly-kindled fire was blazing cheerily. Janet had essayed to dry my hair, but still it clung to my temples, chill and dripping. Upon lifting my hand to wring out the remaining moisture, a sudden pain shooting across the palm forced me to drop it with a smothered groan. Then I moved on to the window, near which bells of royal flowers were pealing their melody, stirring all the air in perfume. It was still raining, but the drops came down in a drizzling shower, falling less pitilessly to the ground.
               I looked out. It was dreary. The figure of a man, though, stood on the lawn. He was stooping over some object, apparently stretched upon the earth.
               Now he passes his hand over it, then turns away and shudderingly covers his face for a moment.
               "Come to the fire, Miss Hope, darling," says Janet, coaxingly, darting forward and striving to force me from the window. "Don't, don't look at him!" But I only stretch my neck further out, hearing then the low, almost inaudible moans of an animal in pain, and seeing the body of a dog extended upon the wet grass, a wound in its head bleeding profusely.
               That tall figure still bent over him. "Bruno, lad, lad! Poor fellow! Poor, true dog!"
               Why does a man's sorrow cut one to the heart? Women weep, but women's lives are made of tears. Alas! who, on the journey to the grave, stays one step to dry the scalding drop or wipe away the bitter memory from their cheeks?
               But a man with the shine of tears in his eyes becomes less human, more divine. It is a touch of the Christ in his nature that speaketh through the voice of anguish. He is like unto a pine shuddering upon a lonely hill-top,—the wail of the blast, rattling its cones, steals not down to the valley, and the people there look up in wonder; yet do they honor that stately trunk, fighting away its desolation of spirit with true inborn majesty. To man, tears entail an element of the purer world; in woman, they are too often the emblems of imbecility and puerile despondency. Yet mistake me not. If a good woman has wept for you, treasure those drops. They are sacred. Perhaps, some day, she may be gone far away, and you would give your right arm for a look into her eyes, faded though they were. Men must toil, and women must weep, but, alas! who minds a woman's tears?
               At last the figure was stooping no longer. It rose, and there was a something clutched in its hands. Its face was stern and stolid and pitiless.
               "Come away, Miss Hope, love, come away," cried Janet, again and again. And she pulled me towards the hearth, quickly, suddenly.
               Then the report of a gun shocked the air,—loud, long, and quivering, as if in mortal agony. A dead silence followed. Tick, tick went the clock; the wood sang on in cruel glee.
               But I laid my head on the mantel, crying in very weariness of spirit; sobs that could no more have been repressed pressed than could the ocean have stilled its roar. After the lapse of ten minutes, a door opened; it was Mrs. Rose. I lifted my head, but, not wishing to have the redness of my eyes detected, pretended to be busily looking into the fire.
               "He's done it," slyly whispered Janet.
               "Yes, yes. It went hard with Mr. Geoffrey, though; and he's not a man to be easy moved; but, Lord, Lord! who can see a dumb creature suffer! Bruno's best out of his misery. Poor dog!"
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "I had a temple and a shrine,
                        All hidden, fair for me alone;
                        I came with gifts, I came with wine,
                        My best to serve this love of mine,
                        And there was nothing but a stone."
                     
                  
               
               I WAS lying back in a chair with nothing to do but close my eyes and muse upon the sparks of fire flaming and hissing, or listen to the rain beating drearily against the panes, when the door opened, admitting Mr. Brent. Drawing a chair beside mine, he made me recount the circumstances that had brought my old nurse and myself in the storm to the chalet.
               "You don't know how sorry I am for your dog," I said, when finishing my explanation.
               He replied in a grave tone,—
               "You are? Well, I would sacrifice much that this had not happened. Bruno is dead, poor fellow! after serving me more faithfully than human friend has ever done or ever will do."
               "You are displeased with me, then, as the cause of his death!" I exclaimed, flushing angrily. "If I could, sir, I'd willingly give you a hundred like him."
               "A hundred like him!" returned he, with emphasis. "A hundred like him could not supply his place. But you're mistaken; I'm not at all angry with you; on the contrary, poor child, long ago would this arm have felled the dog senseless to have averted such a calamity. But I think you should make me some reparation for his loss; I really think you should."
               "And that reparation?" I queried, turning to the fire a pleased countenance.
               "That you promise to be to me as good and faithful a friend as poor Bruno."
               "Oh, no, indeed, sir!" I laughed triumphantly. "Don't you know in novels, when an enemy of a certain person visits him upon pretense of friendliness, if there's a dog within a quarter of a mile he'll bristle up, expressing his disapproval of the aforesaid enemy by prolonged howls? Bruno warned you against me; I warn you against myself. You must never dream of regarding me as your friend now."
               Mr. Brent, instead of receiving my speech as a jest, appeared slightly annoyed, and a frown so portentous darkened his brow that, feeling sorry for having angered him, I exclaimed, for the mere sake of saying something, "How fast the rain is falling!"
               This brilliant remark, however, elicited no reply.
               "What an ugly gown is this!" he muttered, presently, scrutinizing with disapprobation my dark stuff dress. "A fay should be decked in greens and rainbow-tints, as you were when I found you that day in the church-yard. By the by, do you know you were quite a picture, with that red hair blowing about your temples, a hat swinging from your arm, and grass clinging to your dress?—it was a light, airy dress, I remember."
               "My hair isn't red," I pouted.
               "No," he laughed; "you would call it auburn, no doubt. I suppose you would like me to say, too, it is a pretty auburn; but, conscientiously, I could not say that. I don't admire that color in hair at all."
               "Do you think, sir, if I could, that I'd change it to please you?"
               "Why, certainly you would" (with an amused smile); "you're a woman, therefore you've vanity enough to go to extreme lengths even to please your grandfather."
               "I couldn't do that, sir; my grandfather is dead."
               "Oh, he is!" He went into an inner room then, and, returning, came towards me with a pleased countenance, holding in his hand a crimson shawl. "Here, little Fay, this will make a pretty contrast to that dark gown, together with the green of the chair-back." Throwing it over my shoulders, he stood off to criticise the effect with an approving nod. "That is much better; I've a fancy for bright opposites."
               "Whose shawl is this, sir?"
               A shade flitted over his brow, and, looking at it, he said, moodily but carelessly, "I believe it was left by accident here an evening or two ago by a lady who, in company with a half-dozen or more, was kind enough to honor my chalet by a visit."
               "Oh, then," I cried, unguardedly, "this is Ogre Castle, and here I am a prisoner in it after all."
               "Ha? what is this?—Ogre Castle?"
               And then I told him about the journey, and how his brother Walter and Squire Briarly had almost driven me wild with their chatter about Geoffrey, Geoffrey; and recounted to him my fancy in regard to Ogre Castle,—he as the ferocious Lord Ogre, myself as a fairy princess, etc.
               "You have indeed received cruel treatment," he exclaimed; "but surely the ogre is striving to make amends, is he not? I think you are wrong, though. Probably Wildmoor should have to be termed Ogre Castle. You are now at Thorndale,—Walter's property,—which is quite in an opposite direction from that of his real home. Come to this window, and you may see the manor, with a portion of the park leading from the oak avenue."
               I did as bidden, and stood at the casement while he pointed out the keeper's lodge, the leafy park glades, an avenue of giant oaks, and, beyond, a great brick manor-house with dormer-windows and peaked roof-top.
               And what a dear little room was that which sheltered me! with its array of books and oaken furniture, its flower-laden windows, its curtains stirring gently in the wind, I thought it the most charming nook in the world; and how I chattered to Mr. Brent,—on and on through tangles of thought, tripping up occasionally upon dangerous and venturesome ground, but never dallying by the wayside! I forgot to think about his little sister and his possible troop of children; and evidently he was pleased; for smiles began to chase one another about his serious mouth; even the eyes, once, cast off their severity, and deigned to bend amusedly towards me.
               "The prospect is rather a dreary one in this sort of weather," he explained; "but you should see Wildmoor, Miss Vairin. It is a grand old place."
               "I don't like it at all," I said; "this is far, far prettier."
               He faced round upon me suddenly at that, and with surprise in his tone exclaimed, "Why, when have you seen Wildmoor?—when were you there?"
               The scrutiny of that piercing gaze was more than I could brace myself against. "N-never! I haven't seen it at all," I ejaculated, pettishly.
               "Then don't tell fibs, Fay. I detect them invariably. You must come over, though, soon, and Nell will take delight in acting as your cicerone; it is well worth seeing."
               "I suppose, sir," exclaimed I, with hauteur,—"I suppose the very bluest blood of England runs in the veins of Wildmoor people?"
               A satirical smile hovered to his lips, and in half-mocking strain he spoke as follows:
               "Why, yes, we're a fearfully ancient family; came over from Normandy with the Conqueror; distinguished ourselves in the feuds between York and Lancaster; fought with the Black Prince; hustled out the Pretender; some of us went to the Crimea, while others even served under the glorious Duke at Waterloo; some of our bones, too, are bleaching beneath the sun of India. I assure you, young lady, we've done wonderful exploits in our day."
               I went back to my chair again, feeling vexed, and thoroughly snappish. (People are so hateful.) Janet was spreading a tiny table with some delicately-beautiful napery. And just then Mrs. Rose, the housekeeper at Thorndale, emerged from an inner room, bearing a tray replete with tea-service and choice viands.
               
               "You perceive, Miss Vairin," exclaimed Mr. Brent, with a wave of the hand in her direction, "I have only to bestow my ogreish orders, and, lo! they are fulfilled. So much for personating Lord Ogre! My management of Thorndale during Walter's minority causes my presence to be necessary there at least two days out of the week; so I've supplied this chalet with conveniences and comforts; it being a spot quite cheerful and retired, I am always glad to retreat here for solitude when too roughly pressed by the world."
               "Is your brother yet a minor?" I inquired.
               "Yes, but he will come of age in August. Still, as he is to pursue the study of a profession, I shall be able to make these my quarters for a number of years yet."
               "But I should think, sir, you would find it more convenient and comfortable at the manor."
               "I? No, Miss Vairin; it is enough, indeed, that I'm within the grounds." He bit his lip saying this, and turned moodily to the casement again. What had I done or said to make him angry?
               The tinkling of a bell soon caused me to direct my thoughts in another channel; the two women were gossiping in an adjoining room, but the table stood in readiness; how it shone and sparkled!—rich in silver, glittering in glassware, and gay with a vase of flowers. My host, recovering from his ill humor, sauntered leisurely towards it.
               "Now, as you're the little girl who planned a trap to drown my throat in steaming water, and who, failing, hid herself in a passion, out in papa's garden, and who, soliloquizing, loudly gave utterance to an expression such as this, 'Will that hateful Mr. Brent ever go?'—as you're the little girl, I repeat, who accomplished this lot of mischief, I think it quite necessary you should gain wisdom at once, and forthwith. Fay, you shall make my tea." So said Mr. Brent, as he placed a chair for me before the service.
               I held up my right hand ominously and shook my head. "How can I, with this bandage weighing me down?"
               "Nevertheless, you must do it," he returned. And before I could remonstrate, he was filling a teaspoon with the fragrant grant herb. "See, this is for you." Then he made me take the spoon in my left, and drop the tea into the urn; afterwards, another spoonful was placed in my hand, with the explanation, "This, now, will be for me. For each individual, Fay, always measure out the contents of a spoon; your beverage will then be suitably strong," he advised.
               I was deputized presently to pour some boiling water into the urn, and so received my first lesson in the art of tea-making. Mr. Brent drank two cupfuls, and assured me with quite an air of humility that in flavor it really surpassed that of his own manufacture. "You see," explained he, "a crusty old bachelor must be wise in matters of this kind; usually I've had to make my own tea when taking luncheon here; it's rather a dreary business, though, I must confess."
               An early twilight was creeping into the room; the rain came softly dripping upon the roof, and from the ledges of the windows; it pattered so slowly down, and fell with so musical a cadence upon the ear, that I could only think of the tinkling conchs of fairy bells, wondering if there were not that bright land of elfin-hood nearer earth than common folk dreamed of. It was pleasant, too, to hear the crackling of the logs upon the hearth, and to lie back in a great chair, knowing myself safe and happy, while out among the pines there was terror, darkness, and loneliness. We had pushed back from the table, and the edibles were being borne away by Janet and the housekeeper.
               "Mr. Vairin tells me he knew my father when a student at Oxford; but, strange, I've never heard the latter mention that name. I remember, too, how fond he was of recalling the associations of early youth," mused my companion, aloud; "but a college term, when ended, scatters friends far and wide, who probably never meet together again."
               "In what part of the country did you reside before coming to Westmorland, Miss Vairin?" he asked, after a slight pause.
               "Not in England at all, sir; in France, where I was put to school, and not let come out for nine long years."
               "Why, you must be a very wise little lady. I suppose you speak French, and translate Greek and Latin, and play on the harp and piano, and have all the ologies at your tongue's end?"
               "Oh, no!" I cried, laughing; "no, indeed; I'm not at all wise; speak French, of course, having been with Madame La Sagesse for so long; we had Italian and German masters, and I can translate Tasso pretty well, I believe, and Faust; but I play execrably on the piano; the guitar I do better, because the singing drowns the touch of my fingers."
               Then he spoke of deeper, graver subjects, and, in the new pleasure of being entertained by so earnest, so eloquent a speaker, I quite forgot that he was almost an utter stranger to me, and told much of that new trouble which was beginning to coil its folds about my life; for, as we talked on in the twilight, I found myself, with a great, shuddering cry, speaking of my fears about papa, and of what the doctor had said about his heart being diseased, and of how much I longed to know if there was not something that could be done to restore him once more to vigorous health; and so it happened that ere long Mr. Brent, yielding to my half-expressed entreaties, promised that, upon a further acquaintance, he would endeavor to bear forcibly down upon the importance of the subject, essaying to persuade papa to consult the county physician,—a man of highest standing throughout the Northern district; furthermore he promised that, favorable or otherwise, he would apprise me of the result, and concluded by bidding me hope always for the brighter shades of life, etc., etc.
               The rain had ceased. "How am I to get home, though, I wonder?" This thought was almost immediately answered, for the housekeeper, entering hastily, exclaimed, "La, Mr. Geoffrey, there comes Mrs. Dashwood's brougham, with Mrs. Dashwood herself in it; shall I let her in here?"
               "Certainly, admit her," Mr. Brent answered, in an irritated tone; "certainly: why not?" He moved to the door, muttering from between his teeth, "What in heaven's name brings the woman out such an evening?" His tone of voice quite expressed the fact that he deemed it about the most unwise and disagreeable thing any woman could have hazarded. Presently, a slight tumult outside, and then the lady bustled in. Coming directly to my chair, she leant over, and kissed me on the cheek, saying, "Oh, my poor, poor child, what an unfortunate accident! How did you ever get over it?"
               "Why, Mrs. Dashwood, how did you get wind of this matter so soon?" exclaimed Mr. Brent.
               She tossed her head saucily at him and laughed. "My dear sir, I'm quite another Machiavelli, am I not? I've my emissaries in every court, you must remember. But, seriously speaking, one of the grooms was at Thorndale when the accident occurred; as soon as he gained full particulars he came cantering home to inform me of the sad occurrence. (Are you very badly hurt, my love?) And, really, I've been in a fever of impatience ever since to come over and take the dear girl home with me for the night. Indeed, she mustn't think of returning to the abbey, as the sky is threatening, and a plentiful rain is ominous. Will you come, my love?"
               "But papa will be uneasy," I objected; "I had rather go home, for he'll not know where I am."
               "No," imperatively argued Mr. Brent, "I'll take care of that; you had better return with Mrs. Dashwood, Miss Vairin. I shall be able to call at the abbey and assure your father of your safety." His tone was chill and haughty, and as he spoke those stern eyes scarcely deigned to sweep towards me; in my turn, then, much offended, I rose immediately, and in demeanor flattered myself I could bear off the palm for stateliness as well as he. In a moment or two I found myself in possession of Mrs. Dashwood's brougham, with Mrs. Dashwood herself gayly conversing beside me, and with my poor old Janet straightened up upon an opposite seat, looking so grim and gaunt that I was obliged to turn aside to conceal a smile at her expense.
               For about a mile we drove along; then, entering a lodge-gate, passed beneath the drip, drip of numberless oak-trees, until, with the pausing of the vehicle, I concluded myself before Mrs. Dashwood's hospitable portals. It was even so. We were ushered into an oaken hall, and from thence marshaled up a stairway into a boudoir that was all ablaze with waxen lights, and that contained but one occupant,—the Lady Ada.
               
               With a slight elevation of the eyebrows and a bare touch of her fingers, she drawled. "D'ye do, Miss Vairin?"
               "Why, Ada, my love," exclaimed the elder sister, when removing my wrap,—"why, if this isn't your missing shawl!" (to me) "Where did you get it, my dear?"
               Then, receiving my explanation of matters, she continued, gleefully, "Ah, yes! that precious sister of mine is again making sad havoc of somebody's heart. Ada, why will you encourage the poor man, if you're only flirting with him?"
               "I'm not flirting with anybody, that I'm aware of," languidly protested my lady, scarcely raising her ivory lids from the pages of a novel she seemed rather contemplating than perusing.
               I think she is about two-and-thirty years of age; but, oh, so fair-faced and wonderfully placid in manner, that I've no doubt she'll carry her beauty long years hence, when girls now in their teens shall be faded and sad-eyed. I hardly believe, my good journal, I like her at all. Isn't it singular how one contrives to love some people and dislike others?
               They had dined early that evening, so presently a maid entered, bearing a tray laden with hot-house fruit, golden slices of cake, ices, and flanked by a battalion of goblets in which sparkled some flashing amber wine. My hostess pressed upon my acceptance these delicacies. Having partaken largely of that meal at the chalet, of course I could only trifle over a grape or two, peck at a morsel of cake, and make a faint display over an ice. At last, with a chill exclamation from my lady, "She minces like any blackbird, poor little thing!" I leaned wearily back on the divan, manifesting but a feeble effort to stifle a yawn.
               The cry of a child was just then heard, and there stepped over the threshold a tiny figure bearing in its arms an infant of seven months or thereabouts. "Oh, my lovely baby!" screamed Mrs. Dashwood, darting forward, and almost upsetting the figure on her way. "Oh, my beautiful one, come to its mother that hasn't seen it for 'most all day!"
               There ensued a struggle, and the child, ineffectually clinging to the little nurse's neck, was at last torn sobbing therefrom.
               The tiny figure was but a mite of a girl, and, as I gazed at her in some curiosity, it suddenly flashed over me that once before I had encountered the wistfulness of those large eyes. While the mother was soothing into quiet her child's wails, its nurse stood oddly peering at me from behind a great chair.
               It was a trim little figure, but very thin, with face pinched somewhat and sallow; there was, too, a foreign air about those dark, elfin locks, and those eyes of midnight splendor. She coughed terribly once or twice, but nobody seemed to mind it, although it startled me from the state of desolate indifference into which I had fallen.
               "Sarah Jane," exclaimed the mistress presently,—"Sarah Jane, see that Mason brings the children for prayers!"
               With a scowl upon her brow, the small maid slipped from the room to deliver the errand.
               "That's one of my charity children, Miss Vairin," explained Mrs. Dashwood; "a little Italian whom I picked up in London. Nobody in the house can manage this cherub as she can, for it's really marvelous the fancy my pretty one has taken for her; indeed, Mason has quite given up duties as baby-nurse, contenting herself with looking after the elder children alone. My society interests take up the greater portion of my time; but, at any rate, these dear babies are no sufferers thereby. At night I'm thoroughly tired; and so, you perceive, I'm really obliged to avoid the nursery, and send for the children to come to me."
               Here "Sarah Jane" returned, convoying in her rear a group of three; little white-robed figures that went down on their knees before their mother, and, clasping hands upon her lap, lisped forth some sleepy prayers. When these orisons were completed, she kissed each rose-bud mouth; they were then safely convoyed back to the nursery, and afterwards the maid, reappearing and taking the babe from its mother's arms, left the apartment.
               "No doubt, my love, you would like to be shown your room; I will ring for candles."
               In about an hour from the deliverance of this order for lights, I was being guided by my hostess along hall and corridor, and soon found myself in a western chamber, with an oriel at one end, and an air of brightness and cheerfulness pervading it; within the oriel I drew a cushion, and, sinking down upon it, listened to the raindrops pattering outside upon the roof, that came with a dreamy cadence to my ears. Mrs. Dashwood, after roving restlessly about the room for at least five minutes, hovering mutely over each article of furniture the while, wheeled up a fauteuil close beside me, and, first lifting the curtain, looked out with a shudder, then dropped it, and said, suddenly,—
               "Strange your papa has never married again, my dear. Don't you think him real charming? Not old-looking at all for his age. Strange he's never married."
               "I don't think him at all charming," I said, deprecating the thought of another marriage for him.
               
               "Why, my love; and such a father as you have!"
               "He's not charming, though," I protested; "he's very nice, but there's nothing charming about him."
               And if she had to live with my papa, she'd deem him anything but charming. Poor, noble, proud papa!
               "Well, my love, you know somebody real young and pretty would be so nice a companion for you. But, by the by, how do you like Mr. Brent?"
               There was a pause before I answered; but my cheeks flushed hotly beneath the intensity of her gaze, and I managed to stammer out, "I don't like him,—that is—n—not much."
               "Oh, you don't! What a pity, isn't it, that he should be leading almost as sad a life as his father?"
               "What caused his father's sadness of life?"
               "Oh, I forget you know nothing of us north-county folk. Well, my dear, there was a long story about it; of course I have it only from hearsay, as it happened a trifle before my day."
               "I'm an excellent listener, Mrs. Dashwood; so please treat me to the story, won't you?" And I settled myself comfortably, drawing my bandaged hand into a warmer nest in my lap, and bending nearer her, eager for the promised narration. The lady smoothed out a wrinkle in the front fold of her dress, and then went on to speak:
               "You must understand that the present Mr. Brent's father was also named Geoffrey; there was, besides, a Walter Brent, some years older than himself, a cousin, and a young man then proprietor of one of the finest estates in all the county,—that of Thorndale.
               "The former was a student at Oxford, expecting to do wonders in the way of degrees and scholarships; but the latter cared only for the sports of field and turf, and was the blithest young man in the shire. Well, as luck would have it, in careering around the county, he won the affections of a young lady, the acknowledged belle of every ball, rout, and fête for miles around; indeed, rumor had it, her beauty of face and form was without rival. In due time they plighted troth, one to the other, and were just as happy, my dear, as if they expected the sun to be always shining, and love a thing of truth and constancy forever. Foolish, foolish children!
               "At last student Geoffrey came home to Wildmoor, a grave, reticent young fellow, who held his head high and grand in the world; and straightway the silly boy must fall in love with his cousin's betrothed, not knowing that any one held a prior claim upon her heart. Of course she refused him. He went back to Oxford, took his degree, and was graduated from thence with honor. In the mean time Walter had started forth to make a tour of Southern Europe. They say he was liked and esteemed, dear, far and wide; so the cruel trick practiced upon him roused to an extreme the indignation of the county-folk,—and no wonder!
               "Fate is a strange, strange ruler of young people's destiny, my love; sometimes playing most wonderful pranks with their actions and motives. She seized upon Geoffrey with fatal talons when upon his homeward route from college he had got as far as the railway-station of L——. There a groom met him with a horse, and the two set out rapidly for home; but upon the route a strange gentleman joined the traveler, and entered into conversation with him, proving to be thoroughly acquainted with the neighborhood. Coming to a turn of the road, the stranger drew from his pocket a letter, and in polite tones requested Mr. Brent to deliver it to the lady whose address was upon it. He had only returned from Florence ence, he stated; had there met with Walter, who, hearing he was to come immediately across country to England, had intrusted to him this letter for delivery.
               "So the poor fellow, they say, received the epistle, and, perhaps yearning for a meeting with his old love, started forthwith down into the West Riding, where she resided. Instead of remaining but an hour or so at her father's mansion, he lingered one, two weeks. And now listen, my dear; there was a reason for that.
               "Upon perusing the contents of her letter, the young lady tore it into bits before him, and in a gay, cheery voice announced the fact that her engagement with Walter Brent was happily at an end forever!
               "Ah! a man is easily made a fool of when the toils of love close round upon him. From that moment when those fatal bits of paper fluttered to the floor, Geoffrey read in his companion's eyes a new story; a story that held out to him cheer and gladness for his hitherto unfortunate hopes; and, lo! when, at the end of two weeks, he returned to Wildmoor, it was to put the old place in readiness for a fair young bride; and a fortnight after he again went down into Yorkshire, but then, and with cruel haste, it was to cause the parish-bells to peal forth a wedding-harmony.
               "A maid, who accompanied the bride to Wildmoor, told my old nurse the whole story; so, my dear, she is the authority I vouch for my narrative.
               "Her young lady, she said, who, at the time, was barely eighteen, seemed a beautiful picture, in her glossy silk dress, and lace veil falling about her like the light of morning. They were a youthful couple,—Geoffrey but two-and-twenty, yet a young fellow who commanded the respect of men even gray with age. The wedding was fixed for an early winter morning. When the bridal party returned from church, the poor young thing stole up to her own room, and, unlocking an ebony casket, took from thence a package of letters and a sprig of sweet-brier,—a dead, crushed thing, though,—tossing them all into the fire; she stood before it white, and, with a stony blankness creeping over her features, watched the flame wreathe around the package and the flower-branch; when the blaze curled about, shot fiercely up into a glare, then perished, with the old love-tokens dead within it, she fell upon the floor all in a heap, her silks, her laces, and her flowers crushed fearfully.
               "The young husband, coming to seek his bride, found her thus; he lifted her in his arms, while his lips grew ashy pale, and his voice shook like a leaf as he called her name in accents of anguish.
               "A month passed quietly enough upon their coming to Wildmoor; when, one day, who should come tearing into the park like a madman but Walter Brent? Ah, my dear, there was a fearful scene for you! Geoffrey's young wife sat like a marble statue, and listened to the story of her wrongs.
               "That cruel letter which she had not received through the post was a vile forgery; Walter swore he had never penned aught to her other than in the true lover words; he had met no gentleman in Florence by whom he had forwarded any epistle. He was a victim to some villainous treachery, and, by the heaven above them, would take vengeance upon the destroyer of his happiness.
               "And what do you think he did, my love?
               "Why, straightway branded his cousin Geoffrey as the man who had worked this ruin!"
               "Maybe it was he," I interrupted, triumphantly.
               Mrs. Dashwood shrugged her shoulders. "No telling; I've never heard any sequel as yet contradicting or asserting the truth of the tale; but as for me, I believe in the pure integrity of that honest character, dead, alas! these many years.
               "Well, as I was saying, Walter branded his cousin as the man who had worked his ruin; he scoffed the simple story of his having met with a stranger who charged him with the delivery of the aforesaid letter. He would demand satisfaction, etc., and, finally, might have turned from the house in his maddened, infuriated condition, had not the young wife, pleading with face wet in tears and voice loud in agony, even kneeling before him, cried mercy for herself and him. Her life was dark for all time; would he blast its slight remnant of sunshine by putting a ban of murder between them? She loved him alone; would he not, therefore, spare her the ineffable misery of seeing him dead by her husband's hand? So he was led to pledge her a promise never to put himself in Geoffrey's path; never to drag up that feud into the light of day, but, burying it from sight, to turn from its grave forever! And so he did; for that same day Walter forsook England,—a changed, moody man.
               "To go back, though. When Geoffrey Brent returned from the business trip he had been making down to London, riding in hot haste to rejoin his beautiful wife, he encountered in her place a wronged woman, who stood up before him to accuse him of treachery and falsehood. She was cold as stone, pitiless as steel, and showed him not a grain of mercy.
               "But a proud man he was, rigidly exacting in his duty to God and his fellow-beings; and with one sentence of stern denial he refuted the accusation; one calm, noble sentence!
               "The poor young thing, though, would not believe him; would not hearken to any voice save that of her outraged love, and for days after kept her room, frantically pacing its length, as a bird of the wood suddenly snared and bound might have beat the wires of its gilded cage.
               "Well, the years slipped by, but husband and wife moved on, cold and reserved to each other. Geoffrey, their eldest child, grew up the counterpart of his father, both in person and character; but with the coming of another boy, fair-haired and blue-eyed, the mother insisted upon calling him Walter; and he it is, my dear, to whom his uncle left a legacy,—his fair estate of Thorndale.
               "The present Geoffrey felt himself an alien from his mother's love (for she poured the wealth of her affection full upon her second boy), and at an early age seemed elevated to a sort of companionship with his father; being a child of strong attachments and keen observation, he could understand somewhat of the home jar, and so bestowed upon his unhappy parent an idolatrous affection.
               "When a youth, he received all the advantages of a University education, and was fitting himself for practice at the bar, when a heavy sorrow fell full upon him. I refer to the death of his father. Then for a season he gave up study, remaining home to take counsel with his mother as to her future. But there he and my sweet Ada, having for years been boy and girl lovers, must needs plight solemn troth together, like a pair of great silly children. Geoffrey was only nineteen then; back to the University he hastened to complete his course, but two years after was summoned home; the mistress of Wildmoor was dangerously ill, and expired in a day or two from the period of her son's arrival; and so, a youth of twenty-one, he found himself the head of a family.
               "There was but one course to follow; his profession must of necessity be relinquished, and himself content to lead the humdrum life of a county gentleman! He was so proud, so ambitious a lad, it must have been hard for him to resign those dreams of future greatness. Poor fellow! troubles rolled upon him one after another in rapid succession.
               "At that time my sweet Ada was taking a first season in London; and there she stumbled upon a gouty baronet (but rich as Crœsus he was, my love, and from a fine old family). Well, without an inkling of the fact to Geoffrey, though she corresponded with him punctually, and wrote always the sweetest of letters, what must she do but marry poor old Sir Michael in town! The papers, though, said it was the most brilliant wedding that had occurred in Hanover Square for years; praised the diamonds, toilets, family plate, etc.; so of course my sweet girl wasn't so much to be blamed for discarding poor Geoffrey Brent."
               "What did he do when the news reached him?" I asked.
               "Do, my dear? what could he do? But he was madly in love with her, I tell you,—madly in love,—and I dare say it was a terrible shock to him; one from which he, doubtless, will never recover."
               There was a sudden cessation of Mrs. Dashwood's voice, and again she lifted the window-drapery, looked out into the night, shivered, then dropped the curtain, with a shrug of her shoulders.
               "Does he love her now?" I broke the silence by abruptly asking.
               "Why, Miss Vairin, the poor fellow has never, one moment of his life, ceased to care for her. And now that Sir Michael is dead, he'd marry her to-morrow if she'd have him."
               "Then, if I were Mr. Brent," exclaimed I, "I'd die sooner than marry her; she cheated him terribly, I think."
               "So she did, so she did; but, my love, young girls are too ready to die when there's not the slightest necessity for a sacrifice. Mr. Brent is a proud man, but I've seen him overmastered by the passion of love; unless he marries my sweet Ada he swears never to marry mortal! So it would be quite absurd for any young person to throw herself in his way, or to fancy she could captivate him, or to be so unmaidenly as to give rein to her enthusiasm, by imagining herself in love with a man who is an icicle to all women save one; it would be very absurd, wouldn't it?"
               "Very absurd," I echoed, my thoughts straying off into a wilderness of folly.
               My companion now seemed thoroughly fascinated by the outer night scene. "Is there a young person throwing herself in his way?" said I, wonderingly, and with evident reluctance her head emerged again into view from behind the hangings.
               "How very practical you are, my love! A young person! Well, really, h-h-hm; but, you know, there's no accounting for young people's fancies and follies. Ada, perhaps, will marry him finally; but h-h-hush, don't tell papa anything."
               "My papa wouldn't care if she married the king," I murmured, querulously; "he don't think about such things."
               "Oh, don't he?" She smiled approvingly upon me, and, taking my hand, stroked it between hers, as if mentally saying, "Poor 'ittle tittle bitsy itsy sing: don't know anything, no it don't, and shouldn't know anything, either."
               "So you see, my love, like father, like son. Love proved a ruin to the former; it may also to the latter; his life is a wreck, he says, shattered into nothing." How angry she made me, for she would persist in talking about that Mr. Brent! It appears to me that people take a delight in vexing and harassing poor little me.
               Then I made answer, quite wrathfully, "I believe his father deserved to be miserable, Mrs. Dashwood! I believe he did forge that letter to win his cousin's betrothed. No doubt the son, too, is undergoing a retribution for some of his misdeeds. I never put trust in these proverbially good people."
               "Oh, no, no, my sweet child" (with an approving smile); "you quite mistake the gentleman's character. I only hope he may be able to persuade my gentle Ada into smiling upon his fond hopes. Poor fellow! his life has been a sad one; and—would you believe?—he never enters Thorndale Manor but when absolutely compelled by circumstances. To avoid the disagreeable task is why he had that chalet built, and whatever business concerning the place is to be transacted, takes place there. But here am I keeping you from getting to bed after this day of excitement. Does your hand pain? Yes? And so badly? Is there nothing, now are you quite sure there is nothing more I can do for you? Shall I unbind your hair? There, now, if you need anything, be sure and let me know; just touch the bell-rope. Good-night, my dear girl."
               While lingering in the room for these final clauses, the lady seemed imbued with a deeper sense of her sudden attachment to me, ever and anon stooping to fondle my hand or to twine a curl around her finger. She is very kind in manner; the touch of her fingers is gentle; her language bubbles over with terms of endearment; yet in my heart am I conscious of a lack of appreciation for these honeyed items. I cannot feel a softness creeping over me, a mist stealing into my eyes, nor a longing to slip down on my knees and rest my head upon her lap, as I felt towards the Squire's little lady before she had uttered a half-dozen words. There is no trust, no stamp of motherhood, in Mrs. Dashwood's countenance to draw one towards her as the dew seeks the flower, or as a river finds the sea.
               Some true women are put in the world as a tree is planted along the high-road.
               Weary travelers, we tarry a moment in our journey on to the goal, to seek shelter beneath its green branches, to lie upon its velvet grass-banks, and to listen to the birds singing from its topmost boughs. How the hearts within us ache when we look out upon the white road-line, and see the glare of noon burning down upon it, the while thinking of those miles and miles yet to be traversed!
               
               Oh, thank God for the cherry-lipped women that give us shelter on the way, and send us forth at last with a memory of song gurgling fresh from their hearts, and the vision of faces fairer than the morning star looking out upon us, as we leave the cool verdure for a struggle in the onward path!
               That night I slept well, barely awakening the following morning when a light tap touched my door. Upon calling, "Come in," a figure crept in on tiptoe to the bedside, saying, "Mrs. Dashwood sent me to see if you were awake, lady, and if you were, to ask if I should summon your maid."
               "Who?—Janet?" I said, fully roused then, and springing out of bed.
               "If you please, miss, yes; but, if you'd not object, I'd so like to wait on you instead."
               "You, child? Why, how old are you?"
               "Fourteen, miss."
               Indeed! And she barely looks ten. Feeling an interest in the girl, and wishing to know more of her, I acceded to the request, and soon, with some slight difficulty, found the manipulations of my toilet completed.
               "Can this be the same world," mused I, when, upon lifting the curtain, a gorgeous scene met my gaze—" can this be the same world that yesterday fretted and moaned so sullenly?" The sunshine came streaming over the landscape sparkling and bubbling as ruby wine when poured from a golden-hued tankard. The skies had wept away all sulkiness, and were bending downward, a vision of meadows with blue and white sheep dotting the fleecy grasses; trees were green and fresh; flowers were coquetting with the breeze; and the birds came swooping past my window, trilling their joy in glad and glorious song. What it is to live! I would not exchange my sympathy with this broad fabric of world for the sceptre of a queen; God has implanted in my soul a tenderness for every wild flower and blade of lowly grass that I would not resign but with life itself. I can never be very unhappy; oh, no, no! Not while there are birds to sing, or roses to bloom, or skies to transcribe their fairness into picture and story. God has been so good to me, I think!
               I sat down beside the lattice to feast my heart upon the scene.
               "If you please, lady," pleaded a timid voice from behind, "don't call me 'Sarah Jane.'"
               The little maid yet lingered in the apartment, as if loth to go, and when, smiling at her earnestness of tone, I looked around, and said, "Why, what shall I call you?" she approached, exclaiming, eagerly, "My name is Isola, lady, and—and——"
               Tears were dropping from her great, sad eyes; there was a richness in her voice betokening an echo from that Southern clime with its starry splendor of midnights and blue of sunny noontides.
               "Isola," I repeated the name after her; "it is very pretty,—nay, beautiful, child; they should call you so."
               "Oh, dear lady," and she sprang beside me, dropping upon bended knees and looking fondly in my face,—"oh, dear lady, when I saw you first in church, you made me think of my mother; nobody ever made me think of my mother before."
               "And why do I make you think of her?" I inquired, encouragingly.
               "Because there was gold on her hair like on yours, and a rose on her cheeks like yours; and because she looked like the beautiful Madonna Mary, and you look like her, too. See" (she unwound from her neck a ribbon to which was attached a large locket),—"see, this is my beautiful Madonna Mary."
               Upon pressing a spring, there was disclosed to view a female head of surpassing loveliness; a picture of the pre-Raphaelite style, I think, with the eyes a violet blue, the hair glittering upon a brow of sweetest moulding, and a glory resting on all the features,—a glory not of earth, but a something akin to that fair and wonderful city beyond the clouds.
               "Is your mother dead, Isola?"
               "Yes, yes; she died when I was nine years old. She was a Veronese, lady; and when my father was drowned at sea, we came to London to get work; but she died there, and left me all alone. She had the most beautiful face in the world; not dark, like mine, but fair as is yours; and, oh! the kindest, sweetest eyes. And your voice, lady, it makes me think of her, too; it is so low and gentle, and it touches something here" (striking her breast), "and I have to bite my lip for fear of crying out when you speak."
               "Poor little Isola!" I murmured, involuntarily, thinking perhaps of my own fancies that come sorrowing to brood in my bosom.
               "Mrs. Dashwood is very good, miss; but she won't call me my own name, and she makes me go to church where they never say 'Ave Maria,' and never hang a picture of the Madonna Mother; but I look at this, and repeat my own Ave Marias as my mother taught me long ago."
               "And does the Madonna Mother hear you, child?"
               "Oh, yes, lady; at night sometimes I lie awake, and think I see her standing before me, only I cannot touch her. But on stormy nights, when the wind is howling up and down, and the rain is falling, and it is so dark,—and oh!" (shuddering) "I'm afraid of the dark,—you don't know how she comes to me a beautiful, shining lady, and takes my hand, and then I'm not afraid any more." Her voice here sank to a whisper. "Often, too, at night I can't sleep for coughing; such terrible coughs, that make my handkerchief all stained with blood, and then I hide my face in the pillow because I'm frightened, and dare not cry. If I didn't say my Ave Maria, and call for the Madonna Mother, then I think I should die sometimes; it is a fearful thing to be all alone in the long, dark night."
               "Does Mrs. Dashwood know how badly you cough?"
               "To be sure, lady; and she's very kind; she's been giving me medicine for a whole year now. Sometimes, though, I think it will never be well; for when it hurts me here, nothing, nothing will ease the pain."
               I couldn't speak then, for the sad wistfulness of those eyes touched me too deeply for words to find utterance; but I lifted her hand and stroked it soothingly, and perhaps saw a great tear glistening upon the tiny fingers; the very thinnest hand it is, dear journal, I have ever seen; thin, and so white. In the midst of the reverie that stole upon me unawares the fretful complainings of a young child came sounding into the room. The little girl started.
               "May I bring baby, and come back again?" asked she, anxiously.
               "Yes," I said; "but, Isola, how do you manage to carry that child?"
               "Why, I'm very strong, miss; and—and—it's so fond of me." She darted from the apartment then, a smile chasing away the sudden unpleasantness that had darkened her countenance.
               "Poor Isola!" I thought; "she is not to have many years of life. How sorry I am for her! how much I would hate dying, especially when the morns are fair as this!"
               After the lapse of some minutes, the little girl entered, with the child in her arms. "Let me hold him a moment," said I, in my sweetest tone (the one generally adopted by females when in the near vicinity of infants).
               She placed the little one in my arms; but, unable to clutch it except with one hand, I soon found there was nothing to be envied in the vocation of nurse; a baby is a creature so uncertain of tenure; limber in form, and of rotary motion in head, one moment you are forced to cry out, "Oh, its back!" another, "Heavens, its feet!" and in despair I relinquished it, leaning back in my chair, and conscious of no very agreeable sensation towards baby.
               "Did you ever teach in the church-school?" suddenly asked Isola.
               "The church-school?"
               "Why, yes, miss; where there are classes, and where we learn hymns."
               "You mean the Sabbath-school. No, I never did."
               "I wish you'd do it, lady; oh, I wish you would!"
               "I thought, child, you didn't like to go to that church."
               "I like it," she returned, with emphasis. "I meant that I'd like it better if they'd put the beautiful Madonna Mary near the chancel, and chant the Ave Marias; when the organ plays low and sweet it seems like heaven to me. But if you'd teach the lessons, I'd so love to go then. Mr. Brent would let you."
               "What has Mr. Brent to do with it?"
               "I don't know quite, miss; but they made him have something to do with it, so that he has to know whether the scholars learn, and whether everything goes on right."
               
               "I wish there was some work for me in the world somewhere," I murmured, lazily. "I wonder what sort of a Sunday-school teacher I would make, anyhow?"
               This brief soliloquy was interrupted by the entrance of Mrs. Dashwood, who sweetly proceeded to recommend Isola from the room, and to overwhelm me with "my loves" and "my dears," and finally to conduct me down the staircase into a large drawing-room. I shiver now when I think of the three long hours that elapsed ere the carriage came over from Stanley Abbey to take me home; when I think of the lengthened sweetnesses of my hostess's adieux, and of the languid indifference manifested by Lady Ada. But when we were safely whirling away, I laughed aloud at the scowls lowering upon Janet's brow, and the jeremiads she launched upon the heads of those left behind at the manor.
               "To think," said she, "they wouldn't let me go near you last night, nor this mornin', and you that ain't able to comb your hair with such a hand. I was mad, I was indeed. They thought me an old fool, did they? Well, no wonder; at my time of life to be prowlin' around a strange country in the rain! A nice mess you've made of it, Miss Hope; there's no tellin' what'll come of this folly."
               The more she railed the more I laughed. My poor old dear! One that didn't know her would imagine her the crossest, the unkindest old darling in the world. She hugely enjoys indulging this scolding propensity; but everybody is quite aware of the fact that Janet is harmless, and that sooner than hurt a fly she would nurse it tenderly back to life.
               "What could come of it?" I asked.
               "What could come of it! She asks me what could come of it,—she really does! Why, mischief, Miss Hope; yes" (with stern emphasis), "mischief! God only grant you'll not rue the day you went, drenched and crying, into that shallette!"
               I laughed louder than ever at that. Why, what a simple thing my poor nursey is! And there, journal dear, have not I had a deal to relate to your sympathetic self, and will not you tell me just what you think about it all?
               I know you must deem me a very silly girl, and a very idle one, too; but, dear, dear! is it my fault? Now, you know it isn't, you old precious; so don't frown and turn your face from me; I'm really going to turn over a fresh, fair leaf, and you must note how golden-green will be the tracery that dots its summer tint, how rich the scarlet of its autumn bloom, and how solemnly beautiful the drift that carries it to its winter home.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "I held him in respect.
                        I comprehended what he was in heart
                        And sacrificial greatness. Ay, but he
                        Supposed me a thing too small to deign to know.
                        He blew me plainly from the crucible
                        As some intruding, interrupting fly
                        Not worth the pains of his analysis,
                        Absorbed on nobler subjects."
                     
                  
               
               PAPA had not a word for me. We fell into the usual routine, and I don't think he remembered that I had even been absent from the abbey.
               For a week or two the pain in my hand caused great anxiety to Janet; daily she bathed it in a healing wash, bandaged it in soft linen, and was tender with me, and very, very kind.
               Mr. Walter Brent rode over frequently to ask if the wounded member were growing better. He seems to care wonderfully for my hand. Well, it is a little hand, and white and plump, I believe, too.
               I quite like this young man. Who wouldn't like anybody that was so polite and courteous, I wonder? He has a way, though, of making me feel hot and uncomfortable, because he will look down into my eyes so keenly, and will make me pretty speeches; and, journal darling, I'm not accustomed to hearing pretty speeches, and don't know what to say to make him stop being such a tease; but I do know that to the tips of my ears the warm color flies when he grows tantalizing, and that I begin to look then about as interesting as a boiled lobster. Dear, dear! what shall I do?
               The elder brother is different, very different. He rarely sees me during his visits to papa. Alas, alas! their friendship has progressed wonderfully, and these visits are now so frequent that my father has never a word for his poor little girl! Sometimes I am in the garden, or lingering by the broken fountain in the court, when Mr. Brent rides up, booted and spurred, to the abbey gates; but I hide amid the trees, or under the tangled arches; so never a glimpse does he catch of me. Then I prowl about, and am lonely and miserable till he goes, which, latterly, is not until the lapse of an hour or so. Why will men be so hateful?
               The transient fit of pleasantness in which I surprised him that day at the chalet is probably one of rare occurrence; but I dare say years ago he wore youth and gladness in his heart. How bright he must have found the world then! The cruel blow struck hard, no doubt, no doubt. And he loves her yet—yet. She is a large, fair, statuesque woman; yes, I know; he says he admires that style of woman. Little and red-haired, he called me; but I dare say he has scarcely looked at me, so don't dream my hair is brown, and that I'm only a trifle, barely a trifle, below the medium size; but I don't want him to look at me.
               Humph! I wish he'd marry Lady Ada,—yes, I do; it's so dull here; and then maybe they'd give dinners, and balls, and we'd have lots of fun. Indeed, I do wish he'd marry her.
               
               It is the twilight of a warm, dull Sabbath-day. I can barely see to write; but, nevertheless, shall try and manage to struggle through a narration of something that has occurred to make me most conveniently and comfortably miserable.
               I walked home from church this morning, with Janet tramping on behind me. We had taken a circuitous route through a belt of leafy woodland, and I strolled moodily on, never raising my eyes, until, suddenly as if he had sprung from the ground, like those mailed warriors in the time of Cadmus, appeared Mr. Brent in the path beside me. He looked very strong, very warm, and very ugly, as he gazed nonchalantly ahead at nothing. After our curt, hasty "Good-day," nothing further was said. The silence began to grow extremely awkward, when, as a desperate expedient, I blurted out, "Did you like the sermon, sir?"
               Yes, he rather liked it,—that is, not to any great extent. Was I pleased with it, he inquired.
               "Oh, yes," returned I, warmly; "oh, yes, the parable of the Prodigal Son is, to my mind, the most beautiful in the whole Bible. I'm glad the minister selected that as a text,—it touches me very deeply."
               "I'm afraid the unfortunate youth would have fared but poorly at my hands," he remarked, looking over my head, and away at the golden mists above the hill-tops.
               "Why, sir?" (in some surprise.) "I think the conduct of any barbarian would be similar under similar circumstances; why, sir?"
               He smiled after his grave manner.
               "Because, Miss Vairin, I am singularly constituted in certain respects. It is that I am exacting in nature, probably; for if one upon whom my affection centres should exhibit traits of character unworthy a noble and honorable nature, he forfeits with my respect also every spark of affection; and this, once dead, can never kindle into existence again; so judge whether the Prodigal Son might have won back my regard. Do not look so shocked! That old fashion of things should not be reversed; I would order the 'fatted calf' to be slaughtered, 
                     aud
                     and
                   the feast prepared; the youth should be fed and clothed sumptuously. But I am inclined to think he could never overstep the barriers his evil-doing had raised in my heart. With due regard for the patriarch of old, I think the disgrace of numbering so unworthy a member within the family circle would preclude all question of total forgiveness."
               "Are you, then, so perfect in character," I asked him, "that you cannot tolerate the existence of error in others?"
               
               He detected the lurking sarcasm upon my lip, for, coloring, he impatiently replied, "No, no, my own faulty nature leads me to appreciate and seek after the true and beautiful alone. I value mankind solely for the good that is in them; bereft of that, what is intellect, what is beauty?"
               "If, abandoning evil, one of poor humanity's faulty children comes to you clothed in the mantle of virtue, tearful, repentant,—what then?" I asked.
               "I would do my duty," he replied; "the erring should be welcomed, forgiven, aided; but trust once abused could not be restored; he who forfeits my respect forfeits also my regard, for within my breast is erected a shrine to the pure and true alone."
               "Then man is less merciful than God. He pardons crime of greatest magnitude, even allows the sinner to rest a weary head upon his divine bosom; and are we erring mortals to turn from the presence of evil when the Creator in his glory and majesty finds it not humiliation to bind up wounds with his chaste hands?"
               "I have said," he repeated, "that I would do all in human power to alleviate distress or suffering. You misunderstand me, though; knowing, as yet, nothing of the falsity and hypocrisy of that world upon which you cast the glamour of your own sunny youth, thinking it not a light reflected. Oh, child, I have had my trust in others shaken and abused,—and am weary of the world, weary, weary!"
               "Yes," I replied, bitterly, "you would alleviate suffering, you would bind up wounds and scars, but what of that heart which, having sinned, repents, and would implore your trust as of yore,—would supplicate your pardon and a renewal of affection? You would make answer,—'I forgive, but I cannot forget; you may dwell in my sight, but every moment of your existence I am reminded of that sinful past; there is a chasm between us which may never be bridged.' I do not believe in those words,—'I forgive, but can never forget.' Why, the very act of forgiving implies a total canceling of error, a banishment of it from memory, and a renewed trust and faith vouchsafed the delinquent."
               "Miss Vairin, it is difficult to repose confidence when once it has been betrayed; and without either that or respect, it would be a miracle indeed to kindle into being the embers of affection. I would not myself expect leniency from others were I to merit their contumely."
               For reply, these words of Scripture fell almost unconsciously from my lips,—"'Faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity.' Oh, sir, charity is a godlike attribute!"
               "It is, indeed; I think, though, this text but an exponent of my opinion; when our faith and hope in others fail, we then resort to charity. We do not question or repudiate our duty; we do it blindly, more rigidly, perhaps, than if exacted by reason of love and esteem."
               "How different are my ideas!" I cried. "Without hesitancy I accept the doctrine that to be human is to stand exposed to temptation, to be capable of committing fault, even to perpetrate crime. Upon finding a friend, I should say to myself,—he is human, therefore erring; prepare yourself to discover weakness, selfishness, vanity, anger, and hatred. And again would I say to myself,—God has endowed him with a mind, a soul; there are attributes of divine origin existing in these; you may then discover strength, love, humility, faith, hope, even charity. Perhaps the good may preponderate over the evil; perhaps not. In the human body there is perpetual warfare between two natures; and it is not always the divine that rises victor. I would take my friend as he is; love him in spite of faults, for who of us are without them? bear with him, forgive and forgive again. Oh, how beautiful the trust whose patience is untiring; whose tenderness blots away error; whose affection outlives even the qualities that called it into existence! And this alone is true friendship."
               "You admit," he replied, "the frailty of human nature; and yet in one respect your very argument refutes your belief in its weakness."
               "How so?" I questioned.
               "Where will you find this incomparable being whose nature must indeed be built up of rocky fortitude, self-sacrifice, tenderness, patience, and all the virtues in the calendar, to permit him to cling to a sinful mortal when all else have deserted and derided? Do you not see that a man to do this must possess qualities of superhuman grandeur and benignity? His character must of necessity be without flaw; he himself must be valiant and true as knight of old. Where, if humanity is so frail, will you find a being thus perfect and consistent? Such friendship is a mere will-o'-the-wisp."
               I threw out my hand in a gesture of impatience. "Is this your experience?" I asked of him.
               "No," said he, "it is not; but justice compels me to acknowledge that I have never had opportunity of testing this Damon and Pythian sort of friendship. Looking back upon life, I can safely say its battles have been fought in solitude; there was no outward charge or assault; neither was there visible triumph. What there has been of warfare was waged in my own bosom; consequently, I became independent of friendship. From my soul I can affirm that few men have needed to stand in my presence, saying, 'Mr. Brent, your pardon.' Neither have I done that which would warrant my suing forgiveness from mortal. Not vaingloriously do I utter this, understand; my life has been always sheltered; it has stood aloof from mankind; the burden of my aspirations and hopes being borne without a whisper of their existence to human ear."
               He spoke gravely, nay, reverently, of these things, as if moved by some overmastering memory.
               "And would you bear no tenderness for those not so favored? Would you in your shelter from storm and blast witness the struggles of those in the noontide heat, or the winter gale, without sympathy for their temptations, without charity for their failures? I would pity this very weakness of the nature unable to resist sin; would bear with and forgive it; I would cherish my friend through good and through evil repute; if all the world turned against him, I would remain steadfast!"
               "These are but crude notions of a romantic girl. If put to the test, young lady, your woman's nature would shrink from contact with one branded by the ignominy of crime. You might pity, but never cling to one who of his own fault incurs the world's reproach and contumely."
               How little he knew me! How weak and childish he deemed me! But I was a true woman: speaking hurriedly, and in excited tone, my voice must have caught the eagerness of heart and soul, for my companion, stooping somewhat, was listening to me with strange interest.
               "Suppose one very dear to you, Mr. Brent, say your brother, whom now you recognize as capable of no dishonorable thought or action; suppose by some chance he were led away by wild companionship, tempted into evil-doing, and yielded, as many a good man has done before. Even the brightest angel of them all—Lucifer, son of the morning—fell, to rise never again. Ah, you love him,—Walter; I see it! Surely, if all the world forsook, you would cherish him still; you would be merciful, and not cast him from you."
               He turned from me at this, looking away beyond the belt of trees that stretched to the edge of the adjacent moorlands; then, when his eyes again sought my face, there was no gleam of tenderness or softness in their depths; but rather, scintillating with pride and scorn, they seemed to disdain even thought of wrong shadowing one of his kindred. Uncovering his head, he threw back a cluster of hair from the temples, exclaiming,—
               "No, no! The name Brent is an honest one; from father to son it has been transmitted without taint. I hold it the duty of every man to so relinquish his name to posterity untarnished; it should prove more his aim than the bequeathing a fortune. Dishonor upon a household will creep down from generation to generation, and back through the march of years will be hurled curses upon him whose hand destroyed the birthright. I hold it a man's fealty to preserve this honor as a jewel whose price is far above rubies. No, dear as my brother is now, should he ever forget allegiance to God, country, and home by degrading his nature beneath its manhood, he would become an alien to my heart. Certainly would I help him to rise again,—would aid, counsel, benefit; but, it could never be the same Walter whom I had loved from boyhood. I should grieve over my idol; but, once broken, the clay could not be united symmetrically as before."
               The speaker's countenance wore a firm, a stolid expression. I think this man would have wielded an iron rule in the days of the old Roman prætors, and in the Forum surely justice would have reigned unrivaled. I think he would make an excellent Brutus, condemning to death his offspring,—the anguish of the father being wholly absorbed in the sterner duties of the judge.
               I see him before me now,—harsh lines on brow and cheek, fire in his eyes, a compression of the lips, voice stern and unwavering; but I shut out the vision with my hands, for the face that once looked so tenderly, so compassionately, upon me, seemed then distorted, severe, ugly.
               I shut it out, because now I cannot bear to meet those eyes in anger; no, no! Once having known them in their beautiful compassion, I would see them beam thus always. He is a man for whom some woman might die of love, and yet I've angered and grieved him terribly. But—there, journal darling, I'm rambling again. To go back to the quarrel, and say that, in reply to the above, I attempted nothing, but that, after a painful hiatus, some demon seemed goading me on into a frenzy; for, looking up, I said, scornfully, "If you remember a story of the past, I do not think you would so boast of your family honor; I do not think you would find it a deed worthy of imitation to gain a lady's hand by slandering her betrothed lover. I do not think you would recommend the counterfeiting another's handwriting a triumph to be transmitted to posterity, emblazoned upon the family escutcheon."
               I was fairly frightened when I had done, for a vivid gleam flashed into his eye. He threw upon me one fierce gaze; then, seizing my arm with a vise-like grasp, said, hoarsely,—
               "What business have you, to pry into the history of my family? What business have you, I ask? Girl, you have angered me terribly; do not you know that you have? Women are alike the world over,—traitorous, treacherous. I thought you, at least, incapable of hypocrisy. That was a mean trick; it should be too mean to excite my anger; but I am sorry to lose faith in you, little girl, very sorry. Why have you made me do this?"
               Nothing could I answer, but hated myself for the sudden look I gave into his eyes, seeing there such a world of sorrow, reproach, and misery, that it has haunted me throughout the day.
               If Janet had appeared in sight, I should have run toward her for protection from the great ogre who was making me dreadfully afraid, and who, perhaps, in his mind was cogitating some diabolical plan for my punishment. For a long time he did not open his lips; but finally he said, quietly, and very gravely,—
               "Probably ten years ago, Miss Vairin, an uncle of mine—Walter Brent—wrote me a letter from some city away off in the States. It was to give me a strange piece of intelligence. He wrote that upon October 4, 18—an unknown messenger had hastily summoned him from his room to attend the last moments of an old friend. Upon parting the curtains, and looking at the face on the pillow, he failed to recognize it; but when the dying man whispered his name, and recalled certain facts to his recollection, he remembered him instantly. Then there was poured into his ear a strange confession.
               "To that pale face, to those feeble hands, and that emaciated body sinking away into nothingness, Walter Brent owed the misery of his life. It was this man who, for revenge upon an innocent woman whose only crime lay in the fact of her having had no love to bestow upon himself,—it was this man who, forging a letter from her betrothed, had caused her to believe him faithless.
               "As it unfortunately appears, you are acquainted with the story.
               "Walter Brent forgave the dying wretch, and he passed to his Maker for judgment.
               "Now you will understand my father, a noble, injured man; you will understand my pride in glancing back over the long line of names and finding it marred by no dark stain or loss of honor.
               "Are you not ashamed, Fay, to have lifted the curtain of that past; to have stolen the echoes that belonged not to you?"
               "No, sir," answered I, stiffly; "no, I'm not ashamed."
               "Who repeated the story to you?"
               "You'll not be told, sir."
               "I am quite aware that Mrs. Dashwood was your informant. But let it pass. I hope the dead sleep well; if not, why the need for dying?"
               
               I felt sorry for him then; but how I longed for the gates of home, to get safely away, and never, never see or hear of him again!
               I knew that he would want to be quietly rid of me, and I wondered that he persisted in walking along, and talking upon the mooted subject until, sick of it, I was fairly vexed with myself and utterly reckless as to what I said. He was muttering something about the world's tribunal of justice, and honest men appearing before it to be judged, each according to his desert.
               It was not without some degree of irritation that I repeated, "The world's tribunal of justice! 'Tis but a libel on the term, sir. I've no patience with its justice."
               "Term it as you will," returned he, "but a man of principle need never cringe before the arraigning bar. If it repudiate, his own heart will exonerate him before God. And if he stand pure before his Maker, why chafe at the opinion of mankind?"
               "I presume, Mr. Brent, you are one of these men of principle. They pride themselves upon standing proof against all surging of the tide that floats weaker vessels away. But you're too hard, too exacting! You would fulfill to the letter the moral of that stern old Jewish law." My words were wild and inconsiderate, but not a jot cared I; indeed, the composure of that man of granite almost exasperated me. "But be not too sure, sir; I've known another of as steadfast a nature as your own; his honor and principle were his pride. For them would he have sacrificed life, desolated his heart of every human emotion, to lay upon these altars a worthy tribute. These idols were at last shivered into atoms. Do not mistake my words. I honor this fealty to right and duty; 'tis a kingly nature that is bound by such allegiance. But I contend against the want of charity for the failure of those who fall through temptation; you, who are so strong, will not recognize another's weakness, will not pity, bear with, and forgive it!"
               "A pretty opinion you entertain of me, Miss Vairin," he remarked, indifferently; but I made no answer, for my indignation had somewhat spent its force, and ere long I grew calm and composed. We strode on in silence, and then presently I said,—
               "You wouldn't prove a good friend to possess, sir! If 'twere possible to continue in a permanent state of sanctity,—yes; but while each day discovers some new fault being grafted upon my character, I think you would be found but a sorry Mentor for Telemachus."
               At this, somewhat pleasantly he exclaimed,—
               "Then you confess my surmises totally incorrect. I had formed a trifling opinion of Miss Hope Vairin, judging her to be quite an exemplary young person; but am I in truth to understand her as over-burdened with a load of faults?"
               "Yes," boldly I replied; "instead of advancing in the road to goodness, I lag far behind; so, who would profess friendship for me must be willing to accept errors, faults, and waywardness."
               "And why would not I prove a good friend?" he inquired.
               "Oh, because, when one commits a wrong, it's not hard to acknowledge it to a friend who will bestow counsel and encouragement to do better. Whereas one should fear to confess error to Mr. Brent. He would be severe; would scold, then preach a tiresome sermon, and exasperate, instead of allaying ill feelings; I could never, never ask your pardon, were it necessary to do so."
               We had now arrived at the abbey; lifting the latch, I entered, and then the gate fell to with a clash. Mr. Brent remained in the path outside, silent, but at last asking, "And is this the result of my intercourse with Miss Vairin? Do I rouse ill feelings, exasperate her into dispute, preach tiresome sermons, etc.?"
               "Oh, no, sir. But if there were any wrong I had done, and were obliged to acknowledge my error to you, and you straightway launched into endless tirade concerning right and wrong, then would I grow obstinate and defiant. I never feel so heartless or wicked as when I'm being preached to."
               He extended his hand through the iron bars for a farewell clasp. "I shouldn't have grown so angry, should I? Come, Fay, or Circe, or whatever you are, let us make up; you think I could not prove a friend,—well, try me, try me, little one."
               I drew back laughingly. "No, no, sir; have you forgotten the warning of Cerberus? Ah, you could never be my good friend! I don't like to be scolded; I never did. Good-day, sir." A ripple of merriment broke from my lips as I watched to see what he would do. But, unexpectedly, there came that sudden flash into his eyes,—a gleam to appear and fade swiftly as a star speeding athwart the heavens. With scarcely a word he turned and rapidly descended the path. I stood watching the tall figure striding away. "He is too unrelenting," mused thought; "what an angel must the Lady Ada be to have gained his love!" But a strange unrest filled my mind; continually came sounding these words through memory: "I thought you, at least, incapable of hypocrisy."
               No, we will never become friends, never, never. I know he hates me; I know he thinks me mean, and false, and treacherous,—but why should it trouble me?
               There, I shall leave you, journal dear, for Janet is calling; suppose dinner is served, and waiting. Who cares to eat dinner, I wonder? I'm not hungry, nor sad, nor miserable, yet a stone lies on my heart, and a dull, gnawing pain is creeping there, to waylay me if I pause one moment for reflection. Heigh-ho! What a queer world it is at times! There, again, is the dinner-bell ringing, so, with a skip and a hop, off go I merrily in a trice.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               I AM a plain man, commanded to write a portion of these pages, though how I shall accomplish the task is a problem beyond solution. In proposing to give a brief review of my life, it is not that it is in any wise far removed or dissimilar from other lives by reason either of merit or opprobrium; it is because by this one record some voyager on the waste of world may avoid the shoals and reefs over which my bark almost stranded; or, better still, may be enabled to weigh anchor, bearing down for the fair Western isles that, like stars in a sky, gem the waters of life around us. Yes, it is for this reason I propose to give a review of my life,—unworthy though it be in the eyes of the Maker—inglorious in the sight of earth's poor humanity.
               I think I am a man grown old before my day,—lines upon my forehead, eyes faded somewhat, heart—perhaps none at all,—perhaps one hardened and rough from long usage; old before my day, through toil, or worry, or close study, or—what you will; it matters little, truly.
               Time, a dull twilight in the end of June; overhead, a gray English sky. Place, a turn of the abbey garden which brings one directly to its gates; elms rising tall to the sky; rooks cawing ceaselessly in them; Scotch firs innumerable, marshaling themselves to the front; and darker, greener still, holly peering through the fading light.
               In my exit from Mr. Vairin's library I had reached the gates, when a wistful voice arrested my farther progress.
               "Mr. Brent!"
               A figure was leaning beside one of the posts. I shrank from meeting it just then, its eyes were so wont to search my face for aught that boded ill or good upon one subject, and something in my thoughts warned me away from their gaze that evening.
               "I was waiting for you," it said, at last, breathlessly, but fearlessly.
               "Well?"
               "I—I wanted to tell you that—that I didn't mean to be rude that Sunday; I'm not deceitful or treacherous as you—you believe me to be. I don't want anybody to think so ill of me, least of all my papa's friend."
               "Papa's friend is an ogre, you must remember, Miss Vairin; but at any rate, he'll not eat you up! Come, come, we'll make a bargain to forget all about that Sunday, will we not?"
               Looking up, she returned, eagerly, "Oh, yes, indeed, we will! I thought you were terribly angry, sir, because you haven't been to see papa in a long time, and there's something I want to ask you."
               "Something to ask me?"
               "Yes, sir; a favor."
               "A great favor?"
               
               "A great favor, sir."
               "Well?"
               "Will you let me teach the children, Mr. Brent? The Sabbath-school children, I mean."
               "You?"
               "And why not me, sir? I'm not a child that I shouldn't be trusted; besides, I haven't one solitary duty to employ my time; I'm lazy, and idle, and it's leading me into all sorts of mischief! I should think you would be one to condemn this sort of life, sir. Ah, do let me teach, please!" 
               "But it is the poor of the village whose children form classes, you silly Fay!"
               "I like poor people," returned she, defiantly.
               "What would you do if one of your scholars should present himself before you with a dirty face, though?"
               "I'd wash it, sir," she answered, laughing.
               "You would, would you? H-h-m! Well, I'll see; when you come to church next Sunday we may find something for these idle hands to do."
               "I'm much obliged. Good-night, sir."
               Dropping me a curtsy of saucy waywardness, she ran away up to the porch, and I was thus unceremoniously left to my own thoughts.
               That young creature was so winsome; her blithe ways amused and delighted me, and I watched her unwittingly as one gladdening over the sparkle of a lovely child; an indescribable charm lurked in her manner—a something piquant, beautiful, and captivating—that rendered her dissimilar from all other women I had ever known. It refreshed me—a dull, plodding man—to look upon the delicate, oval face, so girlishly sweet; and a more pure, more trustworthy one have I yet to behold. In the lustre of the dark-gray eyes there dwelt a truthful look which lent to the countenance an expression of innocence and childishness; over the forehead, white and shining as that of Clytie, fell masses of wavy-brown hair with a gleam of gold just lightening its shadows, and making of the head a glitter of sunbeams and glory. In her manner there was nothing of shyness; only a trace of girlish timidity lingered about it, enhancing its charm as with the perfume of a wild rose. She seemed, too, so wholly unconscious of her beauty, with the naïveté of a child wondering that others should be drawn towards her, either to admire or to love. By some mischance that little Fay had probably strayed from her woodland dells, and thus had come to live among the haunts of men, retaining all the vivacity, all the freshness, of that sylvan life.
               She was too sincere, too much herself, to have buffeted with the world; for every word and smile revealed the existence of a pure, untutored nature; from her eyes shone the current of every thought. Life itself seemed new and marvelous to her; a bird, a flower, or a sunset gladdened that simple heart; day after day she noted them as if they were things hitherto unseen, and the joy that trembled in her face was so earnest in its expression of delight, one involuntarily sighed to think that faith so true, so childlike, should one day be forced from its niche.
               She was wont to address me in curt, unhesitating tone, much as if I were somewhat akin to her grandfather, or as if I were some elderly, old-fashioned friend of the family, rather given to the imparting of counsel and reproof than otherwise. At times I looked down upon the girl with an odd mixture of anger and admiration striving for utterance; in my mind wondering that she should treat me as if I were upon the summit of that olden hill; wondering that she should speak to me in her coolly-unembarrassed manner, totally ignoring the fact that I was a man of but three-and-thirty years, a young man yet, and one who was not presumed to have had his day of romance. Bah! That time of folly in my life is happily dead and gone! See to it, Geoffrey Brent, see to it that the grave buries well its dead!
               I lingered by the gates that June twilight, after the Fay's brusque "good-night, sir," to think over the conversation I had just had with Mr. Vairin. He was a man with whom one might have been proud to claim friendship; it gratified me that he accepted mine; this was done more probably, I think, for the memory of his boyhood, when he knew my father, and they sported together upon the college green, or were rivals in contesting for the honors to be earned in the college campus.
               At a glance I seemed to understand somewhat of that proud, reserved nature. At a glance I comprehended that he had no show of affection for his daughter, although parental love must surely have burned warmly beneath the frosty surface of his heart.
               It was sad, it was pitiable, to see that small figure hovering about him, as a young and timid dove longing to touch the clouds, yet which dares not soar above the roof-tops for fear of growing wearied before the goal is won. It was pitiable, too, to see the eyes follow him wistfully about, and the lips tremulous to frame words that, alas! never came. Poor little Fay! I had made her a rash promise; it was this,—to urge upon her father the necessity of consulting a physician because of his precarious state of health; that promise was destined to become a serious matter of regret with me, however, and before the lapse of many days I found myself placed in a most delicate and embarrassing position.
               Long ere I had intended to broach the subject, an opportunity was afforded me by the gentleman himself. That June evening, upon gaining admittance to Mr. Vairin's library, I had found him sitting in dejected attitude beside the window, his face colorless, his breathing heavy, and apparently a spasm of pain contracting his features. For some minutes he was unable to articulate distinctly; then I heard enough to confirm my fears as to the utter impracticability of his restoration to health.
               A celebrated physician in London had instituted an examination of his heart; he could give him no hope, he said; he might live years, he might not live a month; very probably death would overtake him without a moment's warning; he might be stricken down in sleep, or he might fall dead during the morning meal, where his young daughter, coming fresh from her slumbers, should be looking forward to a day golden-glad and radiant. It was for her the father confessed himself cowardly; he could not face that dreadful probability, knowing there were none upon the broad earth with whom she might seek refuge.
               Refuge? That was Mr. Vairin's word. He seemed to fear some dark future for that poor child; he seemed to be watching something ahead, from which she must be guarded. I read the father's heart upon that June evening. He was a man of mystery; but I knew a quick, terrible shock had frozen him into gelid marble. It was not the gradual wear of years that had banded him thus in rigid fetters; no, no! Some blow had darkened the chambers of affection, leaving them desolate for evermore. He was a man wearied of living, wearied of bearing the burden, and but for his child might have wooed death to him, and been glad to push out from shore.
               Poor little thing! And she dreamed not of the uncertain tenure by which his life was held. I was so sorry for her, the gay little girl.
               When, upon the termination of that interview, I turned from the library, Mr. Vairin was much composed in mind, he affirmed; but I walked away with a feeling of unrest and wonderment vexing my brain at the result of this visit.
               It happened in this wise:—
               Moved by a strong feeling of friendship for the father, I had offered to pledge myself as one who would become a faithful guardian to the daughter in the event of any calamity befalling him. We turned over the matter in all its sad details, not without a great pity overwhelming me for the desolate old man bound by but one tie to the world; and for that loving child, who, in all the unconsciousness of youth, was sporting life's hours away, and who would have been weeping her heart out had she known the subject of conversation. It was agreed that a lawyer forthwith be summoned, and that the matter be legally authorized in all its hard, cold suppositions. What would the little one have thought had she dreamed we were disposing of her in that fashion! How she would have struggled against Fate!—the possibility of Lord Ogre asserting his right as her guardian when the proper time should arrive; Lord Ogre bearing her off to his dull castle and taking pleasure (?) in tormenting her dear little soul!
               Ah, my poor Fay! had you been wise, had you but barely have trusted the ogre, he would have saved you a world of heartache; no tears should have flowed from your eyes; no thorns should have pierced your feet, doomed to walk bared over a waste of ground that was plowed deeply in sorrow.
               No, no, child, your sad day had not yet dawned; you wept some tears, but more bitter ones were to course your cheeks; little you knew it. It was darkness then for me; a darkness that had enwrapped me in folds long years before, but the first star in my night was rising; its golden glitter just touched the horizon, but as in a mist I saw it, therefore rejoiced.
               I lingered by the abbey gates to ponder over the new position in which I found myself; the light faded soon, and night was advancing rapidly.
               Presently footsteps rustled down the path, and a figure came hurrying out. Strange that, upon seeing me, it turned, creeping stealthily back, as if detected in a crime. But already had I overstayed my time, so, pausing not to venture inquiry into the matter, I loosed my horse, mounted, and rode to the rectory to deliver a message there, then made for home. Suddenly, though, I drew rein.
               "Hold up, mester! hold up, sur! Don't run folk doun!" cried a gruff voice, and simultaneously a man and woman darted almost from under Raven's feet, plunging into a thicket by the wayside.
               "Is that you, Martin?" called I, riding close to the shrubbery, and endeavoring to peer in. No answer, but a faint rustling of ferns. "Martin Cross, are you there?" Again no reply. Strange! surely I could not have been mistaken.
               However, I rode on, and finally, when emerging from Wildmoor park into the stable-yard, found no groom to receive my horse. Martin Cross was nowhere visible.
               Then I concluded it was he who had called out in the road; but why that stealthy plunging into the thicket, and that mysterious silence afterward?
               Hitherto the man had kept aloof from company, therefore I wondered he should be trysting with a lass. Not long did I brood over the matter, but, with a resolve to deliver him a severe reprimand, joined the family gathered at dinner.
               The following morning Martin received but a grave word or two; upon looking at the man's visage, and reading there a story of some dark trouble that had come upon him, I had not the heart to be severe. He held his head low, with a dogged air of resignation on his features, and spoke in a tone in which stubborness and misery contended for the mastery. "The fellow 's best let alone," thought I; "even the humblest has his burden."
               The day dragged on, noon came, and passed.
               There was a sudden stir in the avenue, then upon the balcony, and lastly in the hall; female voices were chattering gleefully; I recognized the tones of my sisters, together with that of a lady visitor who was no stranger to our household. Soon the door opened, admitting Walter.
               "Come," exclaimed he, "come, old fellow, here are Lady Ada and Miss Vairin! Lady Ada stopped at the abbey to pick up Miss Hope on the way, and therefore, Geoffrey, old boy, come immediately out of your den! We're in for a sail, and want you to tack, and steer, and do all that sort of thing."
               Glancing at the window, I said, "The sun is very high yet; it is too warm now for the ladies."
               "Oh, but first Luce and Nell will have to rig up a little, you know; of course that 'll take 'em at least an hour; it 'll be five o'clock then—say half-after when we get to the Aphrodite, and we can stay out till the stars come. Why, old fellow, we're in luck; a sail by twilight for you romantic folks is just the thing!"
               Walter's computation of time proved totally incorrect Lucy and Nell joined the party in the drawing-room, gloved and bonneted, long before the clock struck five. Miss Vairin wore on her head a jaunty silk hat, with a smart feather curling above it; it rested daintily upon the curls, and set off coquettishly her cheeks, whose blushes were deepening beneath the battery of Walter's glances.
               That gay, light-hearted brother of mine, who, boy-like, had already passed unscathed through innumerable college flirtations, prided himself upon playing gallant to all the "ladyes faire." He was to return to the university in another month, so in the interim I thought the young people might as well laugh and chat, without the necessity of stern propriety obtruding itself momentarily. But how Fate blinds one! If I had but used caution and forethought then, what a deal of sorrow might have been spared us!
               In later days Walter's sparkling, boyish face was destined to look often at me through the memory of that evening; but it was sparkling, boyish no longer. No, no, the boy was dead then; in his place, the man.
               "I've insisted on bringing Miss Vairin's guitar," smiled Lady Ada; "so, gentlefolks all, we shall be regaled by the sound of music on the water."
               We started for the beach; strolling down the avenue, soon came to a private gate that opened from the park; then a scramble down the rocks. In obedience to Walter's directions, the Aphrodite awaited us, rocking upon the water.
               It was a scene for an artist.
               The heath-covered rocks were royally gleaming beneath that glitter of sunshine. Waves lapped the shore where sands were kissing with a golden spray the blue of the sea; cliffs were making shadowy nooks upon the beach, and the twitter of birds building in the rocks came idling forth upon the hazy atmosphere; afar off rose the towers surrounding the abbey,—its gray mass of turrets dimly outlined against the sky, completing that scene of glory which was no new vision to my sight.
               We sailed away; it was quite a commodious yacht, and might have entertained a much larger party than the one it held upon that particular evening; but I doubt if those vacant places needed to be filled; assuredly, no voice was raised in regret for any that were absent.
               Leaning back, I lazily performed my work ever and anon, while the boat made her way through the sunlight, with the water lapping its sides, a swirl of foam at the prow, a brisk wind filling the sails, and the pennon over-head fluttering gayly.
               Miss Vairin seemed unusually quiet, even depressed in spirit, I might add. "Will you sing for us, Hope?" my sister Lucy inquired, finally. How early in an acquaintance women take to dropping the formal "miss"! But "Hope"—a smooth, dainty morsel to roll upon the tongue,—"Hope," it seemed a true and honest name enough, too, did not demur in the least to being thus called. At first the fingers that swept the strings trembled perceptibly, and you could have sworn they were about to sob forth some tale of desolation. An odd enough picture it seemed,—the girl playing as unconsciously upon her elfin guitar as if she were in her own wild dells; then in a low voice she sang. I have heard many a richer, clearer, sweeter voice, but none that so tantalized me with an expression of half-uttered woe and misery. I watched it closely,—that figure fair from the land of Faery; you should have seen how boldly the sun lit up the gold-brown hair; throwing, too, shadows upon the white throat, and lifting the curls from the brow tenderly. Was he not afraid to dare so much—that bold sun? But no; a brave, a valiant wooer is he, content with no beggarly stint of kisses, no mute token of love; upon ruby wings he swoops along, and his embraces, though fiercely passionate, are none the less welcome to the waiting fair.
               That summer-day picture hangs fresh to memory now; yet what was there about a commonplace sail in a yacht, with the ladies ducking heads now and then to avoid the beam, Walter and myself tacking, steering, taking reefs, not at all companionable while thus engaged? When years have drifted by, we sometimes unconsciously turn with longing eyes to an unforgotten hour, finding there a past full of grace and fairness; we plod along in life scarcely noticing that a bird sings, or that the sun shines; but when the feet that had tripped blithely in the path beside us are stilled, we awake to the knowledge of better things, and, looking upon the world in its beautiful fairness, weep for the remembrance of that time when she we loved was with us.
               Ah, the sadness in life! nothing is so bright until it fleeteth away; nothing so prized until lost in the change of death. Great God, that it should be thus!
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THE FAY'S SONG.
                           
                              "Come, mariner, down in the deep with me,
                              And hide thee under the wave;
                              For I have a bed of coral for thee,
                              And quiet and sound shall thy slumbers be,
                              In a cell of the mermaid's cave.
                           
                           
                           
                              "And she who is waiting with cheek so pale
                              At the tempest and ocean's roar,
                              And weeps when she hears the menacing gale,
                              Or sighs to behold her mariner's sail
                              Come whitening up the shore,—
                           
                           
                              "She has not long to linger for thee;
                              Her sorrows will soon be o'er;
                              For the cord shall be broken, the prisoner free.
                              Her eye shall close, and her dreams will be
                              So sweet, she will wake no more.
                           
                           
                              "Come, mariner, down in the deep with me,
                              And hide thee under the wave;
                              For I have a bed of coral for thee,
                              And quiet and sound shall thy slumbers be,
                              In a cell of the mermaid's cave."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It should have been a merry roundelay, but there was rather a strange, indescribable mournfulness in the singer's voice that I had never heard before. When finally she laid the instrument aside, I could almost have sworn I saw her brush a tear from the eyes that turned afar off upon the water.
               We sailed on, seeing the sun go down into the sea, and the rocks gleaming golden-green like emerald upon the shore; until in the sky those bands of orange and amethyst and ruby paled into grayness. A ship went gliding past, with sails whitening in the breeze; I wondered from whence it came, and whither it went, and when the unknown sails of my ship would come in from sea. My ship? Why, it was wrecked long ago, wrecked with the full freight of my boyhood's love, boyhood's ambition. With a bitterness of soul I thought over these lines, once hallowed to memory,— 
                     
                        "She was a child, and I was a child,
                        In that castle by the sea."
                     
                  
               
               What set me to dreaming in that summer sunset? Looking at my lady's Greek profile, and at the statuesque poise of her head, I wondered at that olden romance which had cast its glamour about me. Time had been when I fancied myself deeply in love with her beauty; but no spark of the past fire could ever kindle into life again; no, never, never, never; sooner could the sea give back its dead, or the withered stalks blush, golden, into grain, than the pulse of love throb warmly to renewed existence.
               I remember it was when the day lay pale upon the bosom of twilight, when we were facing homeward, and the others, gathered in the stern, were singing ballads, that the little abbey girl came and sat herself down beside me near the prow.
               "Mr. Brent," she said.
               "Well, Miss Vairin?"
               "Will you tell me why these people look at me as if they were pitying me?"
               The voice was low, but cold and querulously sharp, changed wonderfully.
               "Are they pitying you?"
               "I don't know; you can tell me, sir, because your eyes seem latterly to be saying, too, 'Poor little thing!—poor little thing!' Why does everybody treat me so? Mr. Walter there is the only person who treats me as if I were grown up. I will know!"
               There was a flash of the dark eyes, and Miss Vairin drew herself up into a statue of indignation.
               "Lady Ada would murmur, 'Poor little thing!'" I answered, dreamily, "because she would tell you that life such as you lead in a secluded old abbey is, for a young girl, simply unbearable. She would tell you that you're wasting your youth in the moorlands, when youth is the season to be dancing, feting, and frittering in follies; she would tell you all that, because she is a woman of the world, and incapable of understanding a deeper, nobler aim for life.
               "My sister Lucy and Mrs. Briarly would say, 'Poor little thing! because you are motherless, and they long to fold you under sheltering wings, and make your cup all the sweeter upon the surface, because they fancy in desolation such as that the dregs that cloy beneath are gall and wormwood; they are good women both,—Lucy and Mrs. Briarly,—good, true women."
               "And you, sir,—and you?"
               "And I?"
               "Yes; why, this evening, do you freeze me to the heart by gazing upon me with so deep a pity? Your eyes tell me there is something dreadful to be kept back. What is it? what is it? I will know, sir!"
               She leaned towards me, and in the eagerness of suspense bent so near that I could detect the warm breath fluttering forth in quick vibrations.
               "When I was a child, Mr. Brent, they never had to coax to make me swallow a bitter draught; I had always rather take it at once than dally over the spoon. I've wanted to ask you all this time, for I read your face immediately; once, yesterday, I thought you looked queerly at me. Oh, you cannot deceive me! I know—I know—you have seen papa;——he—" Here she broke down, gave a stifled, piteous moan, and, leaning over the boat's side, her tears dropped slowly into the sea. There was a curl of foam that bore them onward, a splash, splash of water, a burst of chorus from the songsters; the little head bent lower, and I could see nothing but the jaunty hat, with its smart feather nodding in the wind, and a ringlet or two blowing about her shoulders.
               How had it come that I, who for years had forsworn the companionship of women other than my sisters,—how had it happened that that young creature should come to me in her sorrow, that she should be drooping before me, and move me to the soul by the sight of her falling tears, her pretty, miserable face, her curls clustering to her head, her smart hat so woefully out of keeping with the sorrow weighing her down? What business had fate to be toying with a man three-and-thirty years of age, who had had his dream and his romance, and who had buried them in their graves long ago? I only knew that, looking upon the Fay clinging there to the boat's side and sobbing so lowly that no ear save mine heard,—I only knew that I would have been less than man had not some vague, daring vision darted into my mind.
               One star shot into the sky; barely one, but I knew it was a world!
               "My poor child," I whispered, hastily touching her cold hand, "be comforted. I have spoken with your father; he positively refuses to consult a physician, as his own medical adviser has given him all necessary precautions. So long as no excitement, nothing that shall startle or shock him, occurs, his life may glide on for many years yet. Be brave, and set yourself to this duty; set yourself to guard him tenderly, with the assurance that he cherishes you with a far deeper solicitude than you dream of."
               I was totally unprepared for the sudden change that overcame her upon hearing these words; the form remained bowed no longer; raising her head with an air of scornful defiance, the girl exclaimed,—
               "You have already made me miserable enough, sir, but you shall not take all brightness from my life; you know fully as well as I do that my father has no place for me in his affection. Have not I seen this consciousness in your manner towards me all along? Is not that the meaning of these heartlessly sympathetic glances the people continually cast upon me?"
               "Hush, hush; they will hear you."
               "I don't care; they're nothing to me."
               In the dim light her countenance looked pale and forlorn. There were no more tears, no more moanings; the pettishness of manner had all fled.
               "How have I made you miserable?" inquired I.
               "How, sir? You ask me how? Why, you've taken my father from me! Before you came, Mr. Brent, he gave me a portion of his time; now, the afternoons and evenings are spent at chess, or in long, dry discussions over papers and books; he has scarcely a word for me, and you know it! you know it! I came from school a simple child, believing that I could place myself in his heart and force him to love me, and a stranger steps in, usurps my privileges, and knows more of my father's nature than does his own child. Is it just? Is it right? It is pleasant to feel the whole county pitying one, isn't it? But I tell you, sir, they shall not. I will be happy in spite of you!"
               Poor little girl! If she hadn't grown so angry at every word I attempted to utter; if she had but listened to my remonstrances; but a veritable child was I dealing with, who at times hearkened neither to reason nor to wisdom.
               "So I make you miserable, Fay?"
               There was no answer.
               "Shall I come no more to the abbey? Would it please you for me to remain away?"
               
               "You know it would," replied she, bitterly; afterwards adding, in a softer tone, "N-not altogether away, sir; you're papa's friend; come to—to see him some time."
               "No, I shall go there no more; at least, not until you've mended the matter by coming to ask me."
               "That will never be, sir!"
               "Never? Let it be never, then!"
               Saying this, I rose to adjust the canvas, and Walter, suddenly desisting from a loud halloo he was sending over the water, sprang into my vacant place. Going over to the others then, I listened to their converse, joining in occasionally, until, with a vigorous lurch, the Aphrodite swung gracefully before our landing-place.
               The sail was over. Much to my relief, the guests declined Lucy's invitation to dinner. I was downright glad of this, for, being rather fatigued that night, I much preferred turning into bed to the chatter of women voices. After the ladies had entered the brougham, Walter sprang in to accompany them home. From the hall lights I caught a gleam of an angry, beautiful face that, upon meeting my gaze, turned hastily away. Though the time had not quite come when the vision of that angry, beautiful face was to haunt me through nights of care and wakefulness, it yet caused a pang to shoot through my thoughts at the knowledge of all the sorrow, all the misery, the child was storing up for future usage.
               Even then was I hovering upon the threshold of fate, though I knew it not.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               UPON the first Sunday in the month of July (a day or two succeeding) Miss Vairin appeared at afternoon church, where Mrs. Dashwood portioned her a class numbering among its members a little Italian girl in whom, hitherto, I had taken a lively interest. The child showed her gladness when Hope Vairin took up her task as preceptor in the Sabbath-school. Quite a picture it made, too, in that old church: the afternoon light flecking the roof, lighting up pulpit, chancel, and altar-piece; the regiments of little soldiers marshaled solemnly together, listening to the words that fell upon their ears, with a sort of curious incredulity. Fay's golden-brown head gleamed in their midst, a contrast to that restless one of Mrs. Dashwood, or to the prim, strait-laced noddles of the other teachers.
               Two weeks had passed away, when, one evening, while the parish children were dispersing, there came a sound of music from the church; the organ's notes were stealing forth lowly, tenderly, as if touched by some unpracticed yet harmonious hand.
               I went up into the choir.
               But two young creatures were there: one, the Fay, seated before the instrument, playing; the other, that Italian child, standing beside her, apparently breathing in every note with rapture.
               Miss Vairin ceased her melody.
               "Excuse me," I remarked: "I didn't think you were here."
               The girl bestowed upon me an eager, questioning gaze, half starting forward, as if to speak. But, after a commonplace word or two, she turned to descend.
               The child lingered behind; upon halting at the gate and discovering her absence, I went in to seek the loiterer; found her before the altar-rail, with head upraised to the chancel, where shadows were creating a holiness as of heaven, and where the gold and violet of declining day, commingling with the dusk, played in quaint arabesques upon the pavement.
               "Ave Maria, ora pro nobis."
               With hands crossed, face aglow, and look of rapt joy, the child knelt there,—a singular picture for one of that grim old England's established church to contemplate. She drew from her bosom a bit of trinket, kissing it devoutly, while she prayed aloud; the expression "Madonna mother" came repeatedly to my ears, and, standing reverently there in the glow of that beautiful faith and noting the peace that transfigured the little face, for the moment I had almost longed, with a reach of enthusiasm, that I too were a believer in the child's creed, and, kneeling there before the chancel, were praying the protection of sweet "Madonna Mary." In my course through life I have noted that the most fervent, the most devout, of Christians are numbered in the Catholic fold; without ostentation, without parade, do they seem to follow the cross of their Saviour. And with a true manliness in maintaining that feeling of chivalry for woman, do I doff my hat and bow the knee before that grandest star in the galaxy of female loveliness,—Mary, the virgin, yet Mother supreme!
               It has been my lot to find that the good Samaritans, the "kindly neighbors," are not often numbered among our church-going people; far from it. Take Mrs. Dashwood and a score of others, for instance. No parochial matter could be adjusted without her counsel; no beggar or lowly tramp quartered upon the village almshouse without her nod or approval; vulgarly speaking, she had a finger in every clerical pie; was president of more sewing cliques, tract societies, and what not, than any other lady in the county. True, she rarely gossiped of her good deeds; her house was orderly maintained: her husband, sleek and fat, being well fed, her children neat and rosy. There was nothing, absolutely nothing, of the society woman about her. She enacted her Christian regulations, etc., in a gay Italian villa (built purposely for the making of said laws); there were flowers and vines, no mark of sectarian precision and grimness, about the place. Her Bibles and tracts were all gilt-edged, and bound in fanciful cloth. When met, the ladies would set themselves to prescribing rules, abolishing evils, and partaking of dainty luncheons.
               (Query.—Can a party of females possibly become lawgivers without the inevitable Bohea and gossip?) O ye shades of the past! What a parliament, with my ladies in the midst of the ratification treaty, haggling each other to pieces!—"I know better than you, you odious Lady Smart!" "Oh, you do, do you? Very well, very well, madam!" and the door being flung wide, with Thomas in powdered wig announcing, "Your dish of tea and scandal, my ladies." Who knows? When the millennium comes, we men shall hide our shamed heads.
               How much more beautiful that simple creed blossoming in the Fay's bosom! It was an untold prayer when her eye, looking abroad, gladdened over the hills, rejoiced in a bird upon a neighboring twig, found a grace in the scattered moor-flowers. It was a prayer when the drowsy hum of the bees returning home laden with spoil caused that cheek to glow with its thrill of pleasure, or when a star burning white in the sky, and the yellow moon coming up over the sea, spoke to her of that fairer world where stars and moon are set beneath the feet of our pure upon earth.
               I repeat, I have found that the good Samaritans do not often dwell among church-going people. Look at that patrician dame sweeping her silken attire into our fashionable aisles; she stands amid the congregation and responds, "Have mercy upon us, miserable sinners," with head humbly bowed; yet have I noted her toss her skirts aside from the penitent Magdalen pleading alms at the gate, brushing well her fine-ladyism from its possible contact with the sinner. Did not the Saviour raise Magdalen with his godly hands?
               "Have mercy upon us, miserable sinners," answers the clerk, and a response sounds forth from the velvets and laces,—a mighty smoke from the sacrifice ascending up to heaven,—"Have mercy upon us, miserable sinners."
               Ye gods, I trow some of you are yet upon pedestals, named anew—Fashion and Mammon.
               Why is it that women are hard upon one another? They slander, bear malice towards, envy, and defame their own sex alone, while they will go through fire and water for a man, be he ever so wicked. If a woman makes a false step, it is her sisters that crush her under, that hurl her relentlessly into the hideous swirl. Would it not soil their white purity to reach a helping hand to her who cries, "Christians, Christians, I pray your charity"? Out upon such graces! out upon such delicacy! rather would it set a jewel in their crown of womanhood. Where is the man that would slander his fellow-man?—that would not rather cover another's sin, cloak it, muffle it?
               And yet men are hard upon women; very hard, and often cruel. I think it a punishment meted out to that female sisterhood for their abuse of one another, their envy of one another, their treachery to one another. I think it a punishment from God that women should throw themselves upon a man's mercy, stake their life, happiness, upon his love, not counting the fearful risk, and that he should toss them about at will, as a plaything, as a bubble; yet, while the world is the world, thus shall it be.
               Isola came forth. A piteous cough was bringing tears to her eyes, but nevertheless she smiled at the Fay gazing tenderly down upon her. It was only a charity orphan, one not quite leveled to a place in the servants' hall, and it was touching to see the abbey girl gentle and kindly towards her as towards the proudest lady in Britain. The child was no ill-used dependant; her garments were of neat pattern; a doctor prescribed for that hacking cough; she performed no labor; and yet there was a painful wistfulness, an indescribable lack of happiness upon her features, so sad to witness in a youthful face. She had missed something of earth's fairness, for not those of meat and drink were the goods she craved, yet upon such only was she forced to subsist. Poor child! When something in life is awry, how difficult is it to drift along with brow unfurrowed by frowns or lip untouched by bitterness!
               "Are not you returning home, Miss Vairin?" inquired I, seeing the two girls stroll towards the village.
               "No, sir; I'm to accompany Mrs. Dashwood to the manor for a day or two," she replied, with an air of ennui, as if intending rather to say, "I'd prefer staying at home, but you know," etc.
               Keeping beside them, for a time we wandered on in silence. "You are fond of walking, I presume?"
               "Yes, sir." (Very distantly.)
               "Do you not ride occasionally?"
               "I used to ride during my vacation, sir; but the pony papa was to order for me has not come. I dare say he forgot all about it." Saying this, she relapsed into that chilling silence. Safely escorting my charges to the village wherein Mrs. Dashwood was examining some one of her many regulations, I left them, and went on to Wildmoor.
               The next day it happened that unexpected business required my presence in London. Hastily penning Mr. Vairin an apology for my tardiness in holding good that promise made to him, and pleading my coming absence as a reason for future non-appearance at the abbey, I set out immediately for L——, and was borne off to town rapidly and unceremoniously. Seven days had slipped by when I returned, and found there was but one other week in July. Upon the second day of August Walter would reach his majority. It was to be a gala day among the tenantry of both estates, who were making calculations to light bonfires on the hills, have a dinner on the grounds afterwards, and to close the festivities by giving a ball in my new barn; so those final July days were occupied in granting favors, overlooking preparations, issuing orders to the steward, and hearkening to Walter's merry tongue, which rattled on exuberantly at the prospect of soon reaching man's estate. The important era at length arrived; all the respectable squires with their respectable families, for miles around, were invited to partake of the festivities.
               At their best, I think our county dinners are stupid. We hear the same old jokes from the same old heads of families that we heard in our infancy. We see that Lady Smiley is offended because Mrs. Jones, the member's wife, precedes her upon Lord Fitz-Snob's arm. We detect the envy upon the Misses Jones' countenances because they've been just assured that Miss Alicia Smiley's laces are direct from Brussels. For four or five hours we sit in state together, solemnly guarded by a detachment of footmen, to drink the usual quantity of wine, give the usual number of toasts, and then, dull and heavy, rise to rejoin the ladies in the drawing-room. What pleasure in that?
               Then, the feast in the grounds being dispatched with a nicety of precision, loud cheers were heard rising up from the villagers and tenants, clamors for "a speech! a speech!" In a body, the respectable squires shuffled out, and proceeded vociferously to harangue the audience until, from sheer lack of breath and words, they, happily, were forced to conclude. Soon, a hill or two shot up in a blaze from the kindling fagot-piles; a half-dozen or more shots were fired from some ancient guns, whose sorry report was received with enthusiasm by the attending crowd.
               The gentlemen and ladies presently dispersed to their several mansions, and the tenantry, taking possession of the barn, fiddled away untiringly while their lads and lasses danced and flirted. A few remaining guests went out to witness the revel. What a sight it was!—those fresh village beauties coquetting upon the barn-floor, with twinkling feet, and cheeks whose flushes rivaled the tints of Aurora. There was a flash of white dresses, a sporting of ribbons and curls, and smiles and laughter floating about. There was coy Jean, from whom, in the dark outside, Robin slyly stole a kiss; and who thereby got his ears soundly boxed. But think you he recked? Not a whit! For such as that a dozen Robins would bear to be thumped soundly, I warrant; so youth runs.
               We gentlefolks remained without, framing our heads in the windows. While listening to the tweak of the fiddles, and admiring the manner in which Colin spun Phoebe about, I happened to look over to the window next mine. The Fay was there standing, regarding that lively scene with an expression of countenance intense in its appreciation. I went over to her. "Do you like it?" I asked, pointing into the room.
               Turning, she exclaimed, blithely, "It is glorious! I wish I was that girl,—I do wish I was she!"
               "Which one?"
               "That one with those red cheeks and that dark hair."
               "What! and have Robin kiss you in the dark, and meet you at the stile, and plod along, just a simple village belle?"
               "Oh, now you're making fun of me, sir. But isn't she beautiful, and so very, very happy? Why, all the young men are wanting her for a partner! Yes" (with a little sigh), "I do wish I was she."
               "And does that constitute your ideal of happiness, simple child? Would you be pleased with such as that?"
               "I'd like to have a good many asking me," she replied, with a coquettish toss of her head. "Nobody has ever asked me yet. I've never been to a ball in all my life, and I do want to see the gay world, where everything is bright, and there is dancing and—and——"
               "What, Fay?"
               "Happiness, sir."
               I shook my head ominously. "The world is painted very gorgeously, little one; but I doubt if there is lasting happiness to be found within it. There is a bloom on pleasure, as there is on the golden plum, but brushing in contact with it wears away that beautiful glow, and you turn from the revelry in disgust. However, I'll not become a croaker, to spoil your anticipation of future triumphs, when 'all the young men shall be wanting you for a partner.'"
               "I wish, sir, you had another brother who was going to come of age soon."
               "Why not, while wishing, rather have it that the years go backward, and that I were about coming of age?"
               "You, Mr. Brent? I could never imagine you young; were you, ever?"
               "Do I look so very old?"
               "You don't look so old, sir, but it's a way you have of acting old."
               "Ah, I understand. Well, you're about right. It is long since I have felt free of burden; so long, indeed, that I scarcely remember ever to have had my youth."
               "Did they give you a dinner, Mr. Brent?"
               "Give me a dinner?"
               "I mean that—that time when you came of age."
               "No, Miss Vairin," I replied, moodily,—sternly, perhaps; "it was a matter of trifling moment that I came of age at all."
               The words escaped my lips before I was aware of their import. She gave me a startled, half-sorrowing look, then turned to watch the dancers. The lads and lasses were flirting, the fiddles squeaking loudly, when, to my astonishment, the girl came hurriedly up to me, and, drooping her head low, murmured, in a voice of sympathy,—
               "Oh, sir, will you forgive me those hasty, foolish words that I said to you upon the yacht? and will you come and see papa every day, if you want? and will you not mind me at all,—not one bit? Say yes,—quick, sir; ah, do say yes, and that you will come!"
               Then I took her hands in mine, and exclaimed, "Yes, I will come! Is that it?"
               But without a word, in fact, without a look towards me, the child tore her hands away, and darted off towards Nell and Lucy.
               What a strange, original character hers was!—a combination of candor and reserve; unconventional in its way, too, and fresh, with a wild grace, and an independence of thought and manner.
               That night olden memories were stirred that had slept in the ashes of forgetfulness for long years. Fay had spoken true: I was old in action, feeling, and manner; I was old in heart and impulse, perhaps in sympathy.
               What business had a man whose hair occasionally revealed a line of silver (even though he were only three-and-thirty)—what business had he, I say, to be dreaming dreams such as simple Robin might have dreamed when he slyly stole that kiss in the dark? What right had he, whose youth was wrecked long ago in the noontide glare of falsehood,—what right had he to be idling away the night amid village lovers,—those country clods, with feet blithely flying, and pulses throbbing wildly?
               "Bah!" thought I, with a bitter smile,—"bah! am I a fool, that I should fancy a young thing like that could take me as I am,—a man plain, old before his day, his youth wasted fruitlessly,—could take me thus, and make me her romance, her sweet, girlish romance,—a man who is almost double her age?"
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               AUGUST had come,—that season of luxuriance,—with its reddening sunsets and its fields waving in grain. The corn was tall, with the gold of its ears ripened, awaiting the harvest. The meadow-stacks were piled high in hay; the sound of cow-bells came in broken tinkles; the midsummer sun turned the heather into bloom, and, like a royal matron, it was all ablush with purple.
               Wide over the moors hummed the bees in droning cadence, and flew the butterflies in garments of silver, scarlet, and gold. Across the mill-bridge the heathery sea was girdled by a belt of firs, whose treasures in the way of cones and mosses lay scattered in heaps upon the ground. Beyond the firs stretched a small forest of pines, tall, strong, and stalwart through a century's growth.
               Was ever there a country fairer than this of England? Like a true Briton do I exult in my birthright. There were the hills in the background, purpling with mists and golden with sunshine. Salt breaths from the sea came blowing across the heath, chasing the sweets of flowers, stirring life in the trees, and starting the deer through the glades of my park, over fallen timber, and across dell and glen. Midsummer wore royally her crown of blossoms.
               In vain had I been essaying to read upon a certain noonday. The volume lay open before me, but my gaze was rather scanning that out-door scene from the library window. Something singular in its way was that dreamy abstraction of mine, for the volume was Jean Paul's "Titan,"—my novel above all novels,—my friend and Nestor combined. A grim turn, indeed, had thought served me.
               Back to the time I went when we little fellows were wont to play at pitch-and-toss behind a tombstone in the grave-yard during the hour when we should have been sitting reverently in our pews listening to the pastor's long-winded discourse. But, who blames the little boy that nurses a secret liking for pitch-and-toss during that much-to-be-dreaded hour? Not I, for one.
               True, the pastors pointed out the evil tendency of those games, predicting as the finale to a life begun under such auspices an encounter with the tight end of a rope, etc. I believe, though, such fables are gotten up only to beguile little boys into making martyrs of themselves during sermon-season.
               What a time boyhood was, when Dick Turpin, the highwayman, was to us the very prince of heroes, Midshipman Easy and Peter Simple known and tried comrades! We believed in Crusoe and his man Friday then, and would have staked our heads on their verity. Why, even with the advance into a demonstration of hexagons, quadrants, etc., and the trailing out of logarithms into endless serpents of perplexity, we were drawing pictures of the pair upon the fly-leaf of Euclid.
               But we had our favorites, too (over and above that famous Robinson), amid the galaxy of genius shining brightly in England's literature. For there was the tender, the kindly Sir Walter; that most metaphysical of novelists, the fascinating Bulwer; and Thackeray, the sarcastic, yet touchingly pathetic master in fiction; Charles Dickens, supreme in the art. And lastly, when the real tussle with life began, when we left youth and boyhood forever behind us, how we turned to Shakspeare, to pay homage to the lord of them all; to Milton, to Byron, and to those wonder-stars of the German empyrean,—Goethe, Schiller, and the simple, the earnest, the manly Jean Paul Richter!
               Oh, men and women all, that are gray and furrowed, but not with years, what a time was it for us! How we look bitterly back upon eyes—closed now—that wept for our hasty words; upon lips—now cold beneath the sod—that trembled oft at our angry speeches! How we travel back across the gap of sorrow, and say, Such and such a day was a fair one in life! and how we find that memory has set before it a white stone, and that it was a day, perhaps, when we thought the stars at night shone clearer than ever before, because we were looking into our loved one's eyes; the lustre of her face outshone the stars then.
               But all that changed afterwards.
               The moon lightens the valley, but not so glowingly as then; birds that were mated in the trees are scattered to-day; and the music babbling from the mountain-beck falls on heedless ears.
               In those early days, when care and trouble seemed fast treading upon my heels, I was but a cowardly lout, dubbing Duty a tyrant, stern, relentless; or a master, binding his slave in rigid fetters.
               For, my dream of years that should be devoted only to study and ambition; my plans of life looming in the future; what did it with them? Duty mercilessly trod them under foot with an iron heel; held up my existence that was to be,—divested of all gloss and charm.
               A ceaseless routine of struggles with tenantry; a wearisome supervision of tilling, plowing, sowing, reaping; an assisting of nature's lagging footsteps; a bother with wool-shearing, cattle-fattening, grain-ripening; conflict with harvesters and haymakers.
               I struggled, for a time, with selfish repinings; in the end, burst my fetters, and grew into a better man.
               Let me pause here in this retrospect and call up the memory of one whose example afforded me, then, strength of character.
               Above other pictures, I see my sister Lucy, with shining glory upon her brow. It was light from her simple being that first shot a ray into my soul; steady and clear this beam shone out. I saw and acknowledged it; bowed my head, so that a spark resting thereon might humanize my existence. Lucy has lived a joyless life; no, I am quite wrong; home became her world; therefore existence has not been joyless. One sorrow which found her out would have caused a selfish woman to chafe under the Hand that chastened. She bravely met her grief, sorrowed over it, then buried it deep from human gaze.
               Many disappointed cry out from the pain of wounds. Lucy was dumb; her grief found no voice.
               In those far-off times, when my sister was comely, the dream of Love arose in her heart. Does it not in every maiden's? Then, no eye was brighter, no step gayer; days followed thus in happy succession, until, with the dawn of one, there was dealt a blow on her happiness. The vision rose of a lonely ship at sea; a rushing of fierce waves; a struggle with storm and darkness; afterwards, a desolate calm. The waters were speckless,—a rolling mound over grave and wreck. Lucy's young lover bore to his ocean-rest her dream of life; when the tidings came, "Lost at sea," there fell, in mercy to her, a deadly fever; she rose from it, not crushed or broken-hearted, but calm, resigned, yet suffering. For a time, in those days, was I tempted to doubt God's justice; the good and noble seemed oftenest the creatures of his afflictions.
               It was my sister's fortitude which at last raised me from that slough of despond fast becoming the abnormal condition of my mind. After God do I owe it to her—that simple, earnest woman—that I have become, in a measure, a man less callous, less selfish and hardened.
               With my own visions of ambition frustrated, I took comfort in the thought that my brother would wear some one of the world's golden spurs upon his heel. True, when he received my lengthy epistles (poor fellow! I should have thought of myself and the sermons) bearing upon the necessity of his exerting himself wonderfully in the campus, he generally replied in terms such as these,—
               "Bang away, old boy; your fowling-piece is a little rusty, but never fear but what it'll bring down some game;" or, "Don't be cutting up any bobberies, now, Geoffrey; my doctor's shingle 'll be true gold all over."
               When he replied in this manner, my mind would wax a trifle doubtful as to the ultimate and genuine lustre of the aforesaid shingle.
               "But the lad's thoughtless," reflected I; "he'll come round all right and square when once he enters upon the medical course." And with this, the subject invariably was dismissed.
               That particular summer day I was again pondering the matter, when Walter himself entered.
               "Geoffrey," exclaimed he, coming forward, and throwing himself upon a settle, "I want to have a talk with you; it's about a thing, too, I've long thought over. Can you spare any time from those plaguy books?"
               I laid "Titan" down immediately.
               "I was just thinking what a relief your coming proves, Walter, and, as you perceive, am willingly all attention."
               "Zounds!" exclaimed he, "that's a good beginning. Do you know you've made the first sensible speech in your life?"
               After further bantering on Walter's part, I led the way back to the starting-point.
               "Well, the fact is," resumed he—"Now, keep cool! There, you're so grave already, I don't know what I'm talking about. Oh, bother the luck! Well, to commence all over again: the fact is, I'm rather—that is to say, I'm quite undecided, now that my college term has expired, whether to——I say, can't you help a fellow out?"
               There was an awkward pause, broken at last by my saying, hurriedly, "You're undecided whether to take up a medical course or not. Is that it?"
               "Yes."
               We were both silent then for some time.
               "It's a deuced bother to dawdle over musty books all one's life, you know; I'm sick of it."
               He astonished me so by this announcement that at first I had no reply to give, and could barely accept the evidence of my own hearing.
               "You're deficient in perseverance," finally said I; "you've no patience to proceed step by step."
               "That's it exactly. I can't afford to spend so many years in study, when I would rather grasp my future at once."
               "Your future!" I echoed, hardly understanding. He heeded not the interruption, but resumed:
               "You're getting along finely here in the country, old fellow, aren't you? After all, it seems the most satisfactory way of earning one's livelihood."
               "Where does all this lead? What do you mean, Walter?"
               "What do I mean? Just this: why couldn't I throw over this scheme of studying for a profession, and turn county squire too,—hey, old fellow?"
               Many an hour in that past, when deploring my insignificant destiny, I had rejoiced to think Walter's so far different; when my life became of necessity reduced to monotony, comfort had been gained from the thought that my brother's would be vastly dissimilar.
               He should go forth in the world to battle; to carve out a fortune; to shower glory upon the family name; for years this had been the future planned and dreamed over.
               And now that it was within grasp, the lad was loth to clutch it!
               When I say that I felt deeply pained by this lack of energy, of ambition, I describe my sensations but indifferently.
               "You see, Geoffrey, one may almost say the fair lands of Thorndale have lain idle, lo! these many years; and for many more, while I should be delving out my course, they would continue to do so. Now, where's the sense of it? where's the good of wasting precious time? Why mayn't I turn farmer, and sow goodly seed at Thorndale without an M.D. to my cognomen? Come, old boy, be reasonable now, and acknowledge the wisdom of my plan; just think how clever it would sound,—Squire Walter Brent!"
               He made me a mock obeisance. In spite of his lively manner, I could detect that he was earnest, and very serious in his thoughts.
               He paced the room, plunging his hands in his pockets, and whistling in a suppressed tone.
               For my life I could not have disguised from the boy the disappointment I felt in thus seeing my projects overturned by a mere will-o'-the-wisp; this had been a scheme, a favorite crotchet, that would not readily submit to banishment, and it was but fair that time should be granted me for a consideration of the matter in pleasanter aspect.
               "Come now," reiterated Walter, "do be reasonable, and give in. I'm sorry, you know, but really I can't go back to those learned treatises, and dissertations, and heaven knows what all of Dr. Humdrum's new-found theories; really, I can't take up all that sort of bosh!"
               "But, my dear boy, state your objections to the course. I didn't think you would be discouraged before a ready test of it."
               "Nor did I, but——" He hesitated. "No, it's useless to explain; you wouldn't understand. As for objections, they're too numerous to mention; but, among others, I haven't the time to waste upon study and lectures."
               "Waste! Do you term a waste what in the future would be the means of acquiring fame, possibly aggrandizing fortune?"
               "No, not to those who look forward to the possession of fame as the goal of a future; it isn't of mine, at any rate. But come, old fellow, give in at the start; for if once you take a stand, all the horses in the kingdom couldn't draw you against your will."
               "Do you think that? Would that it were so!" I said, with a bitterness of tone.
               What would I not have given to exchange places with my brother! to have his youth and free happiness of soul! to possess his capability of going forth in the world to battle with it single-handed! Circumstances hold men in check, and we are fain to abide by their decisions.
               It appeared to me that on every turn disappointment fronted; I was weary of struggling, though, at last, and would have willingly snapped the threads binding me to destiny. I laugh now at the fool's wisdom urging me to escape my fate; it was inevitable, though at that time I deluded myself into the belief that I should overcome it.
               Again I turned to Walter, but could only reason with and advise him. If he chose to follow his own bent, I should be dumb.
               He did so choose, and I was dumb.
               When at last he hurried from the apartment, it was with the understanding that his future was to be only that of the common run. He would move on through the cycle of years, no wiser when a graybeard than now when a youth.
               It seemed a mere caprice, impossible to understand, for always had he avowed himself eager to take a degree; and it was with thoughts of the deepest discomfiture I reflected upon this singular freak of my gay, giddy brother.
               An evening or two after, I was pacing the balcony, turning over in my mind the feasibility of a project that there had lately sprung. Walter was lolling against the balustrade, idly plucking a rose, and dropping it leaf by leaf.
               "Geoffrey," exclaimed he, impetuously, "why is it Miss Vairin and you are continually sparring?"
               "Are we?"
               "Of course you are."
               "That is a query I'll leave to the young lady to answer. Very probably she entertains no liking for your humble servant, or rather has none to spare from the amount bestowed upon his brother."
               The lad foolishly colored, and, with a pleased "pshaw!" joined me in my walk.
               "No; but seriously now, old fellow, why is it? She and I get along famously. She never takes me up as she does you. In fact, we've jolly times."
               "What do you include under the head of 'jolly'? That is, supposing a young lady can reconcile her dignity to the term."
               "There it is! I knew you'd give some such answer. Look here: do you know that, to use an Americanism, you're rather old-fogyish? or rather, you don't know. You're shut up in this old den year in, year out! How could you?"
               "Old-fogyish?" said I, laughing. "How so? College slang, remember, is not the most comprehensive idiom in the world."
               He chuckled gleefully. "Well, you are an old fogy, out and out. If I say 'old-fashioned,' 'behind the times,' etc., they'll bear the same meaning. Now, with Miss Vairin, for instance, you're too deep for her, you know; not that I mean she isn't smart, but girls like to run on; that is, they don't like to be talking history, and literature, and the ologies, and all that sort of stuff. By Jove, who likes to be solemn as an owl always?"
               "And does Miss Vairin run on? I had imagined her somewhat devoid of the silliness and affectation of the modern young lady."
               Walter's voice grew slightly vexed in the reply:
               "Now, don't mistake me, Geoffrey; I beg of you not to mistake my words. There isn't a particle of silliness or affectation about Miss Vairin. And she's quite different ent from the girls we used to have at our cricket-matches and yacht-races. She doesn't run on, but is sprightly in her manners and talk. But look; as I live, there's the young lady, and bless me if it isn't the governor, too, coming through the avenue yonder! Why, he's never honored us before. What's to pay, I wonder? I say, look here, old fellow, I know you haven't much liking for the girl, but don't, now don't make her visit uncomfortable by your inevitable preaching."
               We had ceased our walk, and were standing beside a pillar, round which was twining a scarlet creeper. You may be sure I was not overpleased, and in fretful humor stripped the vine of many blossoms.
               "Stop, Walter!" I cried; "let me turn lecturer now. I do not wish to hear that term 'governor' applied to Mr. Vairin, or to any other gentleman. Aside from its being disrespectful to the elderly, it is unbecoming the lips of the young."
               "Then you do like her father?" he asked.
               "Yes, I like him." And, lowering my head to inhale the fragrance of a flower, I repeated, "I like her father exceedingly."
               "Well, you're welcome to him; for my part, give me the 'young and fair.' Is that it? So here goes; I'm off to beautify, as the girls say."
               Left alone, I continued my walk, pondering upon the words just spoken. From boyhood I had understood that the face encountering mine in the mirror was not one to please a "ladye faire." That mattered little to me, for I believed a courteous and loyal heart added to native good breeding would win its passport in the world; but my brother's words somewhat contradicted the philosophy of this argument. However, I attributed my ill feelings to that charge of old-fogyism as preferred by Walter. If anything will cause a man to feel out of sorts with himself, I think it is to hear the term "old fogy" leveled at him from lips younger and handsomer than his own; but, as I had imagined Miss Vairin to possess bare liking for me, it did not much matter that then this belief gained conviction.
               Our guests soon reached the gate. Stepping forward to meet them, it rather surprised me to witness the cordiality of the elder's manner, and to find that he gave my hand a hearty grasp, saying, "Why, young man, I've been wondering at your absence, and have therefore come to look you up. Why have we not seen you at the abbey?"
               The young lady had retreated a pace or two, ostensibly to pluck a spray of sweet-brier. While securing the branch, a thorn tore her finger, and immediately a tiny red stream trickled down.
               "The inevitable thorn! I never escape it," she laughed.
               "If you will allow me," said I, advancing to the rescue.
               "No, no, sir; I won't have it unless I get it myself." This in that saucy tone of defiance I recognized so well.
               "Briers will ever wound, then, young lady. Perhaps some day you would be thankful for kindly rescue, but will find that your caprice has driven friends from you."
               "Ah," she cried, "then I had better prepare myself by a course of training for that time when everybody shall have proven so deceitful. By that time I shall have grown quite used to thorns, sha'n't I?"
               Saying this, she turned towards me, waving the branch triumphantly before her eyes.
               I think I can see her now,—a vision of youth and beauty. The red lips were smiling; the gray eyes were ablaze with triumph; the attitude was one of graceful defiance.
               It was a picture of loveliness standing before me upon that brilliant summer day, one in which was much of light, joy, and radiance. But before a year had passed, how changed! The sea of life was at flood-tide then, in a ripple of peaceful dreams. Soon, too soon, storm had swept the horizon, and lashed the shore with wreck and death.
               During this season of solitary moralizing, my visitors were not left standing at the gate; a sense of decorum had prompted me to usher them into the drawing-room.
               After some conversation of commonplace feature, the subject accidentally shifted to one of universal interest.
               "I have been reading," remarked Mr. Vairin to me, "a life of Napoleon that I think would suit your taste. It is a forcibly-written work. The author's name is not prefixed, and I am at a loss to conjecture who he may be."
               "Is it that book of mine which I threatened to destroy, papa?" inquired his daughter.
               "I think it is; yes."
               "What ill will do you bear the volume, Hope?" Lucy asked. "I imagined the age of book-burning over with the destruction of the Alexandrian Library."
               "What a glorious conflagration that must have been!" chimed in Walter. "I should like to have figured as an ancient party myself just then, for the mere fun of adding a volume or two as fagots to the pile."
               "You remember, Miss Lucy, the reply of the caliph Omar when petitioned to spare that collection?" answered the young lady: "'If these writings of the Greeks agree with the Koran, they are useless, and need not be preserved; if they disagree with it, they are pernicious, and ought to be destroyed.' Now, the creed of my Koran is, that Napoleon was not alone the wonder, but the glory of his age; consequently, the writings of this 'Greek' are rank heresy; for he contends that that mightiest of Bona-partes was simply a public highwayman,—an assassin who clutched at the throat of nations and throttled them to the death. To quote the Mussulman's language, 'the work is pernicious, and ought to be destroyed!' Indeed, I'm quite ashamed to own such a libel on my favorite historic character."
               "Your enthusiasm on that score is but romance," rejoined her father. "The Emperor Napoleon was a man whose lawless ambition is beyond equal in the annals of time. To gratify thirst for power, he struggled through the nation's blood; yet still it remained unsatiated. His divorce from Josephine, his treatment of the Duc d'Enghien, and the unscrupulous invasion of Russia, all prove him to have been a bold, bad man."
               "Nay, papa, you're severe; the exigencies of the times called for the display of his prowess. France thirsts for glory; I think Napoleon understood that were he to remain quietly at home, crowned in a palace, the nation would weary of crying 'Vive l'Empereur!' to a man sprung from the people. He knew that the shout 'En avant!' would stir their love for him into vital force; would keep the guillotine idle. He knew that to retain his hold on the hearts of that fickle populace, he must cross steel with Europe's chivalry and mould it to his will."
               "His adherents uphold him with pleasant sophistry, but not the less is it a vain one," returned her father. "What is your opinion, Mr. Brent?"
               I replied that I admired the military tactics of Napoleon, the indomitable will he evinced during his various campaigns, etc., but that I did not approve of him as a man or an emperor; that he was wholly unfit to be the recipient of the nation's gift, and was like to a child playing with its toy. I concluded by repeating emphatically that there was much in his character to be condemned.
               That silly little Fay turned upon me with flashing eyes. Strange! at times she was a veritable child, with all of childhood's whims and caprices; again, she was a woman, noble and dignified of mien, vigorous in speech and earnest of thought.
               "If every man's character were to lie bare before the public gaze, sir, how few would carry the palm for virtue and integrity! I love France; of all countries her history, to me, is the most interesting. And in the career of Napoleon I see personified two of the loftiest attributes,—courage and perseverance. Where can you point out a character to equal him, pray?"
               "I might name you some that surpass him," exclaimed Mr. Vairin. "There are men of far nobler standard than your Bonaparte, child. The greatest hero is that man who battles with and subdues his own nature; the splendor of true glory is achieved by him alone. The world's imperial Cæsars and Alexanders quite pale in contrast to such a one."
               "You are right, Mr. Vairin," echoed I. "In self-battle the foe with which we deal is not overcome by the power of might. The moral hero, therefore, gains the mastery by virtue of his own daring; the glory of victory is not dimmed by a triumph gained through the force of over-powering numbers."
               "True, true; and vastly different, this warfare, from that of the world's chieftains. With few exceptions, the pages of history reveal success to be due to a superior clash of arms. It is a sad verity that the Macedonian who figures largely in every child's book in the kingdom was an arrant coward, totally insufficient to rule the empire of himself; great in one sense, smaller than the meanest cottager in another. Hecatombs of illustrious names have shriveled away in this moral heat; many have been hurled to their doom. And what were the motives inciting an Alexander, a Cæsar (ay, even 'with a senate at his heels'), or a Bonaparte to the field of strife? Courage such as theirs is somewhat akin to that of the brute seeking its prey; for it was solely a desire for the annexation of territory, the thirst for spoil, a greed for fame spurring them onward and upward. It cannot be denied that the noblest type of courage is that which culminates in a moral point of view,—a character such as of one whose conscience, marking the deeds and impulses of his heart, even as a clock strikes the hours, dares to do right in the face of the most terrible temptation."
               "But, papa, where will you find one of this adamantine nature to be subjected to the trial of virtue? Mankind are far from infallible, and only too readily succumb to a weakness."
               Then said he, solemnly: "If we fail, it is to our own account; we did not throw heart and soul into the contest, but fled as traitors early in the action."
               "I think, sir," I exclaimed,—"I think there are those around us who would sacrifice even life rather than dishonor their fair fame; who would——"
               "Preaching again," whispered Walter in my ear.
               "That is the cry always," indignantly interrupted the little abbey girl. "Fair fame! There is the sore point with you men of honor; yes, death would be far preferable to the destruction of this brittle toy. It is your 'fair fame' that is guarded so zealously, your 'fair fame' that winces from every stab. The ancients set up their idols of clay and stone not more blindly than do you men of principle this golden calf typifying honor, fame, etc."
               "But why, young lady, should you enact the rôle of iconoclast?" I inquired. "If memory serves me correctly, you have before expressed an antipathy to the right in a similar argument. Surely you do not condemn those of humanity for upholding virtuous principles?"
               
               "No, Mr. Brent, of course not Unfortunately, though, those of mankind that merely uphold virtuous principles are far greater in number than those that practice them. There's a great deal of cant and high-sounding phrases among you. I detest cant."
               Mr. Vairin here rose, and walked to the window. He stood there with his arms folded, silently surveying the scene, then turned towards us suddenly, and addressed himself to his daughter.
               The tall figure was drawn to its full height. I could not define the expression that had changed his face oddly and so painfully. The words he spoke were as follows:
               "Silly child, you do not weigh the import of your words; you saunter forth, Don Quixote fashion, not aware that you fight with windmills. Nay, more,—you put a lance in rest for convictions that are unwomanly, reasoning that is false. I wish this error corrected."
               His voice, though calm, wavered; and, moreover, bore an air of annoyance.
               The reproof was received in silence. The young lady merely bowed her head in token that she heeded. But I thought there was a something hidden beneath this smooth, outward surface of speech and manner; a something mutually recognized by father and daughter.
               When angry, the Fay grows pale; her face becomes expressionless. When she blushes I am convinced a pleasure rose has burst for very gladness and scattered its bloom upon her cheek. At that moment she sat white and motionless.
               Finally her eyes rose, but, meeting mine, turned away with an expression I could scarcely fathom. Was it scorn or aversion? For the life of me I could not decide. What a silly, silly Fay were you, my little friend of the abbey!
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               THE moon was alight when our guests took their leave. There was a motion from Walter that the girls should get their wraps and stroll down the road a piece with the visitors. This proposition was immediately acceded to, and, as the carriage had come from the abbey to convey Mr. Vairin home, he willingly allowed Fay the proposed jaunt by moonlight, while he, entering the vehicle, was whisked briskly away.
               As we moved down the avenue, the gay laughter of the young people ahead floated back to us. For some reason their mirth jarred me. With only a dim consciousness of my sister's presence, I seemed to be following on in the wake of some unknown desire.
               Ever and anon a dress gleamed white in the moonlight. Ever and anon a laugh poured its rich music to my ear. When a turn of the road concealed the figures from view, I addressed some remark to Lucy,—about the dimness of the moon, I believe. She did not agree with me, however; she thought the night had never been finer or brighter.
               Upon reaching the abbey, Walter accompanied Miss Vairin up to the portico. I remained in the path, and stood for a moment leaning against the gate, replying to some query of her father.
               A low murmur of words drifted to me; then my brother's easy laugh, and presently her sweet, full voice rose as she called, "Good-night, Mr. Brent." Walter and the girls then came away.
               In his hand the former held a spray of sweet-brier. As we left the abbey behind us, he cried, "What a glorious odor! Here, old fellow, have a whiff."
               "No; I detest sweet-brier."
               
               He thrust one hand into his pocket, giving a prolonged whistle.
               "What! my staid brother actually detesting! That's a stage of education I never thought he'd arrive at. Why, I must congratulate you, old boy! Go on, go on, in the cultivation of that estimable feeling."
               The others walked ahead, chatting as girls will chat, and we had proceeded but a trifle farther when Walter burst out with, "But, man, this is no ordinary sprig; 'tis the branch a fair lady has worn on her bosom for the evening. Come, don't cut up a bobbery about it now, for you'll have to take a whiff, if only to please me. I say you must do it."
               "Cease this foolery," said I. "We aren't children."
               "Now, old fellow, you know you've your way in everything; you rule me like a tyrant as you are, but, by Jove, I'll have my way this time; be reasonable for once, and give in."
               Seriously, I was thinking about that certain project once before mentioned, and did not fancy having my musings interrupted. Walter's persistence annoyed me, therefore.
               What cared I for an insignificant thicket-rose?
               "But I say you shall give in; for once, old fellow," he reiterated, "just for once, you might be reasonable." And, seizing my arm, the branch was thrust under my nose.
               "There, now, Geoffrey, for the first time in my life I've conquered. I say, you're improving wonderfully. Go on; that was gloriously done." (Unintentionally I had brushed the brier from his hand, and it fell to the ground, lying there in the roadside dust.) "What's come over you, old fellow? You're throwing off your chrysalis state; you're doing all sorts of wonderful exploits. Now, I consider the dashing away of my poor offering quite an epoch in your history. From an old humdrum sort of a fellow, you're advancing into quite a respectable party."
               The little group laughed out at this, and Walter, for some length of time, kept up the flow of raillery.
               My mind was wavering between the yea and nay of aforesaid project, so I little heeded their bantering.
               "Did Hope give you the flower?" Nell asked.
               "Of course. Do you think I'd have taken it without permission?"
               By that time my mind had decided upon the yea.
               "That is," continued the speaker, "it dropped from her brooch, and I, picking it up, asked to keep it. She said she didn't care whether I kept it or not,—it was of no value to anybody,—a worthless thing."
               We were home; and, lingering upon the balcony beneath the moon-rays, my plan was laid straightforwardly before the assembled family.
               It was this. That we should turn our backs upon Wild-moor for a season. That we should go abroad, and brush off our rusticity amid the whirr of the world. That we should exchange our comfortable English home for uncomfortable quarters in the Hôtel des Etrangers, Paris, and in other cities to which we would journey. That we should deliver ourselves as victims to hackmen, guide-books, railway officials with big bushy beards, and waiters with foreign tongues and foreign dishes. That we should bewilder our English ears and English tastes with all the villainous rhetoric and villainous compounds the foreigners chose to pour in upon them. In short, that we should render ourselves supremely miserable for the pleasure of announcing to the world, "We are going abroad."
               A majority of three ruled a minority of one. To our surprise, Walter utterly disapproved of the proposal, and refused point-blank to become a party to so "stupid" a frolic.
               But there was a scream, and a flourish of arms about my neck; it announced the fact that Nell was eager to become a victim.
               I fear that I unwound her arms with no gentle grasp; that I pushed her away with no tender motion. I much fear that I was a selfish, vacillating fool. It was not "good" of me to arrange this journey; it was much against my will that I did so. I strongly suspected myself of being (to quote Walter's American phrase) an "old fogy."
               You see, I clung to my home. British I was, and, with the native repugnance for change, was loth to leave it I fear, as I have just said, that Geoffrey Brent was merely a selfish, vacillating fool.
               Walter thrust both hands into his pockets, giving another prolonged whistle, and stared at me the while.
               "Go it, old boy! go it! I see there's an out-and-out reform. Who'd have believed you could be induced to turn out from your den? Whew! I say, this is beginning to look interesting; once started on the road to improvement, the Lord only knows where you'll end."
               "When can you be ready?" I asked of Lucy.
               "This is Monday, the 4th. Let us leave Thursday noon, and catch the 3.20 train from L——."
               My brother sprang from his chair. "I say, good people," exclaimed he, "it's not fair to run away and leave a fellow when he's taken a notion for work. You're cutting up most deuced bobberies about this sort of thing, anyhow!"
               "Why not? Surely you'll accompany us?" I remonstrated.
               "Not I, indeed! Humph! I'm determined to stop loafing, and put myself to the wheel. Work!—why, I've got to work."
               "Oh, hang the work!" said I, much irritated.
               "Seriously, Geoffrey, I can stay at home and stand guard, you know. Be reasonable for once, old fellow, and give in, for I'll not budge an inch."
               But I couldn't understand his preference for Wildmoor just then; truly, work seemed to have turned his brain.
               Wednesday came, the day preceding that which was to witness our departure; and what a morn it was! Lucy, Nell, and the maids buried amidst a ruin of wardrobes, bandboxes, and trunks; closets standing open; shelves, pegs, and drawers gaping wide in emptiness. A scene of sublime confusion; a scene calculated to make a man turn his eyes devoutly to the empyrean, thanking the Maker for creating him other than woman; a scene inciting him to rush pell-mell from the house and bury himself deep in woods and consort there only with wild creatures.
               "For the sake of heaven," protested I, "why all this luggage! How will you possibly manage this regiment of gowns?"
               "Indeed I don't know," returned Lucy, shaking her head and gazing up helplessly at me from her position between two great hills of garments.
               That helpless look staggered me; instantaneously it forced me from the apartment in a moralizing strain of humor. In the hall I met Walter accoutred in riding-boots and coat. Having a particular desire for his presence at home just then, I asked him if his business abroad were pressing; and, if not, where he intended going.
               His business was not urgently pressing, he affirmed, coloring quite unnecessarily; but Nell had commissioned him to ride over to the abbey and induce the young lady there to accompany him back to Wildmoor.
               "Oh, Walt, how shocking of you to tell such a fib!" called Nell, raising her head from the depths of a gigantic trunk and peering out at us. "I didn't say that at all. But it would be nice if she'd come, wouldn't it, now? Won't you go and bring her over? Do; that's a dear, good, bad old Walt!"
               Blushing like any girl, the lad laughingly dashed away down the staircase, and in a moment or two the clattering of a horse's hoofs along the avenue announced his departure.
               In two hours, probably, from that time a carriage drove into the park, and a sweet, sunny face looked out upon those old stone lions guarding the balcony. It was Miss Vairin. Nell rushed headlong out to welcome her, then bore her away to the regions above, and I turned back into my den. I had set myself the task of arranging my books, files of papers, letters, etc., and had gotten them wellnigh in order, when the two girls came tripping past the library door, went on towards the garden, and soon were beneath my window, leisurely pacing the walks.
               Once or twice it happened that I looked out upon the park, therefore could not avoid catching a glimpse of those silly young creatures. Nevertheless, the landscape was brighter that day, to my thinking; so it was that frequently, during pauses in the progress of my task, I had occasion to glance out into the park upon that summer landscape.
               
               The last book had turned its familiar face to the wall, the last file of papers was being safely stowed away, when the door was flung wide, and Nell, dragging the Fay forward, came hurrying towards me.
               She cried, impetuously, "Martin's come from L——, brother, and brought two of the sweetest horses! Come out, quick, and see 'em. It's a surprise for some of us, now, ain't it?"
               "Two horses! How happens that?"
               The pair followed after me as I went on towards the stable-yard. There we were brought to a stand-still. Martin Cross raised his hat to the girls, looking askance at them the while, and said,—
               "I thought t'wur best, sur, to bring on thet white un too, an' not leave it to th' abbey till yo ha' seen it. Here they both be."
               Miss Vairin looked at me inquiringly. "Why leave one at the abbey, Mr. Brent? What does the man mean?"
               "What does he mean?" smiled I, going up to the pair of animals that stood full-blooded and lithe-limbed in the stable.
               By this time the news had spread like wildfire, and impetuously came Walter four steps at a jump from the house. Lucy followed more quietly. Thus in family conclave were we all assembled.
               "What does it mean?" smiled I. "It means this, young lady: when business hurried me to London, a few weeks ago, I had it in my mind to present my brother with a birthday-gift. Knowing his predilection for horseflesh of the best breed, I ordered this for him" (pointing to the darker steed); "and, remembering that your pony had not been forthcoming when spoken of by 'papa,' what should I have the presumption to do but speed those dallying jockeys along in the business of complying with their patron's wishes; so here is a pony that was to have been dropped for you at the abbey, and——"
               "For me? To be my very own?"
               "For you, and to be your very own."
               "But—but—I imagine papa forgot about speaking to the horse-dealers when in town; how—he——"
               "Did he forget? Perhaps not," echoed I; "perhaps not. Tell him the horse-dealer says not, and that he regrets his negligence in not complying sooner with the order, and that the transaction was settled some time ago. So there is nothing left for you to do but to mount upon his back and speed away over moor and hill, and be just as happy a little girl as can be found in the county."
               Those were wonderfully glowing eyes that looked up at me, and that was a tremulous hand that impetuously, upon the spur of the moment, seized mine and wrung it heartily. The voice, too, that said, "You've been too kind, to thus trouble yourself. Oh, thank you, thank you ever so much!" was a gay, a gladsome voice, as its owner sprang towards the animal. She stroked its glossy head, murmuring the while a string of fond, gentle epithets.
               It was of Andalusian breed, with limbs well proportioned, head small and delicately poised; the nostrils were dilating, quivering with fire; in color, the beautiful creature was snow-white. There was a memory of that warm Southern Spain breathing through every feature of the face, even the limbs, and a glow from her spicy groves seemed to have infused itself into the animal's nature; it was a creature of untamed impulse.
               There were murmurs of applause passing through the small company. My brother, too, was exuberantly exultant over his gift,—chestnut in color, of fiery mettle, and possessed of remarkable beauty.
               "It shall be named Margot Dean," said he. "Let the old Margot Dean abdicate in favor of this charmer; I'll none of her."
               "Fickle boy!" chimed in Lucy. "The last is the best loved with you, I fear."
               "Now, Luce, I call that being hard on a fellow. Don't you get to cutting up any bobberies about me or my loves, I warn you. It ain't fair; it ain't, by George!"
               "Name yours a real pretty name, Hope," exclaimed Nell; "do, that's a dear. Imogen would be nice, you know."
               "No,—'Thunder and Lightning'; that's much nicer, Nell," interrupted Walter, with a wicked look towards her.
               
               "You shocking boy!" returned she, laughing.
               "I'll appeal to Miss Lucy," said the Fay. "Miss Lucy, what shall it be?"
               "I think," said she, "'Lady Fashion' would suit that glossy white skin, and that head so scornfully tossing at us. Look! is it not a superb creature?"
               So, forthwith, Lady Fashion was decided upon.
               "Let us try the nags," exclaimed my madcap brother. "I'll stake my head on it, Miss Hope, you're an out-and-out rider. Come, Martin, saddle 'em, and we'll soon tell."
               "Walter, are you mad?" I cried. "The girl would not dare ride so spirited a horse; why, as yet, no lady has sat upon her back. Miss Vairin, you must not attempt it; your groom will first get her in paces. I positively forbid you!"
               "'Must not,' and 'forbid'! Those are strong words, sir."
               "Aha!" laughed Walter; "that's all you know about the young lady! She's got as much mettle in her as the pony. There's no danger, old fellow; I'll take care of her."
               "I can manage the horse, Mr. Brent. Shall I try? Ah, please say I may!"
               "No," I reiterated. (It was hard to be firm with those gray eyes burning towards me.) "No, Miss Vairin, if you will heed my counsel, you'll not attempt a ride to-day."
               "Do you think me a coward?" she asked.
               "No, but reckless; there is no bravery in such a course." Unluckily, if anything could have determined her plan of action, these words of mine might have done so.
               "Indeed, I'll not be thwarted, sir; I like my own way too well."
               Walter gazed at me triumphantly. Lucy seemed disturbed. Saying nothing, but seizing an old whip, I walked to the stable-door and deliberately cut a bush leafless.
               You see, I liked my way, probably.
               The animal was led outside after the various equipments had been adjusted. There was some demur concerning a habit; the child stoutly objected to the delay and trouble. "I'll just take a turn down the avenue," she pleaded. "It's not necessary, the waiting for one."
               Walter bowed his knee as gallantly as ever did knight of old. The little foot rested upon his palm for a moment; then, with a bound the girl was in the saddle. There was a start, a plunge, a low cry from the restive horse as her hand drew the rein. It shook with anger at the unfamiliar touch. Every limb quivered, and the eye glowed viciously; then it reared on its hind feet, wheeling round and round.
               "For God's sake," cried Lucy to me, "try and check her! This is terrible! fearful!"
               But in an instant the animal became motionless; foam chafed at her mouth, and she quivered visibly.
               A hand stole over the proud head. "Ah, you see, my beautiful one, I will be mistress; you'll not struggle so again."
               The Fay was wonderful in her beauty that day. She seemed to radiate in a circle of light and joy. Her dress was of some soft material; a thread of lace encircled the throat; a quantity of it fell over her wrists, and now and then a glimpse of a white arm was revealed.
               "Come, now, Geoffrey," exclaimed Walter, "give in, and say that was well done."
               Lady Fashion had bounded off. Once, we caught a gleam of floating ribbons; again, saw horse and rider moving forward with swift motion, yet gracefully as a bird cleaves the air.
               "Is she not lovely?" mused Lucy; "and yet I sigh when that untamed spirit flashes out. It will reap sorrow, I fear, bitter sorrow, before that proud nature shall be taught to yield."
               "And why should she yield?" exclaimed Walter. "Bah! I hate your sweet, meek, wishy-washy girls,—the sort that drown you in honey and melt you in butter! I wouldn't have her different; would you, Geoffrey?"
               "I am no authority upon such matters," I replied, coldly.
               "Well, well, old boy, we know that too well. Come, now, I'll wager you can't tell if she's plain or handsome; whether she has blue eyes or black; or if she squints; or—but look! There's our Di Vernon for you! By Jove, she's splendid!"
               
               Miss Vairin here rode up, drawing rein beside us. Her hand wandered caressingly through the horse's mane.
               "Don't be angry, Mr. Brent," said she. "Now that I've conquered, too! See! we are on the best of terms," softly patting the silky neck of Lady Fashion.
               "I'm delighted, Miss Hope," cried Walter, "that you should have taken a double-first; it reflects upon my discernment, you know. I was always voted as being perfect in that line. H-m-ha! How's that, Luce?"
               What a day was that! When evening came, the Fay insisted upon returning home mounted upon Fashion's back. Naught more had I to say.
               So the leave-takings were gotten through with, and the little form placed in the saddle, when Walter came riding from the stable upon Margot Dean to escort the willful child home.
               The abbey carriage had come over for Miss Vairin, but the driver was necessitated to plod his lonely way homeward behind the two equestrians, who went dashing off at break-neck speed.
               Before they had departed, Lucy mounted on the stand, and pressed a farewell upon the lips offered for a parting salute.
               "Good-by, Mr. Brent." She held down her gloved hand; then exclaimed, "No, let me draw off my glove first. I mayn't see you in a long time, sir, and I'd rather remember every incident of the day with pleasure."
               We shook hands.
               "Good-by," she exclaimed, gayly; "a pleasant and a safe journey."
               With a bound the horses were off; I watched them until they were beyond vision, then turned to enter the house. A glove lay upon the ground; so small, so delicate of make it was. I smoothed its little crumpled fingers and brushed the dust from its tiny palm; even pressed it reverently in my hand for a while.
               When in doors again, I have a faint remembrance of unlocking my private desk and placing the glove in it, beside the trifling pattern of a boat that had been secured from a little friend of mine (merely as a relic, remember, as a token of the skill with which that boy carved out figures of maritime vessels, and because I thought he appreciated the occasional efforts I had made to teach him a thing or two in that line).
               There are some strange, wonderful times in life, when the earth is flooded with new radiance; new birds sing upon the trees; new flowers blow adown the grassy hillsides; even the roses, swinging upon their boughs, laugh in upon us; and the mountain beck, fresh from its northern home, prattles only of summer thistles and the wild bluebells that hide upon its banks.
               Ay, a strange and a wonderful time it seems! The sheen is all about us, the majesty upon us, e'en though oft we know it not.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "'Tis strange how much is marked on memory
                        In which we may have interests, but no part;
                        How circumstances will bring together links
                        In destinies the most dissimilar."
                     
                  
               
               A NEW leaf in my journal! A new leaf in my life! I wonder why I am so happy; I wonder why everybody is so kind. Dear, dear! to think that people should really like me, and care to speak softly to me, and be tender over my youth and follies, when indeed I'm far from deserving it!
               What a sleepy, pleasant, odd village is this! I'm growing to love this moorland country. Love! That's a strong word.
               A queer thing happened day before yesterday. You know my meaning, journal darling; you know my pride in my beautiful pet; you know that I've now found a friend, a friend honest, true, and noble, in the dainty Lady Fashion. And a patrician dame she is, too.
               Not to go over the whole story, I will catch up a thread just where, being lifted from her back and crying a hasty adieu to my escort, I sped on to find papa. Janet stopped me at his door.
               "You'll not go in yonder, Miss Hope; your papa gave orders that he shouldn't be disturbed on no account. And it's high time you had ought to be behavin' like a Christian, and a settin' down to your embroidery."
               A dash of cold water on my enthusiasm! I didn't attempt the embroidery, however, but went and thrummed the piano for pure spite. All the evening papa kept his room. The following morning, with the dawn I sprang from bed, eager to tell my news. He was nowhere visible, and I could only pace the garden until breakfast.
               Six, seven, eight,—at last nine, and then I fairly started. But the dining-hall gloomed silently before me; only the butler was there, who took me beneath his wing, and buttered my toast in the most skillful manner, while announcing the fact that papa was indisposed, and would not make his appearance until the afternoon. I could have beaten him through vexation. Why couldn't they have said this from the first? After dispatching a hasty meal, I went to his chamber and tried the door. It was locked.
               Nothing to do but be nicely miserable for the remainder of that day; so I got the embroidery, and sat down to it, to punch more holes in my hands and scallop more finger-nails than one cares to do ordinarily.
               It was late in the afternoon when my waiting was at last rewarded. Papa came out for a walk in the garden. I joined him, and asked how he felt, and if I could be of any service to him.
               "No."
               And then I could keep in no longer. "Oh, sir, you were so kind as to buy me a beautiful horse, and now it's here, really here, and I've ridden already! Thank you again and again."
               He opened his eyes. "I? Why, I ordered nothing of the kind. What do you mean? There must be a mistake!"
               "Mistake! Oh, papa!" And my heart jumped with fright. Then I told him everything. He listened, and looked very grave during the recital, shaking his head when I spoke of Mr. Brent and the horse-dealer.
               "There is a mistake," he said. "Once for all, remember it is my command that you be under obligations to no person. I am sorry this has occurred, for it places both you and myself in an embarrassing position. See to it that you avoid similar errors in future. I will make it all right, however, or at least my banker in London shall do so."
               He went into the house, and there was all my joy strewed to the winds. But why should Lord Ogre have done such a thing? It was silly of him, certainly. That night I got into bed very early, and turned my face to the casement, where all the glitter of night could flash in upon me. I could hear a dog bark somewhere across the dark moor, and almost feel the dimness of the outside world pressing about me. It seemed sweet and mysterious,—that quietude where dreams were lurking around and visions floating overhead. Did I dream, journal? Possibly I did; but there! there! never mind asking the why and wherefore, and the etceteras.
               
               My pen stopped short just then; I've come back to it two days later to tell of something strange that has transpired.
               The morning succeeding that night of wondrous dreams, papa came to me in the garden, where I was training a rose-bush. Much to my surprise, he said,—
               "Child, you mope at home too much; this must not be. And your gardening! It tears your hands after a barbarous fashion; why not wear gloves?"
               "Oh," exclaimed I, "I'm brave, papa; these scratches couldn't make me wince. Do you know I have sometimes tried experiments on my flesh to find out its powers of endurance? They're strong, papa, and I think I could bear sorrow wonderfully."
               He scanned me closely. "No, not so; youth is impatient under sorrow, and submits only after fierce struggling. You, child, would wrestle with fate, and would not meekly accept a portion from which every joy has been drained. It is age alone that fosters patience."
               "Oh, sir," I cried, almost frightened, too, at my own temerity, "there's no use in tormenting life with forebodings bodings. See how happy, how gay am I!" And I trolled a strain or two from a charming French air, that provoked a smile upon his usually grave countenance. "But what am I to do, if not garden, or walk, or read?"
               "It is a pleasant day for a ride, is it not?" he asked. "You may as well put your pony to use, since it is yours, and why not pay a visit to Briarly? They were inquiring for you yesterday, and it would be well for you to cultivate the acquaintance of that family. Come, I'll accompany you as far as the manor."
               Exclaiming "Oh, papa, how I shall relish the visit!" I hurried off. This was an unusual occurrence, that he should plan out my pleasure or enjoyment. I was glad, for it is when commingling with his fellow-beings that my father stands exhibited in true native character. There is no more courteous or entertaining companion, no more polished gentleman or classic scholar. I am proud of his address and attainments,—a gentleman of the old school,—dignified, stately, chivalrous.
               I went to my room and donned my habit. It was of dark plum-color, relieved at the throat by a strip of collar and a knot of ribbon. The plumes of the hat drooped gayly over my hair, that lay folded back in masses, falling low on my neck, half braids, half curls. In passing, I glanced at the mirror. There was myself in a new character, and for a moment I stood in girlish exultation, contemplating the figure in the glass, as, with riding-whip grasped in one hand and trained skirt held aside with the other, it stood with flashing eye and merry lip.
               The horses had been brought round. Lady Fashion was impatient to be away. She champed her bit, tossed her head, and scornfully resisted the groom's attempts at soothing her restive spirit.
               Joel came out to see us off. "Ay, Miss Hope," said he, "it do one's old heart good to see your bonny face a smilin' from under the hat it had ought to wear. I see Mr. Breant yesterday, sir, come ridin' past the road as if he were'n a mighty hurry. He said as how I were to present his respects to the master and my young leddy."
               "They were going then," I thought; and with a bound was in the saddle, my foot in the stirrup, and my heart thrilling with pleasure.
               Several times I caught papa's eye following me with a glance of pride, yet tempered with regret or sorrow, or some undefined expression of melancholy. After a ride of a few miles the manor was reached. I rode up alone, for papa left me at the outer gate. An attendant took my horse, and simultaneously with a greeting from the hostess I found myself surrounded by two or three little figures, whose hands and faces gave indication of recent acquaintance with bread and butter; in fact, these small people seem ever in such condition, but who dares resist their rosy, upturned lips? Before there was time to notice my little friends, though, a maid or two had swooped down from some neighboring eyrie and borne them off, not without the usual amount of clamor and struggling. I turned to Mrs. Briarly with a gesture of impatience.
               "Must they always be tortured? How I should hate visitors if I were a child!"
               She laughed merrily. "Oh, nurse has contrary ideas upon the subject, and whisks them off at most unexpected seasons. But come,—come into the dining-room; lay off your hat, do. Luncheon is ready,—and I've somebody to show you."
               Her manner was all impulse and naïveté then. She's a clever little lady. By "clever" I don't mean what is termed smart, skillful, or ingenious; but that quality whose sprightliness, tact, and amiability render its possessor a favorite among high or low, rich and poor. Ay, she has the riches of life in abundance. When her husband refers to "my Bess," his eye lights up and his tone grows deep and tender. Better, far better, is the lot of such women than that of others who boast loveliness or intellect. Barred from partaking of earth's choicest blessings, what triumph can beauty or mind yield?
               In the dining-room, sunshine was tracing shadows upon the oaken floor and lighting up the panels of the old mahogany furniture. It was an early day in October,—that season of berries and dropping nuts; the air was unusually warm and balmy, as if summer, mislaying her choicest rose-blossom upon the green of earth, had returned turned to fold the wanderer to her bosom before speeding to greet the young South,—her gracious lord.
               For awhile my hostess looked about with an air of restlessness; she walked to the window; she gazed into the garden; then, fronting me, she said, after an exultant fashion,—
               "What do you really think, Hope? I can't keep it any longer: Harry's come!"
               She regarded me with beaming eyes.
               "As I've told you, you know, he's lived for six years out in that horrid India, among jungles, and beasts, and natives, and goodness knows what other ferocious creatures. He's come back now, all bearded and bronzed, and with a sort of regimental strut that I don't much fancy; but to see my own dear brother once more, I am over-willing to put up with foreign airs. Aren't you glad, Hope?"
               "My dear Mrs. Briarly," I said, taking her hand in mine, "I am rejoiced that at last you have your heart's desire; you deserve to have all your wishes granted."
               "And you?" she asked, scanning me narrowly; "what do you deserve?"
               "Oh," I laughed, "a few bonbons occasionally, when I'm good; but that isn't often, Mrs. Briarly."
               "You tiresome girl" (shaking my shoulder), "you shall have a present far better than mere bonbons,—an interesting young man, for instance. Why, don't you think of marrying, my dear?"
               "Don't, please, launch on that topic again, dear madam, I beg of you; an interesting young man's a regular bugbear."
               "Well, anyhow, if a man is that, he has a heart, and hearts are worth something, my dear. Now, deny that, if you can."
               I protested, laughingly, that even idea of denial was foreign to my thoughts.
               "Isn't it provoking?" continued she. "Where can that brother of mine be? We were just talking of you, Hope, in this very room, Harry and I, when Susie ran in to say you were coming; at least I was talking, and he listening. Of course, my tongue expatiated on the charms of my friend, and Harry—well, he is unmanageable; he always ways used to tease me about my partialities, as he terms them."
               I couldn't help being amused at Mrs. Briarly's volubility; throughout the term of our acquaintanceship she has dwelt continually on the theme, "my brother Harry." In like manner, I suppose, she has rung my praises in the gentleman's ear until, no doubt, he hears the name "Hope Vairin" with dread and aversion.
               "What makes you laugh?" she inquired.
               "I was thinking that your brother has made good his escape from the overpowering 'charms of your young friend,' probably. But where are the children, and what has become of little Harry?"
               Her face clouded over. "Harry is in disgrace," she whispered; "his father punished him for some rough ways to Susie. He's in the drawing-room. Go in, dear, and coax him into a good humor. You know you're his favorite."
               If there's a weak spot in the lady's heart, it is evinced in an over-indulgence to her children; like all good people, she at times waxes monotonous on one subject, and that consists in an enumeration of Johnny's croups or Susie's sore throats, in a recounting of miraculous escapes from infantile convulsions or indigestions. These platitudes become wearisome after a repetition of some half-dozen times; but, her mind diverted from that channel, Mrs. Briarly is pleasant and entertaining; from the first she won my liking and esteem.
               The boy Harry is eleven years of age, an out-and-out boy, with boisterous manner and roguish spirit; his pranks often plunge him into disgrace, which he resents with sulks and fits of angry spleen; but what a little hero he is in my sight!
               I opened the drawing-room door and went up the full length of the room before discovering him. The windows were unclosed; an atmosphere loaded with garden scents came stealing through. I approached the casement opening upon a balcony. There, within its embrasured recess, stood the object of my search, maiming flies. Evidently he'd been asleep; crimson spots glowed on his cheeks, hair stood unkempt, and at intervals of rest from his self-appointed labors he yawned drowsily.
               
               Talk of the nobility of youth soaring above cruelty to insects, etc.! I dare say the greatest hero of the age stood at his mother's window and laid traps for innocent flies; yes, and maimed their wings, and pulled off their heads and legs, too.
               I went up behind the boy and pressed my hands over his eyes, crying, "Guess!"
               "I won't! I won't! Go 'way now, and leave me alone!"
               He struggled, and then I drew my hands away. The little fellow turned into a corner, standing there and frowning ominously. We'd been firm friends heretofore, and I resolved to win him from his ill humor. "Harry," said I, "won't you come and see the pretty horse I have? It's snow-white, and is named Lady Fashion."
               "No, I won't!" he retorted.
               "Why?"
               "Because I hate girls; I won't have anything to do with 'em!"
               "Oh, Harry, you shouldn't speak so!"
               "But I will, though; they're always gettin' fellows into trouble. Susie screams if you look at her, and she gets me set on a chair for nothing at all."
               "She is such a little thing," I argued, "and you—a tall boy. Now, I know you wouldn't let any bad boy pinch or cuff her about."
               "If she pulled his hair I'd let him,—if she pulled it like she does mine."
               There was no refuting that argument, so I said, quickly and blithely, "She'll improve in time. But, Harry, don't you remember the nut-tree you were going to show me, and the new dog-kennel, and the little rabbit? and we're to have a game of tag on the lawn; and where's the new boat you were going to launch? There's a heap to be done before evening, and if you don't hurry we won't have time."
               He had caught the infection of my enthusiasm immediately, but, persisting somewhat in sullen obstinacy, said, in gruff manner, "My boat has a real sail; I made it myself!"
               "Why, what a captain you'll be some of these years! I've never seen a boat-launch, and you promised to show me one, you know."
               "Will you come to the pond, then?"
               "Yes, indeed!"
               His face brightened, and, coming over to me, he exclaimed, with an air of reluctant self-sacrifice, "I've got some nuts in my pocket; you may have 'em."
               "No," I demurred; but the lad persisted in emptying the contents of said pocket into my lap. After gathering them up, we were turning to leave the room, when suddenly Harry darted forward, with an exclamation of delight, crying, "Why, here's uncle! Look, Miss Hope, here's uncle!"
               My eyes wandering to a little snuggery opening into the drawing-room, I saw therein the figure of a gentleman at full length upon a divan. He rose, upon finding himself observed, and came forward.
               "Miss Vairin, I presume" (bowing). "Captain Mild-may, at your service. I must claim acquaintance with you," he continued; "my sister speaks of her friends so frequently, one learns to know them by mere hearsay."
               Involuntarily I laughed. "Yes, and sometimes that is sufficient acquaintance. Some people become so well known by hearsay that we don't care to possess a further knowledge of them."
               "Why, that's very true indeed, miss. Now, I'd rather be shot than be forced to go through the ceremony of head-bowing or hand-shaking with some persons I hear of occasionally."
               "Do you always beat a precipitate retreat before their arrival?"
               He glanced at me in some surprise, and then, comprehending, chuckled knowingly; but through the bronze of the cheek a flush darted; he seemed disconcerted, but nevertheless exclaimed,—
               "I'll out with the truth; an old soldier, Miss Vairin, votes society a bore, and I didn't feel in the humor of playing gallant to-day; nay, that smacks of the false, for I'm never in the mood. In fact, I'm far too indolent to keep up with the style of very young ladies." Stroking his beard lackadaisically, he went on to say, "From the scene enacted before me a short while previous, I should deem, though, that you do not require the attentions of knight or cavalier. My experience of young ladies to the contrary, your entertainment clamors for little exertion of gallantry. Harry there seems to have attached himself exclusively to you, and you're quite content with your little squire!"
               "Yes, we are fast friends, sir; and, as there are numerous engagements on hand, we'll not further intrude upon you, but run away directly."
               So saying, my companion and I went on to the morning-room, where Mrs. Briarly gave a nod of approval, motioning us to be seated at the luncheon-table. The children were there already placed; a custom which in this household runs counter to the usual form of our English mothers. Captain Mildmay sauntered in, and I seized the opportunity to observe him narrowly. His complexion was swarthy from long residence beneath the fiery sun of India; the features were handsome; eyes of brilliancy, brown hair, and a beard of richest chestnut, that lent an imposing dignity to his physique. The gentleman's figure possessed a careless grace and an air of abandon peculiarly its own, which imparted an individuality to the otherwise "regimental strut" as termed by his sister. He waived the introduction she essayed to give, stating our rencontre in the drawing-room.
               "Well, Harry," she said, "I'm determined you and Hope shall be good friends. Do be sensible now, and act as if you were old acquaintances; 'tis but a lonesome neighborhood at the best, and you young people should make the most of this beautiful weather while it lasts; winter 'll soon be setting in."
               Captain Mildmay was preparing an egg with great precision. I watched him with interest while he was measuring out equal quantities of salt and pepper, and slicing the butter an exact square. Then, as he stirred the ingredients slowly, and according to mental rule perhaps, he looked up, and answered, "But, Bess, you take it for granted that Miss Vairin will accede to the compact of friendship you're forming. I should like to redeem my character in her sight; there isn't a favorable verdict rendered upon it, I see, by that flash of the eye."
               "It may speak falsely," said I; "you were frank in owning up that escapade, at any rate."
               "You do well, Miss Vairin, to admire candor; 'tis one of the few virtues I endeavor to possess."
               "Be as frank with me, then, as you please," I laughed; "but expect to receive similar treatment in return."
               "Done!" exclaimed he. "And now that I'm exempt from all necessity of playing gallant or uttering compliments, you must warn me of any relapse into the other extreme; for the roughness of barrack-life clings to me, and I'm too much of an old soldier to be otherwise than uncouth."
               At this juncture Mrs. Briarly seemed suddenly roused to a sense of maternal duty, saying, "Why, Hope, you haven't seen baby's new tooth; it's a real beauty. Dear little thing! It has cut them so far without any trouble at all. Now, Susie and Johnny were sick and fretting all the time; and I really thought they——"
               "Bess," interrupted the captain, "has the old gray mare with the spotted face quitted this mundane sphere yet?"
               The good lady perceived the drift of his motive in propounding the question, and, giving him a reproachful glance, proceeded silently in her occupation of buttering a slice of bread for one of the children. But the trifling cloud soon floated away, and, after a period of further light conversation, we arose from table.
               "How are the rabbits, Harry?" I inquired.
               "Oh, they're funny as ever! Come and see 'em."
               We went on to the stable, where, in a remote corner, the tiny creatures owned a home in an empty stall. There were three of them, white as snow, with pink eyes blinking at the light.
               "Oh, Miss Hope, aren't they pretty? Look, this is Puck, and this is Frolic, and here is Pink-eye."
               I leaned down to stroke the sleek skins and pinch the stupid ears; they went on nibbling their cabbage-leaves quite unconcernedly. One of them, Pink-eye, was so tame that when I raised him from his bed he merely bestowed on me a confiding glance, and let me caress him at pleasure. "This is the prettiest one of the lot," I said; "so gentle, and not afraid of strangers at all."
               
               Harry replied, "Yes, but aren't rabbits too stupid, Miss Hope, to know anything about being afraid?" The lad thrust his hands into his pockets and glanced at me quite philosophically. "That's what my natural science says, anyhow. It tells how rabbits haven't much sense; no, not sense,—instinct. Is that it, Miss Hope?"
               "Why, do you study natural science?"
               "Yes'm; and grammar, and arithmetic, history, and French, and——"
               "Stop! stop!" I interrupted, as he was thus enumerating these manifold acquirements in so rapid a manner that his face was growing red and excited. "And how do you manage to learn anything, with so great a variety forced into your little brain? Do you know much about grammar, Harry? Come, tell me how to parse girl. You like girls so much that you should learn all about them."
               "No, but I don't, though; don't like 'em a bit."
               "Well, anyhow, you must parse the word for me. Come, Harry."
               "Girl's a noun, isn't it? Common noun, isn't it?" (I say, "That's so; they are common.") "Singular number." Here he stopped, and looked mischievously at me. "That's true, Miss Hope! Girls are singular; they're such babies! Now, there's Susie; she's nine years old, and cries if you look at her. A fellow can't have any fun when she's around. I'm always being scolded for my manners on her account."
               "But, Harry," said I, "there's no 'fun' in boys behaving roughly; you must learn to be a little gentleman, and then nobody will complain of your manners."
               "Yes, like a boy I know" (contemptuously); "everybody pets him, and praises him up for a little gentleman. Why, he wears—what's it, now, girls have?—frills? no; laces: that's it—yes, lace all over his shirt, and velvet trowsers; and then he's afraid to play, for fear of soiling the fine clothes. I've even seen him boo-hoo like a girl!"
               The broadest expression of contempt in the vocabulary of my little companion seemed embodied in that one word "girl." So I relinquished the argument, with an unfavorable comparison, mentally, between the picture of the lad described and that of the one before me. Tall for his age, he held his head erect and his shoulders backward, so that the expansion of chest and lungs was rapidly developing. All my life have I possessed great liking for true boyish nature; one must penetrate beneath the rough outer bur to detect the rich kernel within. I think that boys bring into home a dash of the free world without; like a strong, fresh breeze they sweep into the quiet current of life, adding to its monotony a zest from the glee of merry hearts.
               We walked briskly through an extreme portion of the garden, and from thence into a lane skirting the orchard. The pond was soon reached. I stopped in admiration of the scene. The sheet of water lay at my feet; over a part of its surface a net-work of pond-lilies was entangled; beyond was a meadow where sheep browsed and cattle stood meekly eying the gambols of playful calves. Lawns, gardens, and orchards were clothed in autumnal beauty; the hawthorn-bushes were red with hips and haws; hazel-nuts were dropping from the trees. But how soon will this life of country quietude be laid under a frozen ban! I shuddered to think of the desolation that would follow on the footsteps of the ice-king. Blossoms rent in fragments; fruits and berries perishing; bushes stripped and torn; trees pendant with icicles. Winter rules with an iron will; he is hard, stern, rigorous. Well may the lowly fear him!
               Near the water's edge, Harry had constructed a rude sort of boat-house as a receptacle for his treasures. When he opened the door there was disclosed a shelf, upon which were ranged innumerable tiny hulks, masts, sails, and, indeed, almost every article necessary for a ship's rigging. Upon another shelf were sundry tools and implements that one would suppose used in fitting up the shop of a practiced ship-carpenter. But the crowning feature of the display rested upon a bracket suspended from a peg in the wall. It consisted of a miniature brig, full-rigged, and with Liliputian men for sailors and captain. It was truly a wondrous piece of mechanism, and presented a gallant sight, with sails spreading like a bird plumed for flight.
               My companion stood regarding me with an expression of delight while I examined the toy, descanting upon its merits the while.
               "It's a beauty," said he, proudly. "Who d'ye think gave it to me?"
               "Your uncle?" I suggested.
               He shook his head, and would have me to proceed unsuccessfully through the entire list of relatives, until, moved by sudden compassion for the lad's unfortunate head, that was kept in constant rotary motion, I declined hazarding a further guess.
               "Why don't you think of Mr. Geoffrey Brent? He gave it to me. Wasn't it good of him? And, Miss Hope, day before yesterday he came down here and showed me how to fix the rudder on my new boat. I believe he knows a heap; don't you?"
               "Yes, I suppose he does. But what's this for?" I asked, taking up a small yacht. "Why, Harry, you've cut my name on the stern!"
               "I'd a heap of trouble, though, before the letters would stand out, and I just spoiled a pretty little scollop the first time I tried it. Wait, let me show you. I made an H-O-P, and then the E comes too far away. It looked too funny. Where's it, I wonder? It was here yesterday, for Mr. Geoffrey looked at it, and wanted to know if I liked you so well as to name my boats after you."
               "And what did you tell him?"
               The boy blushed, looking confused.
               "Oh, Harry," I said, "is it true? Don't you like me?"
               He raised his head proudly, and, plunging both hands into his pockets, exclaimed, "Don't you ever believe that, Miss Hope! I told him I liked you so well that, when I grew up to be a tall man like he was, I'd marry you. And what d'ye think he said?"
               "I'm sure I cannot imagine."
               "Why, when I asked him if he wouldn't——"
               "Wouldn't what?"
               "Wouldn't like to marry you, he laughed, and said, 'I couldn't think of contesting any favors with such a rival as you, Harry; no, no, I'll not interfere.' Those were the words, for I remember I looked in papa's big dictionary afterwards for 'contesting' and 'rivals.'"
               "Well, I'm sure we don't want any of his liking or marrying! His brother's a great deal nicer; why don't you get him to fix your rudders?"
               "He don't know how, and he ain't near as smart, Miss Hope."
               "Remember, Harry," I exclaimed, unwittingly, "if you want to keep the good will of Mr. Brent, don't ever show yourself before him in a temper, with angry eyes and ugly words; be always sweet as honey, and mild as milk; say 'yes, sir,' and, 'if you please, sir,' as if butter wouldn't melt in your mouth, and let him have his own way all the time!"
               Saying this, in half-angry mood I walked out to the water's edge, and stood there, idly watching the light shifting on the lily-leaves. Harry came bounding from the boat-house, and shouted, "Now, don't you want to see the Hope Vairin launched?"
               "Yes, yes, my lad," responded a deep voice at my elbow. It was Captain Mildmay. He stood in an indolent attitude, with crossed feet, leaning against the trunk of a tree.
               "You're surprised to see me, Miss Vairin; but the fact is, I'm always turning up at unexpected seasons. Now, if you could have told Bess that I was to have touched at an English seaport yesterday morning, she wouldn't have believed you!"
               "And you've been away so very long!" exclaimed I. "How glad you must feel to be on native soil once again!"
               He shrugged his shoulders. "Why should I be glad?"
               "Not to see your friends?"
               "I wish you could even show me one."
               "Why, maybe you're a hero of romance, like Byron's Manfred, and need no friends, nor friendship."
               "No, not so. Pray don't think me a subject for romance; there's no spark of tragedy in my composition, I assure you; I never could imagine myself lacerated as with the agonies of the proverbial hero. Then, you see, I've undergone a heap,—almost roasted alive by a raging sun, and riddled by a dozen or so of bullets,—so it's no wonder I'm tough and cranny; besides, I'm a hard smoker, and, as I say, proof against all licks of snickering romance."
               
               "But," persisted I, "surely you used to know these people of the county; aren't you going to hunt them up, and learn who's dead, and who's married, and what's become of them all?"
               "Great Heaven forbid that I should! What's to me if all the world takes to marrying or dying?"
               "Now, then!" called Harry, triumphantly gazing at me, and kneeling beside the pond with the boat held above his head. There was stillness. The boy stooped lower yet, his hand touched the water, and, with a gentle push, the tiny craft glided upon her native element.
               "The bride goeth forth to meet the bridegroom," repeated Captain Mildmay, in serio-comic voice. "Miss Vairin, learn your destiny as symboled in the voyage of yon vessel. 'She walks the waters like a thing of life.' Aha, Harry, steady, steady! Now she's up again. There! has collided with a lily-berg; sinks; is gone, gone! Poor Hope Vairin!"
               I looked at the gentleman in surprise.
               "You perceive," he apologized, "I'm only making free with the name of my nephew's boat."
               It had disappeared. Harry ran to the opposite side of the pond, and we could see his head bent over the water, and his arms busy among the tangled vines. Presently he rose, and then the boat appeared to view, gliding towards us.
               "You'll rise superior to adverse fate," said my queer companion. "See, she escapes the snares and dangers around; she cleaves her way through all obstacles."
               I watched the craft with strange interest, as it came gliding on; there were tiny sails, and a mast-head, and a wooden man for a pilot; the sunbeams fell upon it, and made picturesque colors flashing in and out. "If it comes safely to my feet," cried I, "so shall I go safely through life; that boat represents me."
               "It sails proudly enough, Miss Vairin; without fear or tremor. So in Destiny,—fate needs to be steadfastly regarded; 'tis like a dog: fix it firmly with an unflinching eye, and it will cower before you; fear it, cringe to it, and 'twill crush you like a weed."
               He was a strong, muscular soldier; one well fitted to wrestle with the world. "And of the two, Captain Mildmay, who conquered,—you or fate?"
               He stroked his beard nonchalantly, repeating, in listless tone, "Why, to tell the truth, I was much too indolent to compel myself to the necessity of facing it, or to pursue the equally troublesome course of fawning to it. No, I toyed with fate until it wearied of my frolics, and suddenly left me in the lurch." He scarcely repressed a smile at the puzzled expression of my face. "'Tis the most respectable and comfortable mode of being treated, at any rate."
               We turned to mark the destiny of our miniature vessel; it had reached the middle of the pond, and was moving onward, slowly but surely. My features brightened with eager delight. Suddenly a shout went up from Harry; my arms dropped to my side, and the captain uttered a sort of suppressed grunt. The boat had receded from view; in the middle of the pond a tangle of weeds had caught it, and the leaves, enwrapping themselves about it, buried the pretty thing from sight. Alas! the "Hope Vairin" was wrecked forever.
               "I don't think the fate of your namesake at all prophetic of your own," the gentleman exclaimed, by way of consolation.
               "Oh," I said, "I'll take example from the career of the lost vessel, and steer clear of pitfalls, even if arising under the guise of lilies, those purest of natural creations." But in the depths of my heart there was a disappointment that the fragile toy should have been so short-lived; and, turning from the scene of the disaster, I began to retrace my steps towards the manor with a vague consciousness of the captain saying in my ear, "When dangers arise in seeming aspect, lily-fair and pure, then are we least capable of detecting the flimsy veil; we feel assured that the glitter is gold, that the worth is far-priced. You may be more fortunate than other mortals, Miss Vairin, in disentangling yourself from the deceptive net-work; but, believe me, you must share the common destiny,—that of encountering trials and dangers,—that of wrestling with, perhaps of conquering them. But you're just upon the threshold of life now, anxious for the first peep, I'll warrant: so what's the use of croaking?"
               
               "I may have had a first peep, sir," said I, sighing. "Life's a cheat, I begin to think."
               "How you speak! One would imagine you had a deal of experience, 'pon honor. But you're not disheartened at the outset, Miss Vairin? I'll wager you've yet to run a first heat!"
               "Do you think youth has no sorrows? It's not so bright a thing to all, sir!"
               "Still, it makes one brave under trouble. Be sure you use it wisely, now that it is yours to spend at pleasure. There's nothing under the sun so tantalizing as regret for a misspent youth!"
               "How you speak, sir! Do you regret your past? Would you spend it differently?"
               "I? The saints forbid! I'm over-satisfied, for, to tell truth, Miss Vairin, I was a jolly dog, and continually caught pleasure on the wing; r-r-r-r we'd go, jog-trotting through the days and nights. No, I'd not do otherwise for a kingdom."
               Upon entering, we found the lady of the manor seated in the morning-room, work-basket beside her, and fingers nimbly flying in concert with needle and thread. "Ah, my dear," said she, "I was just wishing for you. There, sit down to the piano and sing me one of your songs. But, Harry, don't be off now; Har—— Oh, was ever such a stupid!"
               After humming a couple of ballads, I wheeled round to watch the motion of those busy fingers.
               "Isn't it provoking, Hope? That miserable brother of mine, no doubt, has gone to finish his morning's nap. He's really too lazy for anything under the sun." The smile accompanying these words certified, however, that "that miserable brother" was none the less warmly regarded for his failing. "Indolent isn't the name for it," continued she; "why, I've seen him lounge a whole day upon the sofa, and never budge, though crowds of beautiful young ladies were fluttering about. He's actually too lazy to talk at times."
               Here the object of her wrath happened to enter, and overheard the latter portion of this speech. Possibly to verify the truth of her statement, he stretched himself upon a divan, and said, oddly, "Bess, you're complimentary, 'pon my soul. It is nevertheless true" (appealing to me), "for I couldn't manage to creep through the day if I lost my siesta. Out in India I possessed a rare Sleepy-Hollow of a nook, and I presume it has taught me the trick of dozing."
               "No, no, Harry," interrupted his sister, "you were always lazy. You haven't forgotten Scarborough, when you were the lion of the day, and the girls flocked around you like bees round honey; you haven't forgotten how you used to lounge all day and sleep all night, and wonder what people were made for. By the by, what ever became of the pretty girl you so nearly fell in love with? I forget her name, but she was very fair, and very beautiful; quite young at the time: not yet out of school. Then you managed to bestir yourself a little; breakfasted at eleven, dined at five, and waltzed all night; principally with her, too. Oh, dear, weren't the others put out! Do you know, Harry, I've often wished you had really fallen in love with that pretty girl, married, and settled down! What a pity 'tis you didn't! It would have done for your indolence, my boy. What's become of her, anyhow?"
               Just a slight shade of annoyance flitted over the captain's face during his sister's preamble. Stroking his beard, he replied, "She's no girl now, at any rate; that was eight years ago, you remember, and then the young lady was seventeen. From last accounts she was to marry a young lord; or rather, his purse and title. I dare say she's either a perverse spinster or what's ten times worse, a shrew of a wife. She had a temper, by Jove! What a pity I didn't fall in love with her, though! It was too bad of me, I'll be shot if it wasn't."
               His conceit was unpardonably palpable. I could scarcely repress the smile of derision haunting my lip. "Why, it's a miracle, Captain Mildmay," said I, "the young lady survived your cruel treatment. What a misfortune that gentlemen are so irresistible! Their victims fall by thousands; in truth, they're the great modern Juggernaut crushing us in triumphal march. What a pity indeed you were so heartless as to break the poor girl's heart!"
               He laughed aloud at my sally, exclaiming, "Nay, nay, Miss Vairin, you're too severe. Of course, I meant to reverse the case, attributing to the lady in question all responsibility for the unfortunate termination of our affaire du cœur."
               He here got up and stalked to the window, where, after beating a tattoo upon the glass for a time, he called out, "What a deuced out-of-the-way place you have, Bess! How can you expect a fellow to poke around these moors?"
               "You never used to think so," responded Mrs. Briarly. "When I was a girl, and we came to spend Christmas during the old Squire's lifetime, you evidently enjoyed the place."
               "Well, in a trifling way, yes; but I was confoundedly small then."
               "Hope 'll not think much of your temper, Harry; you've grown into a regular bear!"
               "I never aimed for a good temper, did I?" asked he, moodily eating the corners of his moustache.
               "I wish you wouldn't be cross, Harry; perhaps your luncheon doesn't agree with you."
               "Perhaps not," was the answer, as my gentleman marched from the room.
               Soon, a burst of music thrilled the air; strains joyous, jubilant, followed in rapid succession, pouring forth a great gush of melody. Then came a pause; and presently a low sobbing wail stole tremulously to my ear; it rose higher and higher, until, reaching a lofty eminence, it almost died away; then a minor chord struck in, and in rich harmony gushed forth one of Mozart's sonates, in so weird, so heart-piercing an inspiration, that, impetuously springing to my companion's side, I exclaimed, "Who is it? What is it? 'Tis like the wail of some desolate soul seeking its mate!"
               "Only Harry, my dear," murmured she. "I always know when he's in one of his turns. You'll find him yonder." I stole away through the drawing-room, until, reaching that little snuggery, I discovered there Captain Mildmay seated before an organ, his head thrown back, eyes closed, and fingers awaking the keys into glorious life. Leaning against a column, I listened spell-bound.
               The organ seemed no mere work of mechanism, but a being replete with soul. A thrilling volume of sound filled the room, now rising, now falling, now sinking into almost inaudible and plaintive woe; and again a wail of passionate energy, striking the air, burst into a moment of triumph, then sobbed itself into a cadence of unutterable sadness. Afterwards, it melted into silence, and, turning, he saw me. The charm was broken.
               "It is very, very beautiful!" I murmured.
               "Yes," replied he, "but sad; the epitome of all sorrow."
               "And do not you love sad music?"
               "Not always. I am changeable, very changeable."
               He spoke these words in a tone of weariness, as if for him life possessed few pleasures and fewer joys.
               I don't think I clearly understood him then; he was in some uncertain mood, some bitterness of spirit, so I made no response.
               "And do you love music?" finally asked he.
               "Passionately, earnestly; above all other kinds, sacred music. The grand, exultant strains, the joyous, the tender, awake in me strivings after a better, a purer life. I feel my unworthiness, my lowliness, feel myself but an atom in the universe, and yet these strains kindle throbbings in my nature that almost stifle me."
               As I spoke, my companion's face seemed suddenly to glow with enthusiasm; his dark eyes became brilliant, his hands moved nervously. At last Captain Mildmay seemed roused from calm and languor.
               "And so do I worship music; 'tis a glorious mistress! In Rome, Miss Vairin, I once heard the Miserere. Think of listening to that! I thought I should shout out in agony as the chant sobbed down the church-aisles and floated to the dome, bearing with it every heart in that mighty building. It is sublime! It is wonderful!"
               "Your music, too, is wonderful," I said. "It shows me the emptiness, the selfishness, of my life; it brings me to other days,—their lights, their shades. It whispers of the future which I may ennoble; but it reveals the present with myself bound to earth, vainly beating my wings against the prison-bars. I can only reach at, but can never grasp, my star of fortune; for, alas! I am fettered below."
               
               "Yours is but the old story," replied he. "Teach your nature, my young friend, to look not beyond its present acquisitions; like the mass, you will strive only to meet disappointment."
               "Never, Captain Mildmay! If I thought there were to be no fairer destiny for me, the knowledge would kill me. I must, nay, I shall, be other than I am now!"
               Again that transient glow, that flush, overspread his features. He spoke in tones of rare interest. I never dreamed he could be thus moved, so bent eagerly forward to catch the words that sprang from his lips.
               "Your enthusiasm, Miss Vairin, reminds me of an occurrence that took place after one of our engagements in the East. It was a hard and desperate fight. The foe outnumbered us by great odds, but we drove them back, step by step, until at last they were pressed to the very brink of a river. What a scene it was, to be sure!"
               Pausing there, the speaker tossed back the hair from his forehead with an imperious gesture, and struck the keys a terrible crash.
               "The dark-skinned legions pressed hard by our men, shouting, 'St. George for Merry England!' the officers galloping along the ranks, urging on the troops with wild cheers and shouts; bullets whizzing overhead; the tattoo of the drum beating a charge; by your side a comrade shot through the heart, falling to be trampled under foot; a riderless horse careering madly into the thickest of the fight. At last, we held them at bayonet's point upon the brink, and the victory was ours; but they were brave, and fought until killed or else pushed on into the river.
               "That night, when a red sunset had left the mountains, and the moon came trailing forth, the battle-field presented a fearful sight.
               "One poor fellow faltered, and death was in his eyes then. 'Tell her——' But that was all. I laid him down upon the bloody ground, white, dead, and——If women knew how some men bear their images enshrined heart-deep, even to the last, they would be less cruel."
               He paused there, and broke into a loud, harsh laugh.
               I glanced up, surprised at his untimely mirth. As if penetrating my thought, he asked, with some impatience,—
               "Do you think me a brute? Well, perhaps I am, and you're right!"
               He continued, however:
               "I was about to tell you, Miss Vairin, the cause of a certain enthusiasm awakened in my nature. It was all about a young fellow, a boon companion of mine, by the by, in the ranks,—Chester of Ours."
               What had he said! I bounded from my chair as if shot.
               "Do you mean Bertie,—Bertie Chester?"
               "Herbert, but familiarly 'Bertie'; and as gallant a young dog as ever stood in shoe-leather. Is it possible you know my friend?"
               I nodded my head: merely that. He gave me an odd enough look, to be sure.
               "Well, as I was saying, he fought nobly that evening. I could see him, with that grand head and form, so like a model of Antinous, pressing hard upon the foe. We of the Royal Rifles backed one another manfully, and several times in the run of battle young Chester and myself were side by side. Never before had I witnessed such gallantry, such bravery. His features were radiant, his breath came hot and heavy; his hand never raised a rifle without marking and bringing down its man.
               "Then I missed him; with anxious eye, after all was over, I searched the field. Some one told me he was last seen on the river-bank in hand-to-hand fight with a desperado, and that both, in the closing struggle, had dropped into the stream."
               My heart and voice were dumb for an instant. But I got up, went close to Captain Mildmay, and, seizing him by the arm, said, with quavering tongue,—
               "Is he dead? It cannot, cannot be!"
               I could scarcely speak, and the horror of what his answer might be made me feel faint and giddy. My face must have appeared ghastly, for every vestige of strength had deserted me, and the blood seemed receding from my heart. The gentleman did not answer; possibly surprise rendered him speechless, for he stood gazing upon me as if bewildered.
               "Speak, sir! Tell me,—anything but this horrible suspense!"
               
               "N-no," stammered he; "the young man's safe upon his legs. But, my dear young lady, allow me to place you in this chair. You are not well; you suffer. What is it?"
               "No, no, sir." And I waved him off. "First tell me of—of him—of my brother Bertie!"
               "Miss Vairin!"
               "Yes, Captain Mildmay," I said, boldly facing him. "Bertie Chester is my brother!"
               "And it is you, then,—you, who have cast him off!"
               "Never, sir!"
               Dropping into a seat and covering my eyes with my hands, I resisted the tears that sprang to my lids.
               My companion paced the room with dismay pictured upon his face.
               "I know the sad story," he said. "It is terrible!"
               "Let no man dare, sir, asperse the pure fame of one whose honor is beyond reproach," I exclaimed, angrily; "say not a word against him whose innocence shall yet be proven, in spite of everything!"
               He came up to me and seized my hands in a tight grasp. "Listen: Bertie Chester has no warmer friend on earth than myself! Will you believe it? He has told me of his implacable father, but the lad hopes to overcome in time the rigor of his condemnation. You are a brave little girl, and will do all in your power for the furtherance of your brother's wishes."
               "And you, Captain Mildmay,—are you indeed a friend to him?" A strong and deepening gratitude welled up in my soul on the instant. There was a joyous ring in my voice, and I walked the floor in excited attitude.
               "Egad, I am indeed," said he.
               Then he told me much of their barrack-life, answered patiently my numberless questions, and again and again went over scenes that peculiarly interested me.
               "You know that papa is much altered," I said; "you will understand why he has dropped the latter portion of his name; you—you will keep our secret?"
               "That I will, my young friend! 'Silent as the grave' shall be my motto."
               We returned to the other apartment shortly. My hostess chattered away in her pretty, bird-like voice, but I doubt whether either the captain or myself gave heed to the good lady's volubility.
               What a fever of unrest he had plunged me in! I was longing to be safe in my own room, where I could lock the door and think at will over the strange disclosure of the afternoon.
               Ah me! It was with a sensation of positive relief, when Joel called for me, that I took leave of my kind friends and sped on to the abbey, cantering briskly.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "We give our destiny from our own hands,
                        And trust to those most frail of all frail things,
                        The chances of humanity."
                     
                  
               
               IT is a wet, dismal night.
               The day, too, has been cheerless. Pale November, with its chill wind and sere leaf, has almost departed.
               How it makes me shiver!
               The prospect for my future is almost as dismal and cheerless. I wonder where my place is in the great, moving world! Surely not here.
               Sometimes I think this pause in life will drive me mad. If something, anything, would happen to stir the silence into noise!
               I just believe I'll get up and bang my door! But then papa is asleep, and the clock strikes for bedtime. Another freak of temper; I shall never, never be able to conquer it.
               Mr. Brent said once that the struggling of one's nature to subdue evil passions would bring with it a calm and quiet happiness. I'm quite sure, though, it brings me misery. Why must people be burdened with temper? Ah, no, I shall never, never be good!
               
               For a week my journal has been unopened.
               Scanning the lines above, I find myself lamenting the monotony of the days, the gloom of the nights. Reading on further, I pause at the last, in sympathy with that cry, "I shall never be good!"
               Well, it is not a pleasant life when one is young, reveling in a very tissue of dreams; when hair is soft, silken, and waving free to the breeze; when lips are coral-red; when feet are longing to tread gay measures, and heartbeats to throb with joy between the pauses of music. Yes, it is a harsh, unkind life.
               Surely the world cannot be so deep with pitfalls as papa says. It sparkles in visions before my eyes often and often; it must be beautiful.
               After all, though, this has not been altogether an unpleasant day. Walter Brent came over from Thorndale, and persuaded me out for a gallop; so, with a groom at our horses' heels, we started forth in gay humor.
               "I'd have ridden Geoffrey's Raven," said he, "only for that plaguy Martin Cross,—cross Martin, rather, I call him. He insists that the nag is lame."
               With a brisk canter now and then, and a few idle words, our ride stretched into some miles.
               "Cross Martin," pursued Walter, "has some notions of duty almost as rigid as Geoffrey's."
               "Indeed," laughed I, "your brother might well spare a few of his notions and ideas to his serving-man. Why, he's built up of solemn material sufficient to manufacture a score of other men."
               "It's singular you and Geoffrey should dislike each other so terribly! Why don't you like him just a little? I wish you'd try, Miss Hope! He's a grand fellow when you know him; though I do tease and rate him at times, still, I say there's not a man to equal him. He saved my life once at the risk of his own. I was quite a little fellow at the time, but I remember it distinctly. Do try, Miss Hope, and like him a little!"
               I said nothing, but, turning my head away, glanced over at a stile, and at a figure leaning against it.
               "Who is it?" asked Walter, hurriedly.
               I shook my head. His brow darkened, and, catching my rein, he drew Lady Fashion aside, exclaiming, "Let's turn back now, and have a race over the moor."
               Just then the figure straightened itself up, waved a hat in air, and proceeded to walk down the road so as to intercept us.
               "It's that prig of a captain," my companion explained; then, muttering under his breath, "Lazy, indolent slouch!" he wheeled his horse around, facing the advancing figure.
               "What's the poor man's offense, pray?" inquired I.
               "Nothing," he said, contemptuously, but at the same time bestowing upon me so keen, so strange a gaze, I felt the blood crimsoning cheek and brow. Captain Mildmay strolled on. "He takes his own time," Walter cried, sneeringly.
               When the gentleman finally reached us, a conversation was struck up that lasted perhaps for half an hour; and my young friend, quite recovering from his fit of spleen, became the merriest of the trio.
               And what did we find to talk about? Mere nothings, airy as thistle-down; light repartee, with here and there a smile and gush of laughter. The pleasantest converse, oftentimes, is that in which we do not exert wit or talent, in which, simply gliding along the stream of thought, we are content to pluck from the shore here a rose, there a lily-bud; in which we tacitly ignore the flaunting tulip or tall passion-flower, and merely drift along, sometimes catching a gleam of our faces from below, with the blue sky for a background, but never ruffling the surface with thought of the stormy heart beneath, or the stormy cloud beyond the blue.
               When we turned our horses' heads homeward, Walter expressed himself enraptured with the captain. "He's delightful when he will talk; but when he's in one of those lazy moods of his, I could kick him for a regular puppy."
               "By the by," added he, "I've a letter from the folks. They're in glorious luck; have fallen in with the Buddingtons of Buddington Court, and are seeing no end of pleasure."
               "And who are the Buddingtons of Buddington Court, pray?"
               "Oh, cousins of ours that I don't care a fig for! They've lived abroad for some years, but are now expecting to settle down at home again; in fact, Lucy writes we may expect a visit from them when the New Year sets in. She does cut up such bobberies about them, too: how Geoffrey admires one of the girls; how Nell and Guy admire each other, and how—But I talk at random! You've no interest in these people!"
               "Of course not."
               None in the least; but I felt I should hate them if we ever met, these Buddingtons of Buddington Court; proud, overbearing people, I'll warrant!
               I was truly glad to get home: my head ached sadly. After dinner I repaired to the drawing-room, and sat down before the fire to think.
               The evening had closed in dark and gloomy. There was the fitful dash of the sea, and the flapping of a window-blind near me. I think I must have been asleep, for suddenly there came a confused sound of opening and closing doors, and, upon rubbing my eyes and starting up, Captain Mildmay stood before me.
               "Have I caught you napping?" he laughed. "Rouse yourself, Miss Vairin, for I'm just in a vein to talk and be talked to. I hope I've braved the gloomy weather to good advantage."
               Janet brought lights, and he drew a chair before the hearth, where the fire-shine fell full upon his handsome, swarthy face.
               I was glad to see him, for there were words of cheer and comfort he could bring me,—tidings as from one who was dead. We talked on and on, and before I knew it a strange, unwonted sympathy began to creep into my heart for this man to whom I felt myself bound by a tie of gratitude everlasting. He interested me, too, in his own behalf; I couldn't help wondering at that listless, half-cynical atmosphere which seemed perpetually to cloud him as in a mist; nor did I quite understand the humor which prompted him to the sketching for me of a portion of his life. How it came about is impossible to narrate; but, standing upon the hearth-rug, with feet indolently crossed and hand toying with a watch-chain, he quite astonished me by speaking of himself, and as follows:
               "You asked once, Miss Vairin, if my youth had been wisely spent. Judge whether it were or not. From mere infancy I have been taught a bad, false creed. It was to believe my life simply that of a gentleman. For my hands work had not been created; for my heart sorrow could ne'er be born. Like a fool, I sipped this insidious knowledge deep into my being, and grew up at a fond mother's knee with soft hands and softer head, spoiled by her love and adulation.
               "Like many another unfortunate lad, I was supposed to be born with a silver spoon in my mouth; not exactly, either. It was an indisputable fact that the spoon was there; that it was only of pewter as yet, but that some day it would be transformed into bright gold; in other words, I possessed 'great expectations' in the person of an old bachelor uncle who had named me his heir. He was very wealthy; also very healthy; but some day it was supposed that he would behave as do other mortals,—die! In case of such an event I was to take possession of his wealth and his title; own a mint of my own if I chose, so rich was he. So under this prodigality of Fortune I grew into manhood,—idle, listless, indifferent; selfish, languid, indolent. I went freely into society; what else could I have done? Dowager mammas were quite enraptured with my position. 'Great expectations' was branded on my forehead; it pioneered my way through every difficulty. We idled away one summer at Scarborough, I remember. There was the usual crowd of mothers and daughters; the usual crowd of fortune-hunters and pleasure-seekers. The season had never been gayer; so, of course, the every-day thing happened.
               "I had fallen in love fifty times or more during a lifetime, and had sighed and ogled through many an engagement, always managing to escape, though, before the yoke of matrimony fettered my neck. So, when on a summer's day, sitting on the Scarborough pier, with a bright, girlish face looking into mine, I made my fifty-first love-confession, it was no marvel that I should have maundered on in the telling, with the same old words, the same old sentiments. The usual thing was the result,—we became engaged. She, because she was in love with my expectations tations; I—well, I was bored to death, and didn't know what else under the sun to turn to. For one year we dawdled along comfortably enough.
               "Then my bachelor uncle, being healthy as well as wealthy, gets married, and looks forward to a green old age!
               "For another year I lounged around town, still in hopes that I wasn't defrauded of my rights as heir; then came the upshot of the matter: a son was born unto that wealth, and my plans dashed forever. What was I to do? For several weeks I did nothing but loll; and then comes a note from my 'ladye faire' dismissing me. But I didn't blame her; that which she loved was gone from me. Why should she cling to a broken spar? If I'd been the right sort of man, I'd have gone to work with a stout will; but I wasn't: loved my ease much too well. Then I joined a corps departing for India, and have been lounging out there ever since. Now, I've half a mind to sell out; but where would be the sense? Bess bothers me to dispose of my commission and invest in something more profitable; but I love the life, and I see how different I am from other men; how I am never to look forward to a hearth-stone of my own, where wife and children are thronged; how I am to remain always in the dark outside world, never striving for a noble life; how I am to live my little hour, and lounge into the grave to be forgotten. You see, Miss Vairin, I'm a queer chap."
               I felt so sorry for him then, and said,—
               "You underrate yourself terribly, Captain Mildmay! Why, you are young, real young, and, with all the world yet before you, I don't see that your life should be different from that of other men."
               He smiled, but gravely. "My time has come and gone. I've made my life, and must worry it out as it is; it's too late now to redeem one error of the past. You pity me, perhaps. I do not need it. I do not ask that; but I do ask for your friendship. Will you not be kind?"
               He had come over to where I sat, and his face overshadowed mine with its dark, manly beauty.
               There seemed to have arisen a strong sympathy of soul that should bind us together; and I liked him.
               What was it that touched me so when he said, "I do not know why I have spoken to you of my past; but I have had few friends, Miss Vairin; of those, one only proved steadfast. I feel to-night that if I had known you, with your true, brave heart, in my younger days, I might be a far better man now. Will you give me your trust? God knows I need it!"
               He bent nearer, his hand outstretched to mine. And I, in my desolation of spirit, looked up thankfully, and laid mine in his with faith.
               "My friend,—my friend indeed!"
               When I entered my room that night, it was dreary and sombre enough. The candle was unlighted; the fire burned low on the hearth.
               The curtains were not lowered; and the moon with pale visage looked in on me from the clouds. Here and there a star blinked; but the sky seemed tempest-torn and tossed,—as if foreboding future sorrow.
               I have griefs of my own that rise, at times, to taunt me with their presence; but they give place now, while I write, to that vision of Captain Mildmay, who stands before me pleading for such friendship as I have to give.
               Is my poverty of heart so deep that I cannot spare the beggar a morsel?
               But is it right that he should turn his back upon life's rare promises? He is young, handsome, with an income, doubtless; why should he have his fling at Fate, at Fortune, at Happiness?
               I do not comprehend him, and have come to the belief that he is a problem awaiting solution.
               Dear journal, are not we all compounded of mystery? What heart has dared unfathom the inner core of mine? What eye has read the secret of my blush? What ear has interpreted the anguish of my sigh?
               Alas for me! no heart, no ear, no eye.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               MISS BRENT WRITES.
               WE were home again.
               I had fallen into one of my dreamy moods. The lamps were still unlighted, and that atmosphere of half light, half darkness, was too pleasant to be destroyed. We had been home just one week. My sister sat upon the hearth-rug, reading a love-tale by the fire-light. Our elder brother stood beside her,—one hand resting upon the mantel, the other running through light masses of hair over his brow.
               We were waiting dinner for Walter, who, of late, was grown strangely negligent in his observance of punctuality at our evening meal. Sitting thus in the twilight darkness of the room, I went to dreaming, as I always do at such times. But my fancies were not pleasant; and so at last I came back from my musings to wonder why our boy was so tardy, and to find the night strangely dull and quiet without him.
               "What are you reading, Nell?" said I.
               She laid down the book with a laugh, drawing a curl or two through her fingers.
               "Such stuff, Lucy, you know; such queer sort of love, and misunderstandings perfectly ridiculous, you know; I'm disgusted!"
               "But, child," I argued, "what would love be without its usual amount of misunderstandings, pray?"
               "Come, now," returned she, saucily leaning forward, with a bright face all glowing in merriment,—"come, now, Lucy, if you were writing a novel, and your hero loved a beautiful woman, and a dear friend of his loved her also, how would you make the story end, do you think?"
               I shook my head. "Can't conjecture, Nell, for the life of me; indeed, I couldn't stretch my imagination to the extent of viewing myself as a novelist."
               "Well, then, Geoffrey shall tell! Won't you, brother? Come, now, how would you dispose of these ridiculous people?"
               "Does the 'beautiful woman' love the hero, or does she fancy the 'friend'?" was his responsive query.
               "Oh, the hero, of course. Everybody goes wild over him, the horrid man!"
               "Then she must marry the hero, and the friend might go his way."
               His voice was low, and strangely sober in tone. Nell loudly exclaimed against this. "Why, I'm sure, Geoffrey, you'd have it nothing of the sort; you'd make the hero steal away quietly, you know, so that the friend could win the beautiful lady. She'd grieve for awhile,—of course she couldn't be miserable all her life: you wouldn't expect it of her, brother: now, would you?—then she'd marry the friend, and they'd live happy ever after!"
               The other's face changed wonderfully. Throwing back his head with an impatient gesture, and looking down upon the little one on the rug, he exclaimed, "Would it be easy, think you, for a man to give up the one great love of his lifetime? No, Nell, no! I think he would gather his chosen queen closer to him, and guard her jealously from another's gaze. I think, indeed I am quite sure, he would even let the friend die of his unspoken love, and straightway marry his own one."
               My brother's voice at the last was so low and so earnest that I looked up sharply for a peep into his face. It was bent down upon the mantel-shelf. Good gracious! there was nothing in an idle story that he need grow so excited and serious over. It really annoyed me; but Nell lightly laughed, and, in her merriment, teased and joked Geoffrey to commence forthwith his novel. Careless girl!
               The lamps were then brought, and Walter's bounding step and gay tones resounded through the hall; he entered flushed with his ride, and, throwing himself upon the rug, drew Nell's pretty mouth down for a kiss. What a picture they made! The red fire-shine lit up the boy's features and touched lightly his brown rings of hair.
               "Am I very late, Luce?" he asked. "Has Geoffrey been cutting up his usual bobberies about it? Why, old boy, what's to pay? You're as grum as a judge! Don't you scold now, old fellow,—not to-night, at least; nor you, Luce; nor Nell either, the bonnie bird!"
               The true, brave lad,—how could we ever dream of scolding him? It was his humor at times to pretend fear of our reproofs.
               God bless him!
               The room seemed now so bright and cheerful. It was a pretty, oak-paneled room, with crimson carpet upon the floor, and curtains of similar hue at the windows. I remember well how it all looked that night,—the night which, had I not been blind, would have seemed our last of entire home-happiness. The table fairly glittered: odd patterns in china, urns and bowls of antique silver, gleamed upon it; in the centre stood my usual nosegay of winter roses. I liked to look upon the flowers and green leaves from my place at the head of the board; they bestow an air of grace and beauty upon meal-time, I think; so, as we gathered around, I gazed about me with a feeling of quiet pleasure.
               Walter's bright countenance seemed really handsome: his cheeks were all aglow, and his eyes as deep as bluebells. He said, presently, "Guess where I've been, Luce, and who I've seen?"
               "At the abbey," promptly responded Nell, "to see Hope Vairin."
               He turned from her at this, and helped himself generously to a share of game-pie. "Yes," said he, finally, but rather hastily; "yes."
               Contrasted with the merry tones preceding, his voice in reply seemed almost constrained. Perhaps it was because he spoke with a mouth in the act of swallowing a morsel of bird; or perhaps it was only my fancy that detected any change. However, he continued:
               "Yes, I've been to the abbey; and Miss Hope sends a greeting upon your safe return. Is that the style of wording it, Luce? Bother it all, I can't do your fine phrases! Well, to sum the matter up, you've all an invitation to dine there Christmas-day! Isn't that a streak of luck? Don't look so solemn, Geoffrey, old fellow; you ought to be glad of the chance. At any rate, the young lady bid me say you may expect a visit from herself and father tomorrow evening. Now, good folks, do be reasonable and accept all favors!"
               I looked at our elder brother; his eyes were fastened upon Walter's burning face with a strange, uncertain gaze.
               Nell was wild. "Let's go! ah, do let's go!" she pleaded. "It's such a queer place, you know, with the funny rooms and horrid garden; and I do so like to frighten myself with thinking of the ghosts that might come, or any other shocking thing."
               "Will you go, Lucy?" asked Geoffrey.
               We had never spent the day away from home in our lives. To my mind there is something so endearing in having together during this holy season all whom one loves, that Christmas seems no Christmas if I think of it apart from home or home ties.
               Yet Nell was so eager. Walter's anxious face told its own story, and Geoffrey, my oracle, was regarding me with an expression I had never noticed upon his countenance before.
               What it was I could not exactly tell; but it seemed to call up the remembrance of his passionate outbreak a short while ago, and seemed to impress me with an idea that he, too,—our staid, prosy, elder brother!—would be glad to spend the coming festival at the abbey. So, after a few moments of quiet thinking, I said, "Yes, we will go, if you please."
               Christmas was only a few days off. Since our return, I had been busied with extra household duties, also in collecting gifts for my sister and brothers, and some few trifles for the village children. Then there were other things to do: there were the holly and mistletoe to be gathered betimes, that we might follow our old-time custom of wreathing and adorning the rooms; Robin, the gardener, was already awaiting orders. So that night I lay awake a long time, planning what should be done and what left undone.
               The morning following dawned bright and clear. Early in the afternoon Nell and I went out for a walk. A keen wintry blast whistled by; the sun shone cheerily, though; there was no look of desolation upon the country around, as I've seen resting upon it on some raw days. A grand view was presented from the surrounding hills: below, lay the sea; we could hear the breakers only when fierce storms were abroad, but we could note the far-off waste of water, and sometimes catch a gleam of distant sails passing and re-passing. Then, the tall cliffs and crags projecting from the coast, the white flash of the waves breaking upon their jagged edges, and here and there a speck of creamy beach, where all day and night the waters tossed wildly about. While I was dwelling upon this theme of scenery, we were racing on the moor in the sharp breath of old Boreas. I like these keen winds! Their icy fingers touch me none too brusquely; I delight to feel their tingling across brow and cheek. Dear winter winds!
               On the way homeward we walked briskly along; as we turned into the avenue and were entering the gate, I noticed that the short winter day was already beginning to pale; and, only then remembering our expected visitors, I besought Nell to hasten her steps, for tumbled curls and disordered dress should not meet the eye of strangers. So, quickly we went on up the walk, and into the hall. Daylight had wellnigh faded. I couldn't help but stay my steps a moment, though, to watch the evening star, that like a jewel had flashed out into the dull gray sky.
               For all the years of my life had I thus welcomed its coming; and when it burned fair and so far away, and I stood below on the earth, heaven and the angels seemed brighter and nearer! Always I walked forth on my path of duty from this quiet up-gazing, a better and calmer woman. God knows and hearkens! We all do bear our burdens.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               MISS BRENT WRITES.
               THE drawing-room fire burned ruddily in the grate. The old-fashioned damask furniture had cast aside its faded look; the heavy crimson hangings shut out the bleakness of the outside world. Dinner being dispatched, we had repaired to that apartment, where Geoffrey was wellnigh inveigling me into a game of chess with him, when the sound of wheels came from down the avenue. Walter hurriedly entered the hall.
               What a vision was it I saw, when, after an opening and closing of doors, Hope Vairin crossed that threshold with soft cheeks all a-bloom, and eyes fit to dim the stars hanging aloft!
               Greeting Nell with a kiss, she advanced towards me with a smile, and bands outstretched.
               What had come over us all, truly!
               For how white had grown Geoffrey's face, and how he strove to hide the quivering of his lips! Then he assumed a stern, sudden control over himself, and, bending forward, regarded Walter with that new, strange gaze I had once before marked.
               Alas! alas! in bewilderment I stared at the group for a single moment; then the truth pressed in upon me with cruel sharpness.
               The words of welcome passed on to the others. When that little white hand extended to Geoffrey, it was with a motion of graceful courtesy; that was all; those fingers rested in his with easy freedom, and the soft dark eyes upturned to his face with their old flash of sauciness. And then with a vivid knowledge that the first place in my brother's heart was mine no longer came also the conviction that he held to his bosom only a lifeless dream,—a love for which there was no return,—a passion that would spend the wealth of his soul in vain barter.
               
               Alas! His was the saddest fate that can befall man or woman.
               Walter soon was gay and unembarrassed in manner; quick-feeling and impulsive he was, but I do not think his impressions bore strong foundation. His disposition was as the flowering rose-bush that is full of bloom and beauty; when the winter's breath touches the leaves, they fall from stalk and stem, lying buried beneath an icy shroud. Then steals along the soft air of spring, and, lo! the bush is hung anew with buds and blossom. I think Walter was of those whose natures can renew the sentiment of affection as often as the bush its leaf. Geoffrey,—ah! no one understood our elder brother so well as I, who thought any woman might be proud to lay her hand in his. Possibly, sisters are apt to forget that other eyes look not through a mist of love into the hearts of these stalwart brothers.
               At the time I don't think we quite understood Hope Vairin. Her character possessed rare depth; I can only compare it to a meadow-landscape upon a morn in April. Over green knolls and vales the light is softly streaming; and while you gaze enraptured on the loveliness of scenery, there glides across the sun a cloud that is yet beautiful. Soon the landscape is clothed in shadows, whose darkness brings a tear to the eye and a sob to the heart.
               So was it with her; in the midst of mirth and gayety, when no laugh was richer in tone, there would steal into her face a shadow gray and gaunt, as if, like the king of old, she were reading a sign upon the wall, and knew her doom.
               Her eyes were very beautiful; not startlingly so, with sparkle or brilliancy; they rather glowed with steady, honest rays, like those of a fixed star. Their depths, too, were fathomless; you felt, as you gazed into their soft, veiled darkness, there were still worlds of trust far back, concealed from a careless glance. Fair little Hope!
               During the brief period of that visit there seemed to hover a restraint over us, though I tried my utmost to shake it off; but presently Walter and Hope were laughing gleefully.
               "What is it," inquired I, "that amuses you two? I should enjoy a hearty laugh myself."
               "We were speaking of you, Luce," Walter replied, with vehemence.
               "And what of me, pray?"
               "Why, some recent adventures of yours. Don't you remember Nell telling it on you?—the antiquated, fossilized old gentleman that hovered around you so assiduously over yonder on the continent."
               "Did he expect you to reciprocate his affection?" smiled Hope.
               "I'll tell you how the matter stood," interrupted Walter. "These terrible housekeeping dames like Luce always have a favorite hobby to ride, and we know well enough what hers is."
               "What is it?" I asked.
               "Do you believe in a first love, Luce?"
               "Yes, and a last one too," I said, laughing.
               "Well, then, a first love's your hobby, my dear. Come, now, confess, isn't it? Give in, now; wasn't that the reason you condemned the poor old fellow to his musty books again?"
               I looked a trifle grave at this, and kept silence.
               "Ah! I knew," he continued; "I knew what your hobby was; but, Luce, I'll stable up the obnoxious steed quickly, for fear you should suddenly mount, and on your winged Pegasus soar away to the clouds. Do you know, Miss Hope (mind, I'm telling it as a great secret), Lucy actually grows poetical at times, and is always working up characters and events into romance? Now, for instance—"
               "Do cease, you roguish boy!" cried I, starting up and pulling his ear soundly.
               They all laughed at this, but a fear rose in my heart that possibly Walter had stumbled across an unfinished manuscript of mine, the writing of which had stolen many hours from sleep.
               Some future day, I thought, I may venture it out on the broad ocean, and, like the many watching upon the shore, may come to take my place among the downhearted whose frail crafts drift back to them,—wrecks, with sea-weed clinging to the hulks, destitute of the pennons nons and streamers fluttering in the breeze when gayly forth they had sailed, destitute of that cargo of treasured hopes and joys, floating on the tide a mass of desolation and ruin.
               Oh, for those who watch, the weariness of day and night! I was determined there should be a cessation of jokes at my expense, so pleaded for some music, proposing that Hope should sing.
               "What shall it be?" was asked, while her fingers ran a light and murmuring prelude over the keys.
               I, who sat rather in the shadow, and could look upon the others without being myself seen, was moved to the heart when that sweet young voice rose full upon us. Another and another song they called for, and then Walter threw his rich tenor into the melody.
               How these old, old ballads start the tears! It was the lament of a fisher-maiden, whose lover was wrecked within sight of land. She stood by, seeing him sink from her gaze,—a victim to the cruelty of old Ocean.
               While they sang, I could see it all before me: the inky waters, the ship, the forms tossed like weeds hither and thither, and the white, stony figure of the girl upon shore.
               A silence dull and heavy had fallen upon that group by the fireside; even Nell wore a serious air that rested oddly upon her. Geoffrey gazed into the red coals with that new look of abstraction his eyes were beginning to adopt. I turned to Mr. Vairin, and made some stumbling remark concerning the weather.
               What was the matter with us all, truly? The subject of dinner at the abbey was broached; our promise of acceptance given; yet still, till they left us, a constraint hung upon the tongues that were wont to move so glibly.
               When the last farewell was given, I closed the hall-door with a sensation of relief, and came back to the drawing-room to warm my numb fingers.
               "I'm half sorry they came," pouted Nell, tossing her curls; "we were real queer, weren't we?"
               "Go to bed, child," said I, "go to bed; I'll be up presently." She wished me good-night then, and got out of the way rather speedily for her.
               Walter had accompanied the Vairins out to their phaeton. As it drove away, I detected his footsteps crunching the gravel beneath the window, and could guess why he preferred the cool of starlight to the heated atmosphere of the room. For a time the sound of his measured tread came from the garden.
               Pace, pace, pace! Tramp, tramp, tramp! Then it ceased, and I heard him slowly (and somewhat gravely) mount the staircase to his own apartment.
               Geoffrey was leaning against the chimney-piece, his face almost hidden by an uplifted arm.
               He spoke, when the others were safely disposed of, in a tone half of sadness, half of bitterness, and without changing his posture:—
               "Do you see there, deep in the embers, that little spark of fire? It's quite covered with blackened cinders: isn't it?
               "How like to Life! When we think all joy is dead, some change may show us a brightness the glory of which we before scarcely dreamed. Yet, Lucy, don't you think there are sorrows in this world that admit of no cheer,—that bear one down even to the grave?"
               "No!" and I said this very earnestly; "no, there is light to come after the darkest night. We must grope for it awhile, and then its rays quite overpower us. Why do you look and speak thus, Geoffrey? It's unlike you!"
               He went on, without wavering or turning:
               "How many hearts are there, like that coal of fire, covered up and out of sight, but who (as this coal needs only a touch to shake off its ashes) need only a word, a glance, or a smile to disclose the sparkle that would warm both giver and receiver!"
               There was silence for awhile; then, still without moving, he startled me by asking,—
               "Did you know of this before?"
               "Of this——Of what?"
               "Are you blind, Lucy? Don't you see they love each other?"
               "They! Do you mean Walter and Miss Vairin?"
               "I do."
               "Why do you ask me this? Why do you join their names?"
               
               "Is it not natural, Lucy? But did you dream he—loved—her—so?"
               I shook my head.
               "I'm afraid, Geoffrey, you're wrong. It is merely a boyish fancy on Walter's side; and Hope does not love him."
               He turned, then, and looked me in the face almost fiercely; but when words came his voice was full of huskiness.
               "She does not love him! How do you know this?"
               "Do you not know it?"
               He did not receive this unmoved; a flash leaped from his eye, and he paused a moment in that restless walk upon the hearth-rug.
               "No, a thousand times no! Can you not see? It is you, Lucy, who are wrong; before Heaven, I think she loves the boy!"
               What could I say? In all my experience of him, my brother had never thrown off his self-command thus; it startled me now to see and hear him. He went on:
               "You are a woman; and women, they say, are clear-sighted in these matters. Why, then, did you not rouse me from this delusion? Why did you not wrench me thus from the stupor?"
               And, pausing, he shook my arm with his hand strong as iron.
               I could not help but wince, and shrink from him as he stood before me with eyes full of passion, and face startlingly pale.
               "Is it nothing to have struggled with one's nature for long months? Is it nothing to have poured out one's very soul at the feet of a girl who scornfully disdains it? Is it nothing to have chafed and raged like a caged beast in vain grasping at freedom?
               "The struggle was bitter and sharp, and you moved not a finger to aid me. Ah, yes! You women are clear-sighted,—very!"
               I lifted my voice passionately then, but he waved the words into silence, and, with an angry gesture, continued,—
               "Don't reason with me—don't—don't! I'm not calm enough for that; it comes too late. Good God, I know not what madness is this, compelling me to speak! Yet to one who has kept his own counsel hitherto, 'tis the crown of bitterness indeed."
               We had come to hard things, Geoffrey and I; and I was so sorry for him; you may believe me if ever you have seen a proud man's desolation.
               The winds came howling through the night as if prophetic of future storms.
               After a time, two hands laid themselves upon my shoulders, and a pair of eyes looked down on me through such misery as I scarcely expect to see again on the face of humankind.
               "I'm hardly myself to-night, Lucy, I think; but forgive me for grieving you so; you perceive my selfishness in the matter. Forget those wild words; try to think of them as unspoken, sister,—for—her sake, and all will be well. I've a plan, too, that'll help to redeem myself in my own sight, perhaps."
               "And what is that?" I asked.
               "Why, what but the payment of that long-talked-of visit to our Scottish kinsman? And then——"
               "And then,—surely you'll come home?"
               He laughed bitterly.
               "What! You don't expect a man to get over a thing of this kind in two months' time, do you,—like my lady fair, sick of a fever, who needs must go to the mountains to recruit? No, Lucy, my fever strikes deeper than the skin; but I will cure myself speedily. There's but the one way,—and that, to put miles of sea and country between us for a year or two. I feel it must be so,—the one step which must be resolved on. After I'm gone they may take their happiness; but, by Heaven, not before!"
               I started in terrible fear. "What do you mean? Gone! Gone for years! What folly is this?"
               "Ay, call it folly!—idle, shameless folly! Lash me sharply if you will! Does a man deserve better fate who, having once fallen upon thorns and been stung, walks coolly into the nettles a second time?"
               "But—but——" I stammered, "is there need for you to do this? Who knows but if Hope were aware——"
               
               On the instant he hushed my words.
               "Stop! I will conquer myself, but must first undergo sharp discipline, remember; let me begin in this way."
               I would not be convinced, though, and, standing there before him, begged hard and pleaded him to banish the mad thought. It seemed that if he left me my heart would lag and faint, and surely break, through the woe of living.
               It was now his turn to soothe and pity; his voice fell to a deep tenderness that awed me strangely into repose.
               "It has been a fierce and bitter struggle with me, Lucy; but, now that I've conquered, you'll not make me weak again; you'll not make my going harder than it already is. Do you remember, just before our mother left us, the dark day when Walter was brought in from the pond a wet, dripping mass, his face white and cold as stone, his brown curls clogged with mud? You remember our mother's anguish, and her wild joy when he was restored to life? You remember how she loved our brother? That day when my arm drew him from death, a thought came to me that, for her sake, so long as I lived, Walter should bear a charmed life; that any risk in the path of truth and honor would I take to shield him from sorrow!
               "Now, Lucy, think if the lad were to discover this, were to find out my miserable story; would he not shrink from me—his brother? No, no; my plan is the right and the best. I tell you, sister, rather than see him lose one jot of his affection for me, I'd sacrifice my right arm; so after a little, when I return, we'll go on in the same old way,—you and I all in all to each other."
               His voice had dropped again from its firm, proud strength to a tone of anguish.
               Geoffrey! my noble Geoffrey! he was always tender with me; had it not been for his dear affection my heart would have broken in youth. How could I bear to part with him? I could not, would not, and, weeping passionately, clung to him; but he smoothed my hair with his hand, and stopped with the other those words clamoring for utterance.
               "Hush, Lucy dear; be calm. It must be done; now is the hour to keep my trust and resolve."
               Tearless enough then, I let him talk on.
               "Walter's management of Thorndale proves him capable of attaining future prosperity; he'll take charge of the estate during my absence. And a warning, Lucy! don't mention this conversation to any one as yet. Let it be my secret, and yours."
               Words are not given me to tell of the time we two remained there, building and shattering castles, "full of hope, and yet of heart-break," gazing afar into that future whose workings were not to be as we planned them.
               When at last he left me, I could only crouch in the firelight with face bowed low, a tide of bitterness surging in my breast.
               Why should our best-loved be chosen the bearer of burden so dire? What had he done—that loyal, honest man—that every hope should be blighted as blossoms by a hoar-frost? Why should his face—to me the strongest, the tenderest in the world—be touched by lines of thought and care?
               There were men,—dastardly wretches, cumbering earth with noisome presence,—they, the base, the worldly, fix gloating eyes upon the fairest of her sex,—ay, and marry her too,—while the good and true are cast aside with the desolation of an empty heart.
               Oh, it was not just! it was not right! I cried aloud in my grief and despair; but, tears and moans, of what avail are you to pour a balm upon the spirit wounded and broken?
               A dawn of light in the east was broadening; in the midst of the morning pallor there hung a golden star; it quivered and trembled with a great glow of light, and while the earth heaved under the flush of new-born day, darkness was fleeing swiftly back; the world grew faintly pink as with hope and light, and over the hills and far away came the voices of fair morning.
               The golden star twinkled still; and, taking it for a sign of the future, I crept softly up-stairs to my room.
               The Christmas tide came flowing in,—the tide of light and harmony, bearing upon its bosom a carol of "peace and good will to men." Christmas roses were in bloom: and with them, too, for happy households, Christmas joys, blossoming out a rapture in words of pious anthems.
               The service was very beautiful; and the church, with its garlands of holly, and crimson berries shining through the dark green, and the wreaths of mistletoe, somehow soothed me into rest.
               Hope was there, with a countenance very pale, but earnest. In the folded hands, the bowed head, the closed lips, there rested an unwonted humility,—an aspect quite dissimilar from the usual erect carriage and proud play of feature. I could not look calmly or steadily in her direction for a time; but the pathos in her sweet, grave manner quite unnerved me.
               "What! In anger with little Hope! She doesn't dream of the trouble she brings to us. It must not be."
               And, thus reasoning, I turned and listened to the rector, who was telling of all those wondrous things which had come to pass in the days of old.
               What shall be noted of that dinner at the abbey? It was like most other dinners, only that, outside, it began raining.
               Suffice it to say that our host presided with urbane courtesy: if ever Mr. Vairin had seemed gracious-mannered, he was surely so that day. His daughter, though, appeared quite the reverse: she sat in her place rather distrait; her eyes were restless. I noticed, too, that they followed her father untiringly, with a look that at times rested upon his face in speechless love, and again in doubt and sorrow.
               Poor child! she was to be pitied; for, of warm, impulsive nature, I could not but know that there were barriers between her heart and that of the cold, haughty man whom she called "papa."
               It had changed into a wild night. The sea was hoarse with roar and storm, the rain poured in torrents, and the wind was rising in heavy gusts. To reach Wildmoor would be impossible. And thus it happened that we were to be kept prisoners at the abbey; for who would have turned even a dog into the blackness of such a tempest?
               When the hour for retiring drew nigh, Hope was to show us our room. We mounted the staircase, and were ushered into a great corridor, looking as it might have looked when Stanley had been the home of cowled monks. Numerous vault-like doors opened herein, and the atmosphere fell about us so thick and heavy that involuntarily a shudder ran through me at the mere aspect.
               Nell clung to my arm in affright; even our guide seemed to have grown mute and cold. Suddenly there appeared in sight a narrow hall branching off from the main corridor. As the glare of the candle flashed athwart it, I imagined there gleamed a ray of light from under one of the doors.
               "Is this your papa's room, Hope?" I said to her. The glare from the light as suddenly shifted in a new direction.
               "Oh, no; we all sleep below. But, Miss Lucy, you need feel no alarm, as your brothers are to be directly opposite you. Nothing further than bad dreams can interrupt your slumbers; so, remember, you're to sleep soundly, just as if in your own cosy rooms at Wildmoor."
               Easier said than done, thought I, but nevertheless was glad when she paused at a door from beneath which flowed a stream of light.
               This sight was cheering, at all events.
               The apartment which we entered was large, gloomy, and stately. The bed was dark, with great posts attached, and was hung with draperies of heavy purple. It seemed so high and grand! I almost shuddered at that, too. The chairs, the wardrobe, the toilet-stand, all frowned out upon us as if resenting an intrusion upon a spot sacred to dust and loneliness.
               A fire roared and crackled upon the hearth; it was the only thing modern or life-like (excepting ourselves) within the chamber. Hope had departed, so there was nothing to do but prepare for rest. Geoffrey and Walter soon passed by, and then my heart sank a little,—barely a little, though.
               For awhile an opening and closing of doors, a barking of a house-dog in the hall below, and then all dropped into silence.
               Nell was soon sound asleep. Drawing a chair before the fire and ensconcing myself within it, I seemed for the moment transported to some strange, unnatural world; dreams and visions came trooping fast upon one another's heels.
               I gave myself wholly up to their influence, while tracing in the blaze before me pictures of another time that should dawn in radiance.
               And then, while sitting there blinking at the light, there rose a sound to my ear.
               I started up, listening. The rain was dripping quietly on the roof; its violence had been spent. At intervals the sea roared hoarsely. Naught beside was stirring. I sank in the chair, and, stooping forward, bathed my hands in the ruby fire-light.
               Then it came again: a sort of muffled tapping, as if some one from the balcony outside were beating against the glass of my window.
               I wasn't to be made a coward of, so, moving towards it, lifted the hangings, unfastened the latch, and looked out.
               For all that could be seen in the darkness, no one or no thing was visible. Stepping over the ledge, I groped about with hands outstretched; their touch fell upon something hard and bristling. At first I drew back in alarm, but afterwards, reproving myself for yielding to cowardice, walked boldly towards the dreaded object, and discovered—simply a stunted pine transplanted from its native earth to grow strong and stalwart in the narrow circumference of a garden-tub.
               While smiling at my own simplicity, I detected the cause of the sound that had so frightened me: one of the slats on the shutter was broken, and, as the blast surged by, it fell against the pane with a sort of mechanical drumbeat.
               Much relieved, I quickly proceeded to undress myself, so as to hasten into bed; but, on going to the toilet-stand to unclasp the brooch from my neck-ribbon, I happened to raise my eyes and glance into the mirror.
               The reflection caused me to start nervously.
               There was all the stiffened grandeur of the room, and there was my own face peering at me with so genuine a stare that I was glad to run away from it, and, crossing over to the hearth, to draw my chair closer to the fire.
               It was cold and bleak; but unconsciously my head drooped; sleep was overpowering me, and I possessed no strength to resist. When my lids closed, I awoke in dreamland. But the visions which then came were wild and fantastic. In vain was it to struggle with those uncanny air-forms, for by force of number they mastered and held me fast.
               Hours must have passed before, with a violent start, I was roused, surprised to discover myself dozing in a chair, and not lying comfortably in bed, where any sensible body would have been long since.
               My surroundings were dismal to an extreme. I shivered with fright, though certainly common sense might have suggested that my terror was needless.
               The candle was dying away; the fire; very low. To me, the room seemed alive with horror.
               Nell's soft breathing rose and fell at intervals.
               I slid from the chair, crouching upon the hearth, and determined to rouse her: it was horrible to be the only waking thing in that silence; but just as her name trembled on my lips there rose above the darkness a moan—human in tone and suffering; I am sure if my ear had not been strained to every echo, that faint sound could by no possible chance have reached it.
               At first I listened in an intensity of fear.
               It came again, lower, fainter yet. Then, but one thought sprang uppermost;—there was sorrow, anguish near me.
               Could it be Hope in grief,—fair little Hope, whom I had grown to love so well?
               God forbid! But, to my quickened sympathy, the sound appeared to linger around the door,—wailing through the crevices, and in at the keyhole, as if beguiling me forth.
               Again I waited expectantly, and again a moan of suffering struck full upon the air. Seizing my remnant of candle then, I unbolted the door, opened it, and stood within the very corridor which a moment before had appeared peopled with ghosts. Once more it reached me,—the almost inaudible tone, evidently proceeding from that narrow hall branching off from the main gallery.
               Swiftly and with light steps I fled down the dim passage sage; so swiftly that the candle became extinguished, and I was alone in utter darkness.
               Groping my way, however, the stone hall was reached, and there a wavering light guided me; soon my further progress was arrested by the sight of a door partly open.
               From within came the sound above described. My hand was upon the knob, my feet were about to cross the threshold, but this purpose was stayed. How it happened I cannot remember, but, instead of entering, I fell upon the floor, numb and shivering, yet fascinated by the scene within.
               The apartment seemed some olden chapel, with groined roof, and windows of stained glass, high altar-piece, and a prie-dieu whose velvet cushions were time-worn and faded.
               A trifle beyond was revealed a smaller chamber. What could it mean? Luxuries abounded there. An astral lamp shed its refulgence upon every object.
               It seemed a dream; it was not possible I could have been in a waking mind.
               A figure stretched upon a divan engaged my whole attention. It was that of a man young and handsome. While I gazed, he arose and tottered from the couch into the chapel-chamber; coming towards the door, he stood leaning wearily against it, and murmured, "Will she never come back?"
               Then he groaned querulously in the tone that had brought me thither.
               The features were worn and sharpened, apparently from illness; but in my life I had never gazed upon masculine face so superb. Eyes of blue, dark and scintillant, hair that gleamed a bright gold, while the head upon which it clustered was set as a dome upon his shoulders.
               The rustling of a dress along the passage, then a step light and quick. I crouched lower yet, for, though in a chaotic maze of bewilderment, I could not have borne discovery. Hope Vairin glided over the doorway. Did I see clearly before me that strange picture? She drew the wan figure close to her; then, leading him back to the divan, she pressed her pure lips to his, laid her fair cheek to the pallid one beside her, stroked the hands, and drew his head to a rest upon her bosom; the gold of his hair clustered there in a shower of treasure. Ever and anon her voice murmured tender words,—low and gentle music with which a mother would soothe an unquiet babe.
               Then she crossed the room and softly closed the door.
               This released me from my thraldom. This shutting me out in extreme darkness awakened my flagging energies. The stone hall was chill, damp, and full of shadows. Perhaps those olden monks were stealing along,—a spectre cavalcade,—brushing against me as they glided on, or touching fingers to my forehead in silent appeal.
               I groped through the gloom, and, creeping noiselessly, was only guided to my room by a glimmer of light that issued from beneath its doorway.
               At last safe within shelter, and pushing the bolt to its place, I commenced nervously to undress. On the hearth a few scattered embers yet burned. These were all to give me light, for the candle had been left outside. Shivering with a nameless fear, I was soon beside Nell, and fairly buried amid hillocks of pillows and blankets that, strange to say, swayed above and beneath me.
               Dreams came that night which were weird enough to mate with a legend from the German Hartz Mountains; and a force seemed pressing me down with iron bands. While under its influence I could not stir a limb or move a muscle; even speech failed me; cries were silenced, and there I lay, outwardly calm, yet suffering in mind an extreme of torture.
               When my eyes at last unclosed, Nell was bending over me with an anxious face.
               "Why, Lucy," she cried, "you were sighing! And it was just horrible to see you so white and still. Oh, dear! what's the matter?
               "Are you awake? wide awake?" continued she, shaking me soundly, for I only stared at her in wonderment, confused, and my brain excited by those visions of the night.
               "Lucy! How shocking in you! Aren't you well?" persisted my sister, pinching me until perforce I was compelled to utter a feeble protest. "You ate too much at dinner, Lucy!"
               "Oh, yes, Nell, yes;" scarcely comprehending; "but such dreams! such bad, bad dreams!" and I shuddered at the thought of them. Nothing rose clearly to mind; every event and memory of the night was massed together in a hideous form. Out of the chaos, however, there distinctly stood forth one picture. It was this:
               I thought myself in some dim, cold place; before me arose the vision of an old, forsaken chapel; beyond this gleamed a chamber fit for fairy prince. I fancied he abode within its walls, and I could see him as he lay upon a couch, fair-haired and beautiful.
               Hope, too, mingled in the dream. She was beside him, sheltering him with her love; but there, in the distance, stood Geoffrey, tall, sorrowful, his gaze bent upon the two figures, his arms outstretched to snatch away that pure blossom from the atmosphere of shadows into which she was blindly plunging.
               But a confused memory lingered with me that it had not been all a dream; some recollection stirred in my mind of an anguished cry having resounded through the night, and of my having gone forth to seek it. Then a picture of the stone hall; the chapel-chamber had been within it. How much was dream, how much reality?
               Nell left me to go on with my toilet, while she went to seek Hope. Soon being dressed, I took my station at the window. Long since, the storm had ceased; the sun was shining, but the sea still fretted and tumbled angrily upon the rocks. I turned away, sad enough, to come full upon Hope, who was just entering.
               "Now," said she, "what's this about bad dreams?" The voice was cheery, and she smiled, but for all that she was not quite her old, bright self.
               And then she heard all that had happened; but, endeavoring to separate real from unreal, I confused myself, and became involved in perplexity.
               Upon my finishing, the listener answered almost angrily, saying, "It was simply a dream from first to last; don't you believe it?"
               "Maybe so." Suddenly bethinking myself, however, I started up, crying, "But the candle! Where can it be? Let me go and search in that hall."
               "No, no," exclaimed the other, drawing me down again. "If it was not a dream, the candle is still there; I'll look immediately, to convince you."
               In a few moments she returned, with hands empty.
               "Well?" said I.
               "Don't you see, Miss Lucy, it was only a trick of the fancy? Of course I've found nothing."
               I looked up in surprise. Hope did not speak in a natural tone: her voice sounded strange to my ear; and her feet moved with a certain wearied effort.
               "Why, dear," exclaimed I, in a tremor, and holding out my arms to her, "what is it troubles you?"
               In a moment she was on her knees beside me, burying her face in the folds of my dress, and crying bitterly.
               "Poor child! poor child!" I murmured, caressing the waves of hair, and smoothing tenderly their golden ripples.
               "You know not what I have to bear," she said; "you would think a little more kindly of me, perhaps, if you did."
               I raised her face, wet as it was, and shining in tears, and, kissing her again and again, called her my own fair little Hope, and my own bright darling, until between tears and kisses she smiled up at me like a storm-blown lily.
               A maid entered to summon us below. I do not know that in those days there was anything Amazonian in my appearance or deportment; rather had I regarded myself as an humble little woman, more wont to blush at gaze of others than prone to cause the blood to dart into others' cheeks at gaze of my own; but there stood that shy young maid, pale and crimson by turns, awkward and nervous, until, her message rendered, she had grace to leave the room.
               "You think strange of her?" said Hope, when we were alone.
               "Can I think otherwise? She is no ordinary person: if it were not for that ugly mark on her forehead, what a beauty she'd be! By the by, do you know how she came by it?"
               "I do not. There was something about it all told very reluctantly to me once, but I did not understand, quite. Martha is in terror of a strange face, and, Miss Lucy, I'll never forget the morning when Mr. Brent's groom brought papa a note. The effect that man's presence wrought upon her was terrible. Since, she has kept herself closer than a nun; but a braver, a nobler girl never trod the earth, believe me."
               "What a queer thing is life!" mused I. "Here is this poor girl, who may have some strange story in her past, moving among us at her daily work, never complaining, never murmuring; and I think, my dear, there are few of us who bear clean white hearts in our breasts; for the hand of sorrow spills the red blood, and all the fairness, if stained once, is stained forever; yet why need we repine?"
               "Yes," answered the girl; "but I think it's hard that life should be all bright until some one steps in and spoils it for you. I think it's hard, when one has taken all pains to make it smooth and white like a string of pearls, that a rude hand should be dashed across it, and away fly the fair round gems forever. I think it's hard, when for years one has been garnering up dreams and visions, that nothing should remain but a wrecked pride, and a youth given to weeping and bitterness."
               "Why, is this my summer-bird?" returned I, in surprise. "But, dear, the fault lies with us, perhaps; we come to womanhood fondly believing that the rose of life is fit to fill with perfume this broad world. We fancy that our poor lives must stir the pulse of a nation; that what counts as great to us must count as great to many. We think too well of ourselves; and when cruel feet shuffle around, we are pained that they hesitate not to crush us; we did not believe the world had blows for us.
               "And yet we live through anything!"
               The big gray eyes opened very wide on me.
               "Ah, but what have you to complain of? Your heart is full of love; you've always had your sister and brothers; your mother, too,—the remembrance of her features is not shut in by the grave."
               There she was again on her knees beside me, with face hiding in my dress, sobbing and spoiling her fine eyes.
               "Hope," I exclaimed, "do you think I have no burden to bear? In former times, sorrow came to me heavily laden, and the wound would press sorely yet, did I allow it."
               "You, Miss Lucy?"
               "Yes, oh, yes."
               "Yet you smile, and are happy."
               "At times I may appear somewhat melancholy; trouble and care do not always banish gladness, you know. Yes, I am quite happy, but for now and then a looking back where Sorrow set up her monuments along the years, and I needs must stop and weep beside them."
               "Oh, Miss Lucy!"
               Her breath came short, and her eyes sought mine with something of an awe transfusing them.
               "And is it always so? Is happiness not upon earth? I thought you one of God's chosen ones,—of that band whom He selects to be both good and happy."
               "Do not think me too good, dear child," said I: "there was a time when my soul was a rebel in the sight of its Maker; but it is past, and I am content now with what pleases God."
               She took my hand and kissed it, laying it softly between her own; then she rose and kissed me on the cheek, and after that led the way down to the others.
               The morning was bright. Sunshine came loitering into the rooms; even the bleak old hall appeared to revive, catching an incense from its golden beauties. I was restless, though, and longed to escape from stone walls and corridors.
               Romance had donned a robe too sombre to please even my fanciful imagination; rather should she have come a blooming maiden, with dress of brightest texture and crown of dewy roses.
               When we were back again at Wildmoor, it was in proud exultation that I gazed up at its dear old roof and windows.
               So glad to rest within its sheltering walls once more! so glad to be my own free self again! There was the home-nest: I cared not to flutter away from its peacefulness, or to look upon the confines of other and happier borders.
               The pride glowed in my face; but, turning to my brother, the memory of that other day flitted over me, and all my joy turned pale.
               
               He, also, looked upon Wildmoor. Alas, there was that in his look speaking not of gladness or home-triumph! It was even such as Esau might have flashed upon Jacob when despoiled of his birthright. This lasted, though, for but a moment; better feelings gained the mastery; and when Walter, raising his head, encountered Geoffrey's gaze, there was a smile for him on those determined lips, and a bright glance of the eye which hid from the younger all the gloom of that older heart.
               This home-coming was bitter. What would life be indeed when our brother had gone from us! A mere husk, a mockery.
               And what was that shadow which lay so darkly upon the abbey? Why was it that our bright young Hope should droop her head, and moan, and cry out against her burden?
               But does not a sweet woman songster bid us— 
                     
                        "Never complain; why should you bare
                        To the world your heart?
                        For your red wounds what does it care,
                        However they smart?
                        Why burden its gales
                        With your woes and wails?
                        Hush them, and crush them:
                        Never complain!
                     
                     
                     
                        "Less sins than fretting are called crime
                        In this world of pelf.
                        Be strong, be still; 'tis strength sublime
                        That conquereth self.
                        What though your heart ache,
                        What though your heart break?
                        Wear it, and bear it:
                        Never complain!"
                     
                  
               
               A shadow from that gray old abbey seemed to have fallen upon our hearth-stone; it traversed the hall, mounted the stairs, leered into the rooms, and rested upon our faces. I felt its cold, dark hand upon me when passing empty chambers, or when, in the night, lying sleepless upon my bed.
               We could not shake it off, or rid the house of its gloom. Was this indeed a vision of the future? Was this ugly thing to lurk around us, broadening, as does the twilight, into the blackness of a new and uncertain night?
               Of my heart I asked this question untiringly. It could not tell me,—yea or nay.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               CHRISTMAS had come and gone.
               In its flight it had revealed some sober truths; among others, leaving with me a knowledge that life were worthless lest shared by Hope Vairin!
               From myself my feelings could disguise themselves no longer. I loved her, loved her madly and unwisely. And this,—when I found the haughty face might warm and brighten for others, yet set itself hard and pitiless to meet my gaze.
               Before I knew it, mine was the loyalty that for years had been garnering up for her its treasure; mine the love that at her coming cast aside its dross, and burned itself into rare ingots of gold at her two little feet.
               But with this strange, this wonderful emotion warming in my breast, I was content to toss upon the billows, when a combination of circumstances awakened sluggish thought into action.
               My resolve to leave Wildmoor was determined upon. Toil had used me hardly, and the prospect of rest ahead shot across the boundary of thought like the flash of a meteor.
               However, the business of existence moved on as usual.
               I went out with my gun in the morning, and came back at eve with a load of game.
               Ye gods, what a savage pleasure it was to bang away at flying birds, or stretch lifeless the rabbits leaping in the thicket!
               No partridge escaped me; no pheasant could slink away and hide in the fern. Oh, gun, how cruel thou wert then! The affairs of both estates were fairly managed, I flattered myself; breakfast, luncheon, and dinner gotten through with comfortably; in short, each mainspring of action seemed smoothing itself out into clearness for a furtherance of that one event,—my approaching departure.
               Walter came to my room one night shortly after the holidays.
               "Aren't sleepy, Geoffrey, are ye?"
               "I believe not," I answered, suppressing a yawn.
               "Do you know, man, we've not had a talk in an age? What's come over you of late? Are you bilious?—or maybe it's your liver?"
               "Very possibly," replied I, smiling, "it may be the latter; but I'm not opposed to talking, provided you select a subject."
               "Exactly what I'm here for; never fear but that I'll do the selecting; that is,—h—m—at least to-night."
               He stretched himself in a chair, drew a cigar from his pocket, and lighted it; then got up, took a turn or two through the room, and finally stood with his back to the chimney, while wreaths of smoke went circling above his head.
               I could stand it no longer.
               "Walter," said I, in a rage, "if you're going to speak, speak! If not, go to——bed!"
               "A thousand pardons, old boy; but really you're hard on a fellow to-night."
               "I should think I ought to be, when you're coolly puffing away in my face at twelve by the clock. Do you know that this is my hour for retiring?"
               "Exactly; but come, keep cool, and I'll be gone in a half-minute." He laughed saying this, but it was a new tone from him; the laugh possessed not its old, careless ring.
               "The fact is, Geoffrey, I'm in trouble, and I come to you, as I always do, old fellow, for advice."
               "In trouble? Why, how happens that?"
               "In the first place, you shame one so by the example of patience your daily life exhibits; I'm in dead earnest tonight, and—and—now, don't laugh at me."
               "Laugh at you, foolish lad! Out upon you! but go on."
               "Teach me to gain that virtue of patience then, and I'll make a fortune. With a foot upon the lowest round of the ladder only, I've no heart for the climbing. It seems almost useless to attempt, don't it?"
               "Of course not," I told him; "he who fears to risk anything loses all."
               There came a glow to his cheek, a light into his eye, and his voice deepened into strong earnestness.
               "I mustn't lose, Geoffrey; you must help me to win. It would kill me now; but I shall have to plod along for awhile yet before the spurs on my heel are gold-ribbed. I've a dear object in view, and must work, toil for it like a man."
               "Why, Walter lad, I never knew before you had so much ambition."
               My own voice sounded harsh to my ears, but he heeded not.
               "Aha, you don't know me, then! I was reading the other day about some poor devil of a fellow who wanted to get married, and couldn't because of poverty. He went tearing around generally, calling on sun and moon to line his pockets with rattling gold and silver; and, by jings, he declared he'd dispense with grandeur any day for filthy lucre. Now, that's my thought precisely; if I could but bribe old Sol to jingle some of his beams into gold for me, or Luna to fleck my purse with some of those silvery rays you sentimental folks go mad over, why, I'd do it. Gad! none of your bosh and stuff for me,—'the moon shone bright,' 'the stars winked,'—well, you'll dispense with the rest. I can't quote, you know."
               He leaned down, and poked among the coals, but, after a silence of a moment, continued, in quavering tone,—
               "It's no use, Geoffrey; you stare at a fellow so, and such stares as yours would ferret out a ten-foot mystery. I may as well make a clean breast of it at once. Did you imagine why I dropped my plan of studying medicine?"
               For the life of me I could not have answered him; my eyes burned so that I raised my hand to cover them, and the lad talked on, scarcely pausing for a reply.
               
               "You know it would take years to complete the course of study; perhaps years again to establish myself honorably in practice; and it would have been hard, you know, to lose this precious time, longing, as I do, to win Hope for my wife."
               "To win Hope Vairin for your wife! That is your ambition, Walter?"
               The words were stout enough, and I did not intend a constraint in my tone.
               "Yes; but how queer you speak and look! No doubt you think it trying on a man to wait for better luck; but I must force my heart to be dumb when it pleads loudly for a hearing."
               "Men can wait very patiently with an ambition like that before them."
               "But I cannot," answered he, sharply. "I love her so madly that waiting has come to be unbearable."
               "What's the need for waiting?" I returned, as sharply. "You love her,—the girl loves you,—what more is wanting? I can tell you both you're a precious pair of fools!"
               I knew that before we had ended I should work myself into a rage.
               "Why, man alive," cried he, "d'ye think I'd take a wife to Thorndale in its present garb? No, not I; the cage for my bonny bird must shine."
               "How do you propose to make it shine?"
               "Well, I don't exactly see; it's rather hard lines upon me there. But if the harvest comes fair, the tenants all square up honestly, and the timber goes to mill, I suppose there'll be a round fat sum coming in at the end of the year. But, you see, there's so much to be done: the rooms need re-papering and re-furnishing, the grounds a polishing off, and I fear my cash will hardly stand all expenses. If I'd a ready sum in hand, you know, there'd be no difficulty: the men could go to work at once, and shortly we'd have merry times at Thorndale."
               For a long time after that, neither of us stirred or spoke.
               I felt sorry for the boy, and would have liked to help him had I known how; so at last, after much puzzling and reckoning, I asked, abruptly,—
               "How much would start you to make a headway?"
               He gave me one swift, eager, flashing look.
               "Oh, I dare say one or two hundred pounds would help me out; but—pshaw! what's the sense of talking the matter over?"
               "More than you imagine, perhaps." I went to a table, dashed off a check for the larger amount named, and handed it to him.
               "You're a trump, Geoffrey!" ejaculated he, wringing my arm in an ecstasy of joy. "But can you spare this, now, really?"
               "To tell the truth, no! I too have had a project on hand, that now must lie over until some future time. Wildmoor is shabby; but as we'll have no marrying there, please God, the old things will do us for awhile yet."
               True, in the drawing-room a chair or two was possessed of unstable legs; a veteran of a table stood concealed in the corner, long since exempt from service; an escritoire with rheumatic back leaned against the wall, pensioned on half-pay for vigorous skirmishing with pen and paper; other trifles might be enumerated in this category of weaknesses, but here I refrain, and pass to things of deeper import.
               Walter's face was bright as he lay back in the chair, joyful and triumphant. He did not speak, and no doubt was dreaming of the future, with that vivid hallucination of mind which enchains all candidates in the career of Love before they venture a first essay. And no wonder! Oh, mystery of mysteries—pain the sweetest and bitterest in life! the strong man it maketh to tremble as an aspen-leaf; it gilds his morrows with radiance; on into future years it sheds a glory whose rapture is as much greater than other joys as heaven is greater than earth.
               When left alone that night, I looked my sorrow boldly in the face, asking myself again and again how I should go on to-morrow, and the day after, or next year, or many years to come.
               Was this the life bargained for?—this withered husk, this bitter drop from Marah's fount? Where were all those visions of the sweet impossible futures that had stirred me into new enthusiasm? Those who dream must wake. I had had my dream, and, behold, morning had now come, with its myriad tongues, bringing health and joy and peace to all save me.
               It is good to write, because writing gives one a fair chance to say out boldly the many things that unwittingly spring up in the mind. If one is in a huff with the world, an occasion is forthwith presented to break a lance with that strong opponent. If one wishes to have a stab at men, there is the page fair and white, ready for any crossing of steel. If one desires a tilt with women—but, fair ladies, I beg you a thousand pardons for the mere mention of so atrocious a joust!
               But was not my case parallel with that of many? What, indeed, becomes of the heroes and heroines of all the numberless love-tales that are enacted daily around us? Whither float off these heart-breaking sighs? Of what avail are moans and cries to bring back a lost peace vanished forever? The vows that have been broken, the eyes that have lied, the lips that have kissed and killed at a touch,—what punishment, think you, will be meted out to traitors such as these?
               At first I could not bear it calmly, but paced the room with fierce, hasty step.
               There was Queen Bess on the wall, in the inevitable high ruff; I have a vague recollection of wondering if it were throttling her, as my rising visions appeared to be throttling me. The room seemed dark with a storm that shortly would spend its fury upon my head; but who cared? One unit more added to the universal desolation could not matter.
               Yet over and above all there came Memory to flaunt her pictures fair before my eyes, and brokenly my voice went up,—"I know not how this will find me in time to come; I only know that to-night I am weak and reckless, and tempted to curse my God!"
               What a mockery is existence! A sudden glow,—then darkness.
               My resolution to leave Wildmoor should be put into execution before many days had rolled around. I would turn my back on those thronging memories; go far beyond our hills to the great outside world; become one of the stout, broad-shouldered men who fight for the prizes of life. As a Titan might have viewed the sheer summit of Olympus, I looked ahead on the path before me, resolving that henceforth Ambition should reign,—my only mistress.
               It was early the next morning I met Fay in my walk across the breezy moor. She did not want me to join her; I saw that. Possibly it would have been a wiser course to strike into another turn of the heath, but I was not to be foiled by a simple girl, and so fell in beside her.
               "What is the matter with you?" I asked, looking sharply into her face. "Do you not know you are growing thin and pale? Why don't you take care of yourself?"
               She laid a hand upon each cheek to feel its hollowness, and laughed nervously.
               "I didn't know I was doing otherwise, sir; at least in my way."
               "Your way is a bad one, then; why, to look at you, one would suppose that you were fairly weighted down with trouble. Aren't you ashamed so to belie yourself?"
               "Oh," said she, with a tremor in her voice, and her eyes fell to the ground as she stirred the gravel with the point of her parasol.
               "Youth is too apt to borrow grief, little Miss Fay: do you not know that? It is the folly of young people to brood on sorrow, fancying themselves all immersed in the dreary pool. Now, I'm not going to have that from you."
               "How will you help it, Mr. Brent?"
               "That I do not know, indeed; but I would take away with me a pleasant memory of your face, little one. Look up, and smile."
               She did so,—quickly, too. I could have sworn to a sudden tear on her lid.
               "Away, sir? Why away, and where?"
               "Ah, Fay, there you strike me. I am going to Scotland for the hunting. Are you sorry?"
               The old toss of head and ringlets:
               "Sorry! Why should I be? No: I wish you joy, sir."
               "Well, good-by" (stopping short off). "Now, remember to take care of yourself, will you?"
               
               "Good-by," said she, as she took my proffered hand.
               "And is that all? Have you nothing—no word of kindness—to give me?"
               "Well, ye-es; I hope the game'll be plentiful; do not you, sir?"
               "A curse on the game!" I muttered inwardly, as, with a bow, I flung away that white hand fiercely enough, and made straight for home.
               What right had I to believe any woman would bestow her love upon me?
               She was pretty, gay, and gentle,—a fair toy to play with—bah! Yet she was driving me from home, and I was madly foolish enough to be driven.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               I MUST not fail to note down a strange coincidence that occurred here.
               Years ago, it had been my ill fortune to stumble across the path of a dissolute young nobleman,—a certain Lord Chester,—whose acquaintance, were it not owing to title and position, would have brought the blush of shame upon the cheek of any honest man.
               His brief course of dissipation terminated as might have been expected: he was felled to the earth by the hand of some unknown murderer, although public suspicion and the finger of the law pointed to the guilty party in the person of a young relative, Herbert Chester by name.
               Whether it was he who had lifted his arm to dare the red crime, I was then incompetent to decide. Later, the injustice of public opinion became self-evident.
               No word of the pending change in our household had as yet been spoken among us. But I detected by the sadness in Lucy's eyes that she was brooding silently upon it.
               It was my resolve to say nothing to Walter until the day preceding my departure.
               In the mean time, I was plunged head and ears in business. There were long accounts to reckon up; cash expenses to balance; orders for the steward; grumbling tenants to satisfy, etc.; lastly, there were my desk and library to put in order,—no small task, by the way.
               And it was then so ordained that the singular coincidence above mentioned should occur.
               In opening long-unused drawers and recesses, I came across a bundle of papers tied conspicuously in red tape.
               Although that mark of the beast—i.e., red tape—was upon them, they proved to be quite other than lawyers' deeds or settlements. To my astonishment, I found them a number of copies of The Times bearing a date 18—, that, for some purpose, I had filed carefully and secretly away.
               Without more ado, I sat me down to look them over; caught the usual series of births, deaths, and marriages; scanned the advertisements; glanced at the local columns and police reports; then, turning to the first and principal page, was startled to discover, in staring black capitals, the following announcement: 
                     "CONCLUSION OF THE GREAT CHESTER TRIAL! VERDICT OF THE JURYMEN! REMARKS FROM HIS HONORABLE LORDSHIP!"
                  
               
               There in detail it was all before me. Setting myself to work with much precision, I went step by step over the proceedings once again.
               It had been one of those cruel, unfair deeds which stir the whole country into wonder and revolt. It mattered not that the murdered man was of openly profligate character,—a scourge to the morals of all youths so much as daring to venture within pace of him. He was the scion of a noble house, and his spilled blood clamored loudly for vengeance.
               The world, by courtesy, shovels the dust over her pampered pered ones with much delicacy of manipulation; she would resent with a frown the ungraciousness of any untoward clod that flung itself harshly down upon that miserable corruption beneath the coffin-lid.
               The accused likewise became an object of universal interest.
               Not from motives of Christian commiseration; for the public at large accredited him with the crime, and in most approved style were wild in shouts for his downfall.
               But he was young, brave, and handsome; the petted darling of a score of drawing-rooms, and none the less a representative of the same noble house, being a son of a younger son of the old deceased lord.
               I repeat, the public branded his name with infamy. The young bloods of both town and country turned their backs upon him, and he was left to undergo his trial without prop or smile of friend.
               It happened in this wise:
               One moonlight night in June, a dead body was discovered lying beside a stile in Dart's mead-field; upon examination, it proved to be that of the young nobleman, covered with dripping blood. A horse stood near, with rein made fast to one of the posts.
               From a stab in the left side, the men who had stumbled across the unsightly corpse wrenched a dagger, and, holding it up to the light, found that the hilt sparkled with jewels, and that a name was engraven thereon in fine flowing letters.
               That name struck a chill to the hearts of them all, for he who read pronounced words familiar to the county,—Herbert Chester!
               The news ran like wildfire, and there were growls and mutterings presaging the rising storm.
               For three weeks, search for the victim proved all in vain. But when those thirstings for vengeance were at their strongest, he made his way, wan and wasted, into the court-room, and delivered himself up to justice, pleading an illness as the cause of previous non-appearance.
               The trial was of lengthy duration; the briefs on either side eloquent and learned. For the most, the witnesses were clear, concise, and consistent; but circumstantial evidence rose strong in disfavor of the prisoner; it was the universal opinion that he would be convicted.
               Yet the final verdict, "guilty or not guilty," hinged itself upon one question:
               Where was Herbert Chester on that moonlight night in June?
               The 15th of the month it was, as certified in the proceedings.
               There was a tavern a half-mile or so from that fatal stile in the meadow. The keeper testified in effect as follows:
               Towards the evening of the day preceding the crime, the accused together with his victim alighted at the inn.
               Numberless farm-hands and laborers were loitering on the green outside. Within, there sat but one person, and he a stoutly-built fellow of moody brow and uncivil tongue.
               The young men called for wine.
               Having served them, the keeper strolled away to witness the outside sports, but was recalled by the sound of angry voices loud in dispute.
               Herbert Chester was standing in excited attitude, parrying blow upon blow from the other; suddenly, while grappling, my lord was forced to the floor, and his opponent, planting a knee upon his breast, raised a dagger threateningly above it.
               Query.—Could he swear to its being the weapon found upon the murdered man?
               Yes, the keeper said, he could swear to it. He remembered the flash of the jewels!
               At that critical juncture, when the spectator held his breath in dismay, Master Herbert sprang suddenly to his feet with a loud, rollicking laugh, gave a hand to his cousin, slapped him on the back, and swore they would be friends true as steel. It was noticed that the field-hands and laborers had straggled in; there was then a crowd in the room, and in the presence of that crowd the reconciliation took place.
               In the tumult, the man with the moody brow had risen, and stood with his face to the disputants. He tramped away soon after, disappearing from the neighborhood altogether.
               
               To wind up merrily, the Chesters would have liquor served to all that riotous set, and the walls of the old tavern fairly rang with shouts and acclamations.
               The stars were out when the young men mounted their horses.
               Herbert Chester was first in the saddle. "Remember," called he, before starting off, "remember we meet to-morrow at eight in the evening, by the stile in Dart's mead-field."
               "All right," came the answer, each horseman galloping away in opposite direction.
               What was more likely than that at the rencontre on the succeeding night a new quarrel had sprung up, terminating, as shown, in a woeful crime?
               What more likely than that a hot-headed young fellow such as Herbert Chester should have dyed his hands deep in a fellow-being's blood, not counting the costs, nor the vengeance which a wrathful Nemesis exacts from mortals who sin?
               It was likely.
               But there were different tales to be told, leading the learned counsel to put their sagacious heads close together in wonderment at the many phases assumed by circumstances in their line of business.
               The witness upon whose testimony the prisoner's defense mainly depended proved to be a young girl—Patty Doyle by name—who had nursed him through that late tedious illness.
               The journals described her as a young, handsome woman, of reliable and honest character; one who had been in service with the first of the county gentry.
               But for several months at that time she had been dwelling with a kinswoman,—the wife of a well-to-do farmer of the old provincial school, who lived in an adjoining county.
               A subpœna was served upon her. In accordance, the girl appeared at court. Her statements were concluded to be open, candid, and thoroughly consistent.
               Reading over anew the dark history, I could not refrain from applauding the artlessness of that honorable maiden, forced to appear before a concourse of people. Standing in the midst of the throng, she was powerless to save her reputation from being roughly scanned and thumbed by the eyes and fingers of the law.
               In the forenoon of that memorable 15th of June, she affirmed, Master Herbert came to the cottage where she was then a visitor.
               What had brought him there? interrupted the counsel for the prosecution.
               The girl remained silent.
               Was he not her lover?
               The attorney for the defense objected to the nature of this question, as being irrelevant to the proceedings.
               But after much argument, in which the opposing counsel established his right to the possession of a free and impartial evidence, Patty Doyle was forced to make answer.
               "No," she said, while a flush of shame suffused her cheek.
               Did she mean to assert that Herbert Chester had never made professions of love to her? persisted the interrogator.
               He had.
               Then why did she deny the fact?
               The reply came in thrilling tones: "Still, he is no lover, sir! I am a virtuous woman; therefore refused to favor a suit which, coming from the high to the low, could but lead to shame and dishonor."
               A murmur of applause pervaded the court-room. Patty, burning under the wrong of outraged womanhood, and who, for her youth and fairness, might have reigned queen in the land, was allowed to tell her story in her own simple, girlish fashion.
               In the forenoon of the 15th of June, Herbert Chester made his appearance at the cottage, as he had been wont to do many a time before. Feeling ill when arriving there, before nightfall he was down with a raging fever.
               For a while the inmates of the farm-house heard nothing of those growls and mutterings that foreboded the storm ahead. When the red hand of fever dropped away, however, the young fellow was roused to a consciousness of the ruin threatening to overwhelm him, and, as soon as he was able, dragged himself to town, to disprove that suspicion of guilt which rested darkly upon his honor.
               He did not doubt but that he could clear himself with small trouble; so conscious of his own innocence, that anticipation of disgrace never flashed into his mind.
               Having proceeded thus far in her testimony, the girl was reminded that she was upon oath.
               Could she swear to the correctness of that date,—the 15th of June,—thereby proving an alibi in behalf of the accused?
               Her voice in answer fairly startled that vast assemblage. "I swear it!" she said. And then something marvellous ensued.
               No sooner were those words "I swear it" part and parcel of the surrounding air, than Patty Doyle, raising her eyes for one hurried glance around the court-room, seemed as by a miracle to become pallid as marble; she pressed her hands to her face suddenly, as if seeking to shut out some dreaded vision, then fell forward in a deadly faint. A scene of tumult resulted. The proceedings were closed for the day; the court adjourned for a future sitting.
               No one could attribute a cause for the unaccountable behavior of poor Patty. And before nightfall still further was public wonderment aroused when news rang out upon the town that some unknown man had that evening forced his way into her presence, and, first using threatening and violent words, had finally struck her a blow upon the temple which laid the girl senseless at his feet; the people of the house, rushing in, merely caught a glimpse of a flying figure that escaped through their bit of London garden.
               For days Patty Doyle lay very ill; white and speechless, she was extended on her bed, with no hope that the life would ever flutter back to her heart. But youth was strong, and at last death was forced to succumb to its brave, bright foe.
               At the next issue of the trial, this new phase in the way of incident underwent a strict investigation.
               Had the witness previous knowledge of her assailant?
               A dead silence for barely a moment.
               Then a deep, clear "No!"
               Could she not suggest a cause for his brutal conduct?
               (It was a noticeable fact that in her latter testimony the girl seemed strangely confused; she hesitated in answer, wavered in her statements, and altogether left a conviction upon the public mind of proving a most unreliable authority.)
               No—yes, that is, she could merely guess at motives that were so entirely in the dark.
               Did she believe him in any way implicated in the murder?
               She did.
               What reason could she advance for such belief?
               From a word or two he had let fall upon the evening of the assault.
               And then the counsel commanded her to repeat these words.
               They were as follows: "If that young Chester could be made to swing for another man's crime, why, curse him!—let him, then, in the devil's name!"
               (This was an important item. If young Chester had not perpetrated the murder, evidently that unknown man, and he alone, could unravel the mystery.)
               The witness was then called upon to describe him.
               "There was a red beard, and much sandy hair falling over his temples, your honor," faltered poor Patty, who, no doubt, was controlled by a secret fear of his lordship. Her voice was trembling, and her face had a pale, ashen hue.
               "He was thin rather, and grum-looking, and a very small man, your honor." There she broke down, and sobbed for a time, but lowly, and as if her breath were thick and short.
               "Now, pay heed, girl," came the admonition of the court. "Will you swear before God that you do most solemnly believe the unknown himself to have committed this crime?"
               There was no tremor as she replied, "I do, before God, most solemnly swear it."
               But, strange to say, no trace of the murderer was found by any one detective; wherever he may have been, he was as safely hidden from human justice as if stowed away in the bowels of earth or concealed beneath the waves of murmuring ocean. Time passed on; nothing could be discovered; and when the body of Lord Chester had long since been food for worms, his young relative, neither fully acquitted nor condemned (by the world at large), was freed, with the shadow of a crime to hang dimly over his future. The journals were bitter in their denunciations, reminding one of a pack of wolves snarling at a flying man's heels.
               And so I had kept these records very faithfully, as an instance, perhaps, of the links that, falling asunder from the hand of crime, finally gather themselves together and unite to forge a manacle stronger than iron.
               Reading them over set me to thinking of those haughty people whose pride had been forced to grovel in the dust. "Poor, miserable devil!" said I, thought turning upon that dashing young fellow who, no doubt, had started out in life with head raised high, and feet too light to tread but on fancy. "Poor, miserable devil of a Chester! What avail name, birth, and position against odds such as trampled him down?"
               That score of drawing-rooms made announcement that they would be closed against him from henceforth. Papas wisely shook their heads, and mammas, with much dignity, counseled their marriageable daughters to banish him from memory.
               There was some idle twaddle over dressing-room fires, and then he was quite dropped from the recollection of town and country.
               It does not matter how a man may struggle, once Fate has him by the throat, preparatory to tossing him hither and thither as a dog tosses a worthless bone.
               I tied the bundle of papers securely together again, meaning, some future day, to have another peep at them: that is, when my mind should have taken on more of its wonted philosophy.
               Those long accounts were then reckoned up; cash expenditures satisfactorily balanced; that grumbling race of tenants persuaded to slip the bit of compliance into their mouths.
               And lastly, nothing was left for me to do but walk from my own doorway, and permit myself to be whisked by rail whither I would.
               But there the yoke pressed.
               A something intangible held me back, or seemed so to do. True, I might have crossed my threshold (being a free agent) with as much facility as a fly speeds athwart the ceiling. But, after some fashion, my feet had grown to be transformed into mere lumbering machines that were adopting a new trick of refusing to do duty.
               Day after day so passed, finding me at Wildmoor, still strangely loth to depart to Scotland for the hunting.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               "THEN hang it, I say, what the devil's a fellow to do when a woman tells him this sort of thing?"
               "Certainly not make an ass of himself, as you're doing, Walter; you'd better be shot at once."
               "I wish to Heaven somebody would do me that favor!" retorted he, lifting a gray, miserable face from hands trembling visibly. "Do you know," he went on, "I envy you that cool, imperturbable way of never caring for anything but what pleases you! Good God! to think how I've doted on that girl! but I was a confounded fool to believe a few smiles and flowers meant love. She says she likes me in a friendly sort of way; but that's the deuce with women, they tell me: they'll give you enough friendship, never fear. I shan't cut up any bobberies about it, old fellow; she can't help it, you know; but it's deuced hard on a man for all that."
               He got up, and walked across the room with hands in his pockets, whistling in a sort of minor key some air that suggested drearily of graveyards and ghouls.
               "Did you think it would turn out this way, Geoffrey?"
               "No. I was sure it would be otherwise."
               "You thought she liked me?"
               "I did."
               "And you would have been glad if things had been different?"
               "I would be glad seeing you happy, Walter."
               "Well, I'm sorry you're disappointed; but, at any rate, I must stop making a confounded ass of myself. How do I do it, old boy?"
               "My dear fellow," I cried, bursting into a loud laugh, "go yonder to the glass, and look at yourself."
               He went to the mirror, and stood before it, making severe grimaces at the reflection looming therein.
               "Well, I do see my moustache has gone a trifle one-sided, eyes are rather watery, and my cravat's quite unsettled. Now, what else's to pay?"
               "Have you inspected your nose?" I said, still laughing.
               "What's gone wrong with my nose, pray?' he inquired, rather indignantly. "Is it there" (with some scorn), "is it there love strikes deepest?"
               "I could bet you have cried like a woman, Walter; now, if you're to give over being a fool, you'll not permit your nose to brandish the red flag any longer. It tells on you, you see."
               He did not reply, but took to whistling his melancholy tune again; and when, after the lapse of a half-hour, I came back from an interview with the postman, he totally surprised me by announcing his plans for the future, as follows:
               "I'm going back to the musty books and all that sort of bosh, Geoffrey." The words were terse, but explicit.
               "What of Thorndale?" I asked, incredulously.
               "Oh, Thorndale may go to the devil; but you wouldn't mind overlooking it on the way occasionally, would you?"
               "I'll try to, before it gets quite to its destination, perhaps. But now, are you serious? It is no slight responsibility to put one's self to the study of a profession, and I wish you to weigh the matter well before deciding. Remember your aversion to the close application a short while since."
               "Yes; but there was a reason for that. I had other game before me then; but now—now I'm resolved; nothing under the sun can turn me from my purpose. It was devilish generous in you to give me that check, old boy, but I'll not need it now. I've told Luce to get my things ready in a day or two, and I do intend to put my shoulder to the wheel in downright earnest, and do the thing that is right and best."
               There was a certain recklessness in these words, which I did not think proper to encourage. Indeed, it was obvious that the unhappy young fellow should be made to look back upon his love as a something that wore cloven feet and sported horns upon its head.
               We all of us, when suffering that pain, imagine it a new-born throb of woe, and straightway swathe it in flannel and fine linen, and prepare a dainty couch whereon to lay its limbs. But in what a mist of stupidity do we grope! For, since the time when Adam and Eve were glorified as first father and mother in the wilderness, has not that cry of the unmated soul passed beyond the wings of night?
               So surely as a breath clouds the pure crystal, so surely, young man and young woman, must ye enter the gates of Paradise, to be pressed therefrom by the angel with his flaming sword!
               "And everything has changed quite wonderfully," I could not help but think, reviewing those few latter days in which the experience of a lifetime had figured. Yes, we were back in our old groove again; for as the world turns on its axis steadily, surely, so in like manner does the human mind revolve upon its axis of hope. Imperceptibly it creeps around, until now we are upward nearing the sun of Joy, and again are we hurled below to become steeped in darkness and chaos.
               It was early in the dawn of a cold winter morning that we stood at the door to watch Walter drive away behind a pair of sleek gray posters, with trunk and valise strapped stoutly to the back of the phaeton.
               "God bless you, Luce!" he said, while he put his arms up to her neck, and laid his cheek to hers as he had done when a boy in round jackets. And then the two girls cried, and Nell would not let him go for patting his face with her hand.
               "You'll come back to us next summer, dear?" said Lucy. "And if anything goes wrong,—oh, my darling boy,—never fear to let us know."
               "Oh, as for that," he called, cheerily, "I can always manage to keep on my legs, through thick and thin. Gad, but it's cold! Good-by."
               The ponies trotted off, and the bright, handsome face was gone,—never, never more to return in its beautiful, open boyishness; for when we saw him again the hardness and worldliness of the man had stamped itself upon him, and wrenched away much of that pure, unsullied candor of youth.
               Perhaps in life the hardest.lesson that is given us to learn is that of self-conquest. It serves, too, as a disciplinarian of our human nature. Men acquire it with more facility than women, for the latter are creatures of impulse, while we men have still so much of the old Adam within us that invariably, like him, we hesitate before plucking the golden apple.
               It must be a terrible thing for one to put aside all else for the sake of duty; to say, This belief, this desire, this hope that makes of life an aureole of joy, stands in the place of what is right and first, and then to rise steadily up and turn one's vision from it. But it must be done at some time on our way from birth to death, and it can be done.
               We bear disappointment; true, we almost die struggling against it, but what a proud moment is it when able to say, "I'm master of myself! I can brave anything! At will, I can tear out by the roots this or that trust or aspiration. I can take even love,—the grandest, the strongest emotion of them all,—can take it from my soul and trample it under foot, when to love would be unwise or sinful."
               And who are the people incapable of self-conquest? The men reeling drunken through our streets; the men insulting night by their play at the gaming-table; the men coveting and dishonoring their neighbors' wives; women that die of love for some fellow not worth the cost of a sigh; and, verily, the women falling to degradation when they might, with triumph, be crowned angels instead.
               Of all the sublime lessons in life, let us con that of subjugating self; let us learn it by rote, if in the endeavor we are required to labor with both might and main.
               Upon Walter's disappointment and consequent departure, I would have been less than human had not a fresh, bright hope reared its altar within my breast. But I found myself regarding its sweet-browed divinity with furtive glance and whisper of disapproval. An old experience had taught me how unwise it is in man to follow Ariadne through the mazes of the labyrinth, and I had come to be skeptical in regard to that thread of hope, though it were woven of gold, and, like Jacob's ladder, with the angels passing and repassing, reached from earth to heaven.
               In those days I had not learned my lesson well; the pride and stubbornness of humanity were twin-born in my nature; there was a warring and clashing of elements perpetually, and more often the lord of the domain—i.e., myself—was bound and chained hand and foot by his own serfs and vassals,—the failings and weaknesses of human flesh. Therefore, of all lessons in life, that of conquering self is one of grandeur and sublimity. Let us master it well.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               WHO of us, I wonder, are champions of the temporis acti?
               
               The things that are past are dead and gone; in time we come to look at them dispassionately, and find that we maintain but little sorrow in their death and burial.
               There was indeed a selfish delight in the promulgation of that rivalry with Master Jack or Tom who had come to be acknowledged as quite our inferior in a translation of Horace or in the recitation of a favorite passage from the old blind man of Greece. It was much of a triumph to ride on at the head of that youthful brigade, with Ovid in clearest page before one, "Sallust's Jugurthan sentences" smiling in simple parsing form, and Tully, with vague polemical structure and cold forensic notion, gliding along into graceful oratory.
               It was much of a triumph, all this, I say, in the early college days. But what availed it afterwards? Fared they not better, those young fellows to whom Virgil, Ovid, and Sallust remained ever a sealed mystery?
               The temporis acti! Let us not praise it highly, for too well we know that yesterday was fair. I remember how cheerily shone the sun, how the birds sang, and how the morning-glories came creeping up to my window. Do you think I mean those twenty-four hours preceding today? No; I refer to that string of yesterdays which have fleeted by and left us to stand loitering in their wake with hands outstretched, petitioning to hold fast but one tiny joy,—one, we perceive, too rapidly vanishing. Oh, the dreariness of looking back! the chasm between now and then!
               I remember, too, how I sat at my college-window, and looked abroad on a belt of trees, and at a cross on a church-steeple above them shining like gold; beyond still, at a breadth of sky that was blue as the bluest deeps of ocean. I remember how there was a screen of vines to frame the sunlight in a golden-green setting; how a bird sang in the branches of a tree growing in the road. Yes, I remember all this, and that every morning or two there used to come a couple of small boys over the way who were wont to indulge themselves in the delights of manufacturing mire pastry.
               What a time is that for children,—what a wonderful time! For us who are grown up, who have left it in the past, it is simply yesterday. Long ago we put away those joys; one by one our childish dreams have fallen from us as garments scant and well worn, to be donned never again.
               How bitterly the blasts blow upon us now! How Sorrow fells us with his strong hand! Yesterday, we children sat with faces turned to the far towns and meadows; gathered roses and buttercups on the way; cried gayly out at the beauty of the distant hills, and gardens, and music, wondering that the earth should be so strangely fair.
               To-day, we have reached some of those halting-places. Our eyes are full of tears; and our hearts! they have fainted—once, twice—on the road, for there were the terrible partings, the graves, the lost hopes; the long days, longer nights, and weary watchings; the farewells, and the kisses upon lips before the coffin-lid shut them in forever.
               There was a day when the first death was in the house. We children were small then; the stillness of the shroud was appalling. For months afterwards we would awake at night, shuddering at the beat of rain upon windows, or at the moan of wind through keyholes and down chimneys; but when summer came the country was all green, and we forgot, amid hills, cows, clover, and farm-houses, that there was such a thing as death; we forgot the horror of it, the bitterness of it!
               Years drifted on. We were up in the morning with the birds, and out on the uplands, or among the pines, brushing amid fallen leaves for cones and burs, or wooing the green needles to shower us over with their splintery barbs. Bright and gay were we till that shadow fell which has marked itself a solemn, reverent niche in the years for all time to come. The sun shone brightly one day, and the birds sang. Yet with us there was sorrow, mourning, desolation; and when every twelvemonth that time rolls around, we come down to the family-table with a look on our faces which tells, one to the other, how thought is traveling backward, how it has leaped the gap made in our midst, and how it sees only that terrible yesterday which dawned with so much of desolation, though the flowers were in bloom, the children played, and the thrushes chirped.
               I cannot tell why I wander on in this melancholy strain. There are so many yesterdays in my life gurgling over with freshness, bloom, and beauty; so many sheaves of golden joys yet ripe for the harvesting; so many stars coming up from the east towards the meridian,—stars that are flashing ruby worlds, and that link with the harmonies in this vast sphere of life! Yet I love to think and write of those whom I hope to meet again in that fair, fair city beyond the clouds; that city with the gates of pearl and streets of jasper; that city where the faces of those we knew on earth shine out with a lustre rare and holy.
               I remember how green in those early college days were the banks of that river whereon we were wont to assemble for the yacht-racing; vying with freshmen, junior, and sophomore in winning the goal. I remember how at evening the cow-bells would come up from the road in a faint, broken tinkle; how at night the houses whitened in the moonlight, and lamps shone ruddily from the windows.
               I remember how free we were from care, and how cheery it was to understand that those of our elders who were there seemed gladdened by a mingling with the young whose time for sadness had not yet come. The river, no doubt, still flows on, the boats sail away, the people glide to and fro, the twilight falls, and the stars come out.
               But it all seems changed to me now, vastly changed. I wonder who now listens for the cow-bells; who now marvels at the green banks; who now notes the houses whitening in the moon-rays, or the lamps shining ruddily from the windows!
               I am glad the voices of friends fell upon our hearts kindly then; I am glad we young fellows were so happy. You see, that was yesterday; and some of us have dropped off from life; some, severing old ties, have gone far away; some have found new friends, forgetting the others; some have formed new ties and new associations, and the old friendships are faded quite.
               So we meet and part, live and die, and the world goes on and on without pause.
               After all, what matters it that yesterday has gone? It was over-fair; but it is past, it is dead, it is buried. Look up; do you not see the new day breaking in the east? Do you not see the world trembling with the sweet new life stirring on her hill-brows?
               But oh, my friend, when will dawn that day which shall know no yesterday, no parting, no sorrow, no death?—that day which will see the sun rise, the birds sing, children play, the people come and go, but which will be no day for you or for me? It is surely on the way. Let us look to it, then, that our yesterdays be made fairer and fairer; let us look to it that our lives be not all of this world; let us be braver, brighter, and truer.
               Then will we not shrink from the call; rather we will go gladly forward and upward to climb the hills, to face the stars, the angels, and the majesty of God.
               I had not seen Miss Vairin since Walter's departure; but there was to be a dinner-party given by Mrs. Dashwood, to which we were all bidden. I knew that a meeting was inevitable; and I rather dreaded it than otherwise. It was by no means pleasant to be brought face to face with a woman before whom I was afraid of making a fool of myself; and that I was so afraid, every nerve, every fibre, of my being testified when brought in contact with her.
               The company was assembled when father and daughter entered the drawing-room. The latter was an image of sweet, nun-like gravity, in some sort of gray dress, with the ripples of her hair caught on one side by a rose. She seemed unavoidably the subject of much comment; for our hostess, priding herself upon the acquisition of two new guests at an entertainment, made a point of exhibiting Mr. Vairin in easy (?) converse with the Lady Ada, and of adroitly changing the personalities of Miss Vairin's admirers, so that, from silent Mr. Dashwood down, every man in the room had a fair chance of gauging the calibre of that young lady's mind,—that is, supposing aforesaid admirers to be capable of such estimation. For, with the solitary exception of Captain Mildmay, every stalwart son of them said "exactly," and "is that so?" and "'pon honor!" and "ah!" to any and every sentence a woman would utter.
               The appearance of Mr. Dashwood was an excellent suggestive of the native affection for roast beef and plum pudding, he presenting much the semblance of a sleek, well-fed ox. He was usually immersed in a silence profound;—nature, no doubt, having had an eye to the future elective affinities of his soul,—for that soul's elect was one whose volubility of speech seemed never hampered by the defection of an idea.
               "Do," said she, while the soup was being removed, "do, my dear Mrs. Briarly, tell me how you manage to keep up an appearance of such blooming health. I'm actually nervous on my own account now that poor old Dr. Wegg is gone from us. What a blessing he was to the country, political opinions and all! and now to think there's a rumor afloat that his successor actually frowns down upon any notion to have that last statute repealed! After this, I shouldn't be surprised if we were all murdered in our beds some fine night."
               "Why, as for that, Mrs. Dashwood," said Squire Briarly, impetuously, "why, as for that, we'll just take precautionary measures in time. By the Lord Harry, not a man of us 'll get sick, and our bright politician 'll have to pack himself off to some less healthy neighborhood. The ladies (God bless 'em!), the ladies, I affirm, are much too good to be prescribed for by such a scapegrace. What have you to say to that, Mr. Dashwood?"
               "Nothing, sir, nothing," returned that gentleman, with a solemn wave of the hand, as if in silent protest at his being supposed to entertain an opinion upon any point whatever.
               "What has his curing power as a physician got to do with his ideas about statutes?" interpolated Captain Mild-may; "you don't suppose parliament is going to be humbugged into temerity and non-repeal because a small provincial doctor sets up his notions to thwart the bulk of the landholders and reformers, do you?"
               "Why, young sir," thundered forth a stiff old baronet who was great in diamond studs,—"why, young sir, what do you know about politics? If you could see ahead of you as far as your nose, you'd find out fast enough the country's going to the dogs. Look at Dragham! Didn't it go two-thirds for non-repeal? And what is the consequence?—and what is the consequence?" he repeated, boisterously, as if arriving at a great point in the argument. "Why, every lying hypocrite of a doctor turned out in a new sulky, and went in for enormous bets at Epsom! Yes, sir,—enormous—enormous! It's a great thing when the price of drugs is so far above par; and this a free country, by the Lord!"
               "Dear, dear," whimpered his wife—a mildly subdued dowager—in an aside to Miss Vairin, "have you noticed how those new young ladies dress? No wonder, when their father extorts so from the people. Sir Robert wouldn't have him for a dog, my dear."
               "Have you, too, formed an opinion upon the subject?" inquired Mr. Vairin of Lady Ada.
               She sat beside him, a model of large-eyed, stately serenity. The yellow lines of hair were drawn simply to the back of her head, where they fastened themselves into a coil and made a gay pretense of escaping from the toils of a band of velvet. The fairness of face, neck, and arms was shown to advantage from contact with the blue silk robe, that had seemingly borrowed its tint from our late summer skies.
               "No, indeed," said she, tapping her slender fingers together; "no, indeed, I never talk politics. People that do so are quite disagreeable; no sooner is the matter broached than everybody gets red in the face and goes to quarreling."
               "And you never do that, I presume?"
               "I believe not," was the languid reply. "I wouldn't like to get red in the face; besides, it's a deal of unnecessary trouble to quarrel."
               "What a queenly Griselda you would make!" returned he, gallantly.
               She raised her eyes to his, and then allowed them to drop, quite innocent of any intention to disport their placid loveliness.
               Truly, a daughter of the gods—divinely fair, with none of that teasing earnestness of character which in the women whom one meets at balls or routs would be altogether out of place, and altogether would too thoroughly bore one to be sifting through it, so as to clutch any airy nonsense beneath.
               As for these dinner-parties (and evening parties too, for that matter), I devoutly pray, "Good Lord, deliver us!"
               What are they, pray, but skim-milk? By Heavens, if I want to eat my dinner, what can Miss Wise say to me between the courses? Or what business has she to say anything? Or if I want to talk, what confounded figures do we get entangled in, and how gravely do we dance away from one another adown the room! In the name of all humanity, I protest against such things. Think, ye gods, of drawing on white kids to attend the rout because forsooth a card has gone forth warning one he is expected. The clock strikes ten. We give an agonizing glance at the too-faithful dial, and presently are within the house of hospitality—a melancholy party in white kids.
               "Ah! Mrs. Smith; glad to see you, madam."
               We take seats in a secluded corner, and view the company scowlingly. There is a screen before us in the shape of a stout lady who wears a head-dress of flowers. A couple of her daughters are in attendance, for mark ye not the smiles beaming upon that fascinating youth at her side?
               "You've heard the dear girls sing, Mr. Fitz-William? No? Then you will have an opportunity to-night. Their duets are really charming."
               Mr. Fitz-William assents smilingly, "will be charmed," etc., while he is all the time eying pretty little Miss Rosebud, who never in all her life aspired to operatic music.
               Reader, did you ever go to a fashionable party, and suffer martyrdom one or two mortal hours because of a young siren who sings opera? We mean an ordinary young siren, whose maternal parent suddenly wakes to the consciousness of neglecting her duties to society, and thereupon engages a master to guide the songstress through the mazy labyrinths of the solfeggio. Presently the grandeur of the opera startles the public ear; and then aforesaid master turns his pupil loose, like a wild colt, to roam unfettered through the mysteries of sound, and prey upon the suffering tympani of those unfortunates who come to be victimized by "the dear girl's" singing. When an ordinary young siren attempts opera, she tosses back her head defiantly, turns up her eyes so that as much of the whites as possible may be visible, plants her feet firmly upon the floor,—and then opens her mouth extraordinarily wide. Mr. Fitz-William is enchanted; Miss Rosebud sighs. Silly little thing! do you tell me that shower of compliments is genuine? No, my dear young lady, keep to your love-ballads; never sing opera,—never! Keep to your memories of twilights in the old parlor before time robs you of woman's brightest ornament—a pure, natural voice.
               There are many wall-flowers here, clinging helplessly to their dumb protector as if it were for life. The hostess glides smilingly up.
               "Oh, dear, I'm really afraid you aren't enjoying yourself, Miss Brown!"
               Miss Brown blushes and starts as if she were detected in a theft and were being accused of it, but finally waves back the accusation with a ghostly effort at a smile, and protests she is "having a charming time."
               After all, these fashionable routs are a grand social humbug. You are first beguiled into accepting an invitation; then, having fallen into the hands of the Philistines, the services of the femme de chambre are necessary,—that is, if you are a woman.
               If you are a man, there is some one, no doubt, depending upon your gallantry for escort. Perhaps your sister; it more often happens that it is somebody else's sister. In the latter case you want to look supremely fascinating. Something proves to have gone awry with your shirt-bosom; it is limp. The laundress forthwith receives her share of masculine wrath in the style with which one only exhibits it in one's own room. Then, there is a button off; you call up your sister to be arraigned at the tribunal of buttonless shirts. Your moustache, too, is refractory; and so one waxes demoniacally tragic over one's toilet.
               At last you arrive at your destination. You know nobody; nobody knows you. That is pleasant. You wander about in uncomfortably tight patent-leathers, and are jostled indiscriminately until supper is announced. You see that odious, large-whiskered major in close attendance upon the pretty girl whom you convoyed thither, and you are provoked into deeming him a conceited ass. Finally, you go home with a painful reminder in your temples of the folly committed in attending a fashionable party.
               While philosophizing after this fashion, little Miss Rosebud has been persuaded to occupy the piano-stool. Her modest little figure shrinks from that battery of eyes leveled towards it. The company are alarmed. They deem her a sequel to "the dear girls" in the line of operatic music. She sings; her voice warbles up like the far-away murmurings of a silver conch, then nestles down in her throat as if symboling the flutterings of a frightened bird.
               The stout lady fans herself vigorously, and glances at her girls with a meaning smile.
               But the voice gains confidence; suddenly it flashes out upon one clear and gurgling as with the memory of mountain-birds startled from their eyries; the voice sweet and low, almost childlike in its strength! It is a love-song, and tells quaintly its simple little story. "They met, loved, and parted," as around us myriads are doing hourly.
               Bravo, Miss Rosebud; we kiss the tips of your fingers! Or rather, we would like to so salute them.
               But dinner-parties, evening parties,—we swear to forego them! We denounce them as partaking of the nature of the world, the flesh, and the devil. My dear madam, my dear sir, look to it that you lay not traps for innocent lambs. Your cellar is well stocked. Your Burgundy, your Moselle, your Hock, are unsurpassed; but we wash our throats of them. We do indeed. We will sit in sackcloth and ashes, and rather gulp down our simple claret in private.
               When we were back in the drawing-room, I found myself beside Miss Vairin. "How is it you are not in Scotland, Mr. Brent? I was sure you were gone."
               Circumstances prevented, I told her. My determination was to wait until next season.
               Captain Mildmay strolled along just then, with a book of prints in his hand. "See," he said, ensconcing himself beside Fay, "see this Beatrice! Is it not a glorious face? Humph! I can't tolerate a woman unless she's either very beautiful or very ugly."
               "Why go to extremes?" inquired I. "Why not a face either moderately comely or moderately plain?"
               "Because," he answered, shrugging his shoulders in comic disgust, "because I'm confident if a woman is very beautiful, she's a fool; also, if very ugly, she's a fool; consequently, I'm not bored with having to entertain her: any silly talk suffices. So, you perceive, I'm rather fond of either extreme."
               "I wonder how you class me?" laughed Fay, in some embarrassment, acting as if she were uncertain whether to grow angry or not. "At any rate, Captain Mildmay, you are not over-courteous to-day."
               "Miss Vairin is well aware," said he, rising and bowing in semi-tragic manner,—"Miss Vairin is well aware that I never class her with others of her sex. She is as far removed from the mass as those stars out yonder are from the tree-tops."
               "At any rate, sir," she retorted, "Madame de Staël would disprove your theory. At once she bore the palm for intellect and homeliness."
               "I don't believe it," he affirmed; "I don't think any one possessing intelligence can be altogether ill-featured. There may be only a bright eye to relieve the otherwise dull visage; but what glory can compass that of a full, dark eye in woman? There may be but an abundant wealth of hair, or a nose that might have served Apelles as model, or a mouth curved with strength and character. No, no; if you see a face possessing one rare characteristic, be assured it is not devoid of intelligence. No woman can possess intellect and not bear its mighty impress upon some one feature. And, vice versa, no woman can possess extreme beauty and be devoid of corresponding silliness."
               I went on turning over the leaves of the book that had led to the discussion, and studying the engravings, but heard at intervals the voices of those two as if they were the voices of a dream.
               "Have you ever seen a copy of the Madonna Casa Guidi, Miss Vairin?" asked her companion.
               "No, indeed, but I should like to see it. Do you know that I've never been able to hear much about it, either?—and I have a particular interest in that painting."
               "I was fortunate enough to see the original, once. It hangs in the picture-gallery of the Vatican, at Rome, you know. How it would thrill you with wonder to look upon so glorious a mystery as it represents! Years and years ago, they found it in the Casa, or street, of Guidi—the work of some unknown painter, whose name died and was buried with him. The face is one of marvelous lustre; the eyes are blue, like his own Italian skies; the brow and throat are lily-fair. Two white roses are peeping out from the clusters of brown hair; around the neck is a fillet of velvet clasped with gold. Over the bosom are thrown a lace mantle and a chain of curious handiwork, and the whole picture seems robed in a cloud of vague unrest, marvel, or what you will."
               "And did they never find out anything about the painter?"
               "A little,—very little, though. He was miserably poor, they said, and lived in a garret; but no one ever heard his name. The poor, you know, are always nameless. One day he was found in his pigeon-hole, dead. He lay with face hidden on his arm, the beautiful dark hair falling over his temples. On the bench beside him were his brushes and palette; and there, hanging on an easel just above, was that wonderful picture. His hand yet grasped a brush where he had given a last touch to the eyes. They raised him, but he was quite dead.
               "Then the whole affair got noised abroad, and many grand people came to see it. Lords and great ladies crowded up into that miserable little garret. The pope, hearing of it, caused the picture to be brought to the Vatican, where he placed it in his gallery with others of rare and radiant kinship."
               "But the lady? You can tell me more of her?" asked Miss Vairin, in a tone of half-disappointment.
               "Not her name; but she was the daughter of a nobleman, they said, whom the painter had loved for long months in secret. She was so far, so high above him,—higher even than the stars, he thought,—so that he could never hope to win her. But he poured out his passion in this way, and died with his story and fame all unknown, while the face of her he loved shines on pure and calm, in beatified glory; shines on,—a monument fair to love eternal; a monument that was created into magic life by the touch of his dead but unforgotten hand.
               "The great Napoleon has stood before it in mute wonderment ment. Michael Angelo, Guido, Veronese, and Salvator Rosa strove in rivalry to surpass it. And Rousseau, Voltaire, Gibbon, and Byron have written of it in glowing praise.
               "Who, indeed, has not heard of the Madonna Casa Guidi? I can never forget the face; never, never! It seemed to me then the embodiment of all that was cold and impassionately beautiful. Very fair, innocent, and angelic, you understand, but with the eyes looking down into one's very heart in a sort of far-away, calm, and insensible gaze. But that is woman-like, is it not? always unfeeling, but sweet and still, while one is making an outrageous lunatic of himself."
               "Why, Mildmay," I exclaimed, "you take the matter quite to heart. No doubt our Royal Rifleman has been sadly cut up by the bright eyes he saw occasionally in Calcutta."
               "No, by Jove, Mr. Brent; I'm only referring to men in the painters' and poets' line, you understand. Where can you find a native-born Briton that would splash and founder in such an uncertain sea? Ha, ha, ha! I see myself a victim! Now, I'm all square and above-board where the ladies are concerned, and mean to keep so, by George."
               "You've over-exerted yourself, Harry, I'm afraid," said Mrs. Briarly, with a roguish twinkle of her eye. She had managed to overhear the greater part of the conversation, and had listened with some interest to his story of the painting. "However, Miss Vairin can inspire any of you gentlemen; can she not, Mr. Geoffrey?"
               "Undoubtedly she can," interrupted the captain. "Miss Hope, congratulate yourself upon being the only lady who has yet succeeded in shaking off my laziness."
               There was more badinage of this kind between them, but I had heard enough, and so strolled away to catch a smile from the Lady Ada, who was holding a levee of her own on the opposite side of the apartment. From my position at her left, I could look straight into the glowing heart of a conservatory. Its glass doors were standing wide. Soon a couple of figures were moving to and fro among the plants. The girl made a picture in her dinner-dress dress, with throat white as the hawthorn-rose, and bare arms gleaming against the dusky foliage.
               "How is it," she said naïvely to her companion, "though we're almost novices in friendship as far as time goes—how is it I am always looking to you for a morsel of comfort, particularly in these latter days? Oh, Captain Mildmay, if it were not for you——"
               She stopped short off there, and buried her face in a cluster of red roses.
               The talking in the drawing-room prosed on. It bored me somewhat. It had grown, too, so unbearably warm there that I soon raised an adjacent window, and went out upon the terrace. The moon was in its first quarter. The stars blinked pitilessly down through the cold, clear atmosphere. That quietude of night seemed strangely out of unison with the order of things upon earth. When we begin to find that in all we are striving for the odds are heavy against us, ten to one we resolve upon throwing up all chances either of winning or of losing, and pause to ask ourselves the question, "Is the game worth the candle?"
               Whether we keep that resolve faithfully and to the letter is a question of much more serious import, to my thinking. How many of us do keep it, believe you?
               Not long had I been pacing the terrace, when some one tapped on the window for me. "Are you there, Mr. Brent?" called Mrs. Dashwood.
               She came out, and stood shivering in the cold.
               "In the name of goodness, you strange man, what are you freezing yourself out here for? It's worse than the polar regions. Here have I been hunting the rooms over for you and Hope; find her at last love-making in the greenery,—cheeks fairly burning with the warmth of the place,—and you, like a new explorer, steering for the antipodes!"
               "My dear madam, I am quite at your service," said I. "What would you have?"
               "Oh, nothing much; you know my little nurse has been rather bad off lately, and has at times—you cannot imagine—such strange whims. But the child hasn't long to live, that's plain to be seen, so I try to humor her."
               "Poor Isola! For some time I've missed her from church; but they told me she was getting better."
               "Ah, no! It's always better to-day, worse to-morrow. She'll never get well. A moment ago, when I went up to her room, I tell you I was really startled, there seemed such a sudden change. Hope Vairin has come over to stay with her quite often; the little thing is strongly attached to her, you know. Now she begs to see you. Will you come for awhile, just to satisfy the child?"
               We went in at once. There was music in the drawing-room; a flow of melodious sound from my lady's fingers as they strayed, white and soft, over the keys. But the thought of that mute sufferer up-stairs quite unnerved me; the throng of gay, smiling people grouped promiscuously about came with a sort of jar to probe my awakened sympathy. We went on into the room where lay the sick girl.
               And what a memory to leap into my heart! There was the lamp low-shaded from her eyes. There were pale, swinging curtains to shut out the darkness. There was the little white bed, from which a burning gaze turned full upon me. And there beside it knelt a gray figure, with a flower in its hair, and with bare, gleaming arms uplifted as if in petition. As I came up, it retreated to another corner of the room.
               "I—am g-glad, sir," said Isola, feebly, as I stooped to stroke her hand.
               "Glad to see me, child? I'm sorry that I didn't come before. You are better, are you not?"
               "No—oh, no! I—shall n-never be better—again—you know."
               It was with some difficulty I had managed to find my voice; for the shock of looking down upon that small, pinched face, the large, wide-open eyes, and faint flutterings of breath, was at first too painful to master. As Mrs. Dashwood had observed, it was plain the child had not long to live. But, though this fact had been clearly patent for a year past, it seemed at that moment as if it were news—heavy, pressing news, that drifted me into a mood of uncontrollable sorrow. My little friend would be lost to me,—to me, so destitute of friends. At all times death strikes us with terror. At all times his coming is unlooked for. Yet I think him tender towards the young. He gathers them closely to his bosom, and bears them away to a land where they never lose youth, or freshness, or romance. When we who linger behind shall be gray-haired with age, shall be mumbling our pitiful stories, and shall be sitting in the twilight,—cold and dull,—looking back into the dead years, there will glide from the spirit-world, to cheer us in our desolation, many youths and maidens, with faces young and shining. Their feet have never been weary with travel; their hands have never been hardened by toil; their hearts have never known the bitterness of sorrow or of breaking.
               Oh, happy, happy youth and beauty! to be plucked from the garden on a morn when dew is yet spangling the blossoms, and the grass is green and waving!—to be plucked from the garden before comes the noonday sun to scorch and wither your fragrance, before falls the rain in pitiless cadence upon the sweetness of your dreams! Happy, happy youth!
               I do not think we lose those who die. They go from us in a strong, a brave love; that love lasts forever, and no time can darken it; the grave cannot shut it in, nor can eternity float it away. We have it with us through all change, sorrow, and death. Thank God that it is thus!
               "You will stay with me? You will not go yet?" whispered Isola. "And where's—Miss Hope? Don't—don't let—her leave me!"
               "I shall not leave you, dear," said Fay, coming out of her corner, and taking the thin white hand.
               The child twined her fingers tightly around those others that were all plumpness, and said, between painful pauses for breath, "Don't—no, don't go—away. I like to—to look at you; your face makes—me—think of my mother."
               Then, after awhile, "I—cannot—see you. Where are you? It's growing dark again. Oh, I'm—afraid of the dark! Please turn—the lamp—higher—higher! What are you thinking of? You—are—leaving me all—in—the dark!"
               "No, no!" said Fay, going down again beside the bed, and laying her cheek close to the one on the pillow.
               "It is not very dark. Do you not see me—here? Look at me, Isola! I am staying with you, dear."
               "Are—you there? Well—wait; I'll say an—Ave Maria. It—will—get light then. Don't you know—it will be all—light when I—pray to my beautiful Madonna—Mary?"
               Her lips moved in prayer, but we could not distinguish any words. Then the eyes closed, and she fell asleep with her grasp tightening over Miss Vairin's hand.
               "Mr. Brent," said Mrs. Dashwood, coming close to me, "what do you think?"
               "She'll not live to see another morning," I answered.
               Her face took on a frightened air, but, endeavoring to repress it, she said, quickly, "Nonsense! the child's been talking this way for a week."
               "No matter; I think the end is near," I answered. "You'd better get Lucy to stay over-night. She understands sickness, and could be of help to you."
               "Very well, I will go down and ask her; but this is dreadfully shocking. Oh, oh! To think what we've come to!"
               She went from the room, and there were Fay and I alone with the solemn shadow that stole so imperceptibly towards us.
               "Had you not better have a wrap?" I asked. "You will take cold so exposed."
               She did not answer; but, discovering upon a chair her own white mantle, I threw it over her shoulders without more ado. The girl looked up at me, and smiled drearily.
               "Thank you, sir."
               The minutes went by; only that low, painful breathing was audible. Then came Lucy alone. Mrs. Dashwood had remained below to bid farewell to her guests. For some time we could hear carriage after carriage rolling away, a laugh or two, and then the bang of the hall-door. Mr. Vairin had returned alone, for Fay insisted upon remaining with the dying child.
               I hardly knew upon what course to decide: whether to go on to Wildmoor, or to stay at the manor until morning. Possibly they would need me. My simple little Nell, too, had become a picture of silent despair, and, venturing into the sick-room, had been half led, half carried therefrom in a burst of passionate weeping. The girl had never been face to face with death before. It terrified her. She had afterwards sobbed herself to sleep in Lady Ada's boudoir. So I concluded to keep watch for the night; went down to the library, selected a book to bear me company, lighted a cigar, and resigned myself to the dismal whisperings of my surroundings. Minute after minute dragged on. Occasionally I would stand at the window and survey that outside prospect, occasionally would rake up the embers or heap on the sparkling anthracite.
               There is no dreariness so painfully acute as that of waiting for dawn through the long hours of a watch by night; no silence so replete with voiceless woe as the silence of sitting beside a winter fireside and hearing the howl of the blast outside.
               I went up now and then for tidings of the sick. The child slept on; but once I found her awake, and speaking. When next I saw her, she needed voice no longer.
               The curtains still swung at the windows; the lamp was still shaded from her eyes. But she said,—
               "It's—all—dark! I am—not—afraid of the dark—not now. It can't hurt—me; for somebody—is holding—my—hand; tighter—hold it—tighter!"
               I fell asleep over my book afterwards with that strange cry, "tighter—tighter," dinning in my ears; did not awaken until through the unshuttered windows there looked the gray eyes of morning; then, astonished, got up, and went quickly to find Lucy.
               To my tap at the door there came no answer. I opened it and went in. A dreadful stillness pervaded the apartment. The bed was white and shrouded, with the outlines of a figure discernible upon it—a small figure that lay with upturned face and hands crossed.
               Isola was dead. No more need to cry out against the dark. No more need of being afraid of the night. That shining Madonna had led her by the hand up those hills of gold and amethyst where evermore light was plenteous.
               A withered rose lay upon the floor. I threw it out the window, and turned to look upon the dead; the most beautiful dead face I have ever looked upon; more beautiful in death than in life, with the far-away impress of babyhood hood come back to soften and purify it. No harshness marred cheek, brow, or lip.
               I felt no tinge of sorrow in meeting the coldness of that dead smile, but, thinking of David who arose from his fast asking, "Is it well with the child?" my lips involuntarily murmured, "It is well."
               There was no one in the hall outside. I went there to think quietly; walked up to a window at its extreme end, and whom should I find but Hope Vairin, with face grayer than the morning pressed against the panes?
               "What nonsense is this?" I cried, in a temper, seeing her still persisting in that folly of yesterday, still wearing that robe of the devil's own fashion, with its neckless and sleeveless cut. Her mantle lay on the floor. She was fairly blue with cold; her teeth chattering. I folded it about her, and, drawing her hand in my arm, led the way down to the library, where I had left a cheery fire.
               She was passive as a child; let me place her in a chair with feet resting upon a stool; leaned her head wearily back among the cushions; never opened her lips, or smiled, but only stared into the fire with that terrible blankness creeping deeper into her features,—that blankness of despair which made me angry and sorry by turns, for I owned not the right of spiriting it away.
               "Poor little Fay!" I said to her, once. "It is not alone the child's death that grieves you: it is something far greater, is it not?"
               The eyes that turned to me were full of anguish. Between a sob and a cry, she said, "Something far greater! yes! yes! Oh that I might tell you! Oh that I might!"
               "What is it, poor little Hope?" I pleaded.
               "No—no, no!" she said. "I cannot—I cannot."
               Her head fell into her hands then, and she wept bitterly. I could not make her out, however, nor comprehend what trouble could have crept across her path, obscuring all its brightness. It is terrible to see a woman in sorrow. I could not brave it, so started in quest of relief, and, stumbling upon Lucy in the hall, dispatched her to my poor weeping blossom.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               A SIMPLE white stone took its place in the churchyard. Under it sleeps Isola. Some weeks after the child's burial, I had occasion one night to return home unusually late, and thus, by a mere accident, became the recipient of knowledge that broke in startlingly upon my current of life.
               If I tell my story without preamble, perhaps it will prove a wiser and safer course; for, being a plain, matter-of-fact personage, I find myself at times (in regard to the attempting my share of this work) possessed of that inertia which, being come to rest, is altogether incapable of taking a stride on into further progress.
               It happened in this wise:
               When I dismounted from my horse one night at that very tardy hour, I myself led Raven to his stall in order to make him comfortable after our long tramp, then, locking the door, came away with all forethought of treading as noiselessly as possible. While crossing from stable-yard to court, I fancied a couple of figures were moving away towards the garden; their shadows fell dimly upon the large stone flags. As so unusual an occurrence could not fail to excite my wariness, I stood still (first taking a position behind an angle of the balcony), to see what would happen next.
               A dead silence.
               Then I crossed the lawn, so as to give myself a wider circuit (meanwhile remaining invisible to the intruders), and crept stealthily up through the garden at its extreme end. A line of trees, with bare arms, stood sentinel there; skulking along them, I was brought to a stand-still by hearing a subdued murmur of voices. One was familiar,—that of my groom. The female tones were not recognized. But the words that drifted on the clear, cold night-air bound me to the spot, a breathless listener!
               The woman said, "Martin, lad, lad, I would give my life that you had never lifted your arm against the young lord! And that it should be Master Herbert who was thought to have killed him; it sets me wild—wild!"
               "Sorry to hear yo goin' agen your own brother loike! Coom, lass, whenever I ha' seen yo, yo ha' done naught but heap abuse on me fur what's i' th' past. Coom; doant be a disparagin' o' me."
               "I want to talk with you to-night, Martin. Here I've been e'enamost eight month at the abbey, and we've never come to words yet. You always put me off until next time—next time; and next time has never yet come. It must be to-night; it shall be to-night, I tell you." She said this vehemently, stamping her foot.
               "That's as it may be," was the moody answer. "Happen as what do yo want to know?"
               "I want to know what bad thought got it into your head to dare the wicked, awful thing you did; what bad thought got it into your head to come back again to England when I was sure you'd left it for good. Look at me! It tells me here" (striking her breast), "and here" (touching her forehead), "where I shall bear the marks of your violence to my dying day, that you've made me a vile outcast—a poorer thing than a creeping worm. You've shut both yourself and me out from heaven. For didn't I swear a lie in court? Didn't I perjure my soul for your sake?"
               "Yo needn't ha' done it. They wouldna ha' foind me even if yo ha' told 'em yo knowed th'mon, an'that he wur your own brother, an'that he wur named Martin Doyle. Yo needn't ha' done it."
               "Martin," she said to him, "I'll tell you why I did it. God knows it was my love for you that carried me through. I mind me when I was a very little child, how there was nobody to care for me but you. You were a great, tall lad then, and you worked that hard for me, and got Dame Crancher to live at the cottage, to make me decent, and to show me things, and to make my clothes and all. If it hadn't been for you, dear lad" (her voice there was very low and sweet), "wouldn't they have put me in the poor-house with the other orphans, and wouldn't they have beaten me, and starved me? And then, when I grew up, and went out to service, and you married the lass, wasn't you always tender, and good, and father-like to me? Could I forget all your years of hard, drudging work, and the bit of schooling you let me pick up? Oh," and she ended in a sob, "don't you think my heart was fit to break when I stood in the court that day, and saw you looking at me above the crowd—you, with your eyes wild, and your face as white as marble, and your whole self saying to me, 'I am that murderer! I am the one you're hunting down. Have you no pity, no mercy? I thought you miles away, and yet, knowing the story of your wrongs, I found you out on the spot. That was a cruel, awful hurt—it was, oh, lad, lad!"
               "An' who's to blame?" he asked, fiercely. "Doant th' grand folk groind down th' poor? It wur th' young lord hissen who put me out o' soarts. I couldna see th' lass an' th' little child o' mine starve! Didna th' young lord ha' me put i' th' jail? I wur a poacher, says he. An' did-na my lass die o' grief loike? an' when I comed out, didna God-a-moighty tak th' child fro' me? An' then desperate-loike I goes to New Suth Wales, an' works steddy, an' a friend o' mine happened to die, an' gied me his money, an' I doant know what soart o' devil tempted me to take his name an' coom over to Old England.
               "Well, I tramped an' tramped 'cross country, an' I passed th' little old cottage. There wur loights in it, an' folk round th' hearth. A mon wur sittin' i' my place, holdin' his baby on his knee; he wur strokin' down her curls, a brushin' her little pinafore, an' then he clean took on, an' wur kissin' her little lips. God-a-moighty, it put me aw' out o' soarts! An' then th' ooman comed in. She wur a fair ooman, an' her sweet looks 'minded me o' th' lass whose troubles sunk her i' th' grave. I went up close to the winder fur a nigher peep. Th' ooman screamed an' hid her face, an' then th' mon comed to th' door, an' hollered to me to be off, or he'd kick me out.
               "An' this—an' this, wheer I ha' used to know happiness!
               "I gi'ed up quoite, an' went i' th' woods, an' tramped till I comed to th' inn; an' I wur that tired, I went in, an' sot down. I beant theer long when who aw should step in but th' young lord an' Measter Herbert. They wur nigh drunk wi' th' wine set afore 'em, an' putty soon got to quarrelin' an' to gi'en blows; i' th' scuffle, my master lets fall his dagger, an' I picks it up. Happen I doant know fur why, but I picks it up aw th' same. An' theer after makin' friends agen, they rides off, wi' a promise to fetch up th' next neet at th' stile.
               "Theer's na use a' goin' o'er aw I sed to mysen afore th' time. But I took care to be theer. Th' young lord wur a tyin' his horse to th' post, an' a whistlin', an' th' moon wur a comin' up. Then th' devils wur at me at sight o' him. A fire burned loike i' my head an' my boddy. It smoked i' my veins, an' I couldna breathe hardly. I hid behind a stump, an' waited, an' waited, but Measter Herbert didna coom. An' my lord wur a rippin' out his curses, an' a swearin' as I heerd him swear long years afore. I bided my toime, an' then I wur behind him; a quick, a moighty dig i' his back through to th' heart, an' he fell down sudden-loike.
               "Then wur my revenge.
               "I put my knee on his breast, an' looked him i' th' bad face, an' says I to him, 'D—n yo, I'm coom to send yo to h—l!'
               "Then I stabs him agen.
               "An' th' moon made sich a glare o' white o'er him, an' he screams out, 'Fur th' lo'e o' heaven, doant kill me!' an' then a wild, dyin' look cooms i' his eyes, an' he wur dead.
               "Hows'ever, yo know th' rest, wench,—how they foind him theer aw drippin' wi' blood, an' wi' Measter Herbert's dagger aside him, an' then th' murder wur fixed on him. I hid mysen i' th' woods, till by one thing an' th' other I coom to heer tell o' th' trial. An' then, lass, when I seed yo faint-loike at soight o' me, I thought if I told yo how it aw happened yo wouldna be willin' to go agen your brother; an' so I comed to yo, but yo only cursed me, an' a'most swore to clear Measter Herbert. Then I wur mad, an' struck yo th' lick; but happen as how nowt wur foind out agen me. An' then I couldna ha' th' spirit to work; but fur these three years tramped an' tramped till I wur nigh broke doun, doin' a bit o' work heer an' theer, an' bein' sick an' loike to die. Then I comed across Mr. Breant; an' he wur that koind thet it set me to thinkin' o' aw my trials, an' thet if God-a-moighty had made more folk loike him, th' world wouldna be so full o' crime."
               As he ceased speaking, the voice of the woman rang sharply out upon the stillness of night:
               "I wish to Heaven you'd kept away from him! Didn't you swear to quit the country? Then why are you here to torture my very soul? Haven't you done me enough injury? That day I first saw you in the abbey garden, I felt as if I had seen a ghost, Martin; for between you and me always comes the ghost of that murdered man. When will it be quiet in the grave? Oh, misery, misery! I wish I was dead!"
               "Happen as yo doant feel th' half thet I do; but i' my soul I hates 'em so, I'd be bound to do th' same aw agen. I'd loike to see th' last o' 'em by th' name o' Chester ha' a moighty hurt, God-a-moighty knows I would!"
               "And is that poor young gentleman to bear this crime always? You don't know what a good, grand gentleman he is. I feel——"
               "Folk did say as how yo lo'ed him, Patty; folk sed as how he wur yo're sweetheart. An' it made my blood boil aw o'er to hear 'em a goin' on 'bout yo happen na honest lass ought to let hersen be talked 'bout."
               "Folk lied," said the girl, bitterly. "I loved him! Yes, I say it boldly, because it is my pride to love him. But I was true to myself, Martin, and he honored me for it."
               "I am glad on't, lass, hearty glad on't."
               "But how is this to end?" continued she, wildly. "Think, think that Miss Hope is nigh breaking her heart about Mr. Bertie, and Mr. Vairin will never as much as let him put a foot in the abbey. He has a hard, cruel nature, has Mr. Vairin, and my poor young lady 'll fret herself to death. She just worships Mr. Bertie, and I can see her growing thinner and grieving more and more as the days go by. How will it—how can it all end, Martin?"
               "I doant know," he answered, doggedly. "Yo'll ne'er tell, Patty? Yo wouldna see me swing fur't, would yo now?"
               "Oh, no, no, no!" she shuddered forth; and then her sobs came, short, quick, and gasping.
               The man endeavored to give her some consolation; but it was administered clumsily enough, and before long I found myself alone, with pulse beating high, and wonderment quickened into new vigor at the mere thought of that extraordinary revelation made in my hearing.
               In an awkward strain I thought to myself, Is this Destiny weaving her fetters about me? Am I doomed to be an instrument in the hands of God's justice? Who can tell?
               There was a sudden crackling of a twig along the gravelled path. I stepped forward, expecting to confront some new intruder, but no one was visible; and, after waiting expectantly, no further sound struck my ear.
               So I gathered together my scattered senses, and as I threw myself afterwards on my bed, and endeavored to fall asleep, I wondered at the strange combination of chances which had thrown Martin Cross in my path. I thought of my quondam enemy—Poacher Bill; of the rheumatic illness of our old groom—a result brought about by the chasing aforesaid enemy through bog and fen; the consequent supplying of his place with the stranger whom he had encountered at L—— Station; the arrival, upon the same night, of my father's boyhood friend, and, as it ultimately proved, the presence in his family, as an attendant, of Patty Doyle,—that young person whose testimony at the trial of Herbert Chester had gone to secure him from the hangman.
               As I turned over in my thoughts these many occurrences, I could not help asking, "What next?" If any one of the links of this fatal chain of circumstances had been omitted, what a different story I should have to narrate!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               "WHAT next?—what next?" was the question that throughout the day following came uppermost in mind. In every routine of duty, in every voice that spoke, in every face that looked into mine, I saw and heard only the momentous novelty of that query.
               With the facts of the case plain before me, I scarcely could advise myself upon a correct proceeding; but after an hour's weighty deliberation I concluded to run up to London in the course of the week, state the matter to Lord Chester himself, and advise with him as to what had best be ventured upon.
               In the mean while I was in a frame of mind calculated to settle itself upon nothing of moment; found myself in everybody's way; found myself groping in the dark, with naught but vain commentations to trip up upon.
               It was probably four o'clock in the afternoon when I went from the house, determined for a few hours to rid myself of vexing, immature thought, to roam at will, and feel myself once again an unfettered man. Ignoring the road, I pushed on across the moor. Here and there a rock loomed up from amidst the embrowned mass. Vales and hollows at long intervals varied the expanse of heath; these were sere and bleak enough then, but in summer they luxuriate in shrubs, brush, and undergrowth.
               I walked along in the face of a whistling wind. Avoiding the village, I sauntered on until my feet traversed a bridge spanning the mill-stream; then, turning into a lane, followed its windings for a mile or so. The trees and bushes were all barren. Winds rattled their dry branches scathingly. In summer that spot was a wilderness of beauty; and when the nuts ripened in autumn, and berries were waving their red snoods in signal of maturity, nature owned no lovelier haunt.
               Growing tired finally, I retraced my steps homeward, and, by dint of hasty strides, succeeded in measuring the ground at long intervals, and was brought suddenly face to face with a group of three persons. It was just before dark. The waning light illuminated the scene with sickly pallor. The wide expanse of moor, the low, fretful moan of sea, the stars blinking overhead, the old abbey in the distance, the figures in excited attitude, all completed a picture strange and wild. One man had grasped another by the throat, and was shaking him roughly. The remaining figure, that of a woman, stood rather apart.
               I did not look at her, but, laying my hand on the man's shoulder, addressed him sharply.
               At this, desisting from his brutality, he turned full upon me. To my astonishment, I found that it was a gentleman with whom I had to deal. The face that flashed so angrily into mine was handsome, but somewhat attenuated, as if from recent illness; the form tall, erect, and noble.
               "I beg your pardon, sir!" I exclaimed; "but if this fellow" (pointing to Martin Cross, who was, indeed, the unfortunate lout so brusquely throttled),—"if this fellow has done you a wrong, leave it to me to settle with him. He is in my service, and I would dispense with his being handled after that fashion."
               "You're welcome to give him a thrashing," he returned, with temper. His hand clinched, and, striding up to my groom, he continued, authoritatively, "If you meddle with my affairs, sirrah, bear the consequences. Remember, I show no mercy another time!"
               He turned then towards the woman. It was Fay, with countenance pale and distressed. The large, soft eyes were humid in tears.
               "Poor little thing!" he said, tenderly; "what do you not bear for my sake? I must go now, or I shall be tempted to chastise the wretch soundly! Come, Hope, let me see you safe home."
               "No," answered she, quietly. "I must stay a moment. Do you go, Bertie! If I remain, it is for a purpose."
               He bounded away then, leaving her motionless, save that her eyes followed his figure with troubled gaze.
               Martin shuffled up close to me, and almost hissed in my ear, "She lo'es him well, mester; he thet's na fitten to wipe her shoon!"
               The man had never appeared in such guise as on that night. His weather-beaten visage bore a dark flush; his eyes gleamed from beneath their shaggy brows with an expression of malice. He stood alternately regarding Miss Vairin and myself. A blaze of triumph unexpectedly lighted up his features, and then he hissed again in my ear, "Yo doan't know th' genelman, mester, do yo?"
               I motioned him away, however, with an angry frown: his obtrusiveness savored of presumption; and, turning towards the young lady, I said something that betokened a vague pity or regret for her evident distress. At my words she sank down upon a rocky projection that, overgrown with moss, darkened the heather. It cut me to the soul to see her so drooping. There was no touch of the old defiant spirit, no irony of the red lips,—a figure with clasped hands and bowed head. I could rather have borne her sting of words,—a cut from her dainty riding-whip. "Child," I said, "what is it that brings you away from your father's house? Come; you must not stay in the cold!"
               She did not raise her head, but, drawing a long breath, faltered, "I know what you think of me; don't, don't be hard till I explain. You ought—to know now; you—must know!"
               There was a pause.
               "He is—no, no, I cannot,—I cannot!" She covered her face with both hands, shuddering and trembling.
               "Poor Fay! do not distress yourself. Come away from this place; come home;—do you hear?"
               The hands dropped to her side, and, rising, she cried, pointing to Martin, "But you must listen first! He knows all the miserable story,—let him tell it!"
               The man darted a look of wonderment at her, and then she called again in tones that grated harshly on the air, "Tell him, I say; tell your master all!"
               "Stop a moment!" said I. "Miss Vairin, do you think it will benefit you, this taking me into your confidence? You've seen reason, heretofore, to thrust me far enough from it. If so, I will gladly hear what is to be told, through motives arising purely from a desire to serve you."
               "Yes, Mr. Brent, you can help me if you will; you can tell me what to do, and you must hear first the story of our wretched lives."
               She walked away, and stood at some distance. My eyes followed the little, drooping figure, and I was only recalled to the exigencies of my position by the voice of Martin Cross breaking harshly upon my musings:
               "Th' young leddy's right, mester; she doan't want na one's ill thought. She doan't know wot yo mought think o' her. I lived theer, sur, nigh 'em aw, an' I knows aw 'bout it!"
               "Quick with what you're saying, then!" cried I, in a jealous fury.
               He came closer, his face, as it neared mine, leering with a strange, mocking grimace; his voice fell to a whisper:
               "Mester, I ha' not had my eyes fur nowt sence I comed heer. An' mony's th' hour I'd ha' told yo o' it; but yo wur thet proud, sur, yo wouldna ha' listened. Bein' as I knowed 'bout that un theer, I said t'wur na use."
               He looked towards me with a glance so triumphant, my very teeth clinched.
               "He be th' leddy's sweetheart, sur, as her feyther won't let coom nigh her; fur why, mester? He be thet same Mr. Herbert Chester as yo asked 'bout when I first comed heer; an' Mr. Vairin doan't know nowt 'bout his comin' back agen; but th' leddy's foind o' him, an' he be a tryin' to get agen her feyther's good will."
               It required a mighty effort to refrain from clutching the fellow fast and throwing the crime in his teeth; but, knowing well that it would have been all up with me then, knowing that he could effectually make good an escape, I cloaked my rage under pretense of listening, and bade him go on.
               "Thet's aw, mester!" he exclaimed. "Theer's nowt more!"
               That was all? It was enough; the inference was clear that the young fellow would be eventually righted in sight of the world, but at such a time I might be pardoned the desire to snatch my peerless Fay from her destiny. A selfish passion bore tumultuously down upon me then, and it gave me a shock to think of her as united to one upon whom even that suspicion of crime had once darkly rested. It mattered not to me then his youth, his handsome person, his fine qualities of heart and mind: my love for her blinded me, and I knew him only as my open and dangerous rival. Later, reason guided my course; but at that moment a storm of anger and passion raged in my soul, and as I went up to her, and she spoke, with her sweet, mysterious eyes searching mine, I marveled at myself that I could look down upon her so quietly, and make no sign of that wondrous love surging within.
               "You have heard——" faltered she.
               "Yes, I know all."
               "Tell me—what you—you think, what you advise." The voice was broken, the words uttered faintly.
               And she asked my counsel for this—this! The lips so scornfully resisting my will, my argument, could quiver, grow sweet and plaintive, for him! This girl was kind, was fond. Her bright, coquettish way, her pleasant voice, the numberless graces shining upon her woman's brow,—these were well to dream over at times.
               "Tell me what you think, what you advise," the voice again repeated.
               Not yet could she be made aware that I had unwittingly discovered the thread unraveling the Chester mystery; it has been my wisdom to trust few men with matters of secret nature, therefore fewer women. In fact, I hardly knew what to say to her.
               "You had better adhere to your father's wishes," at last I managed to blurt out; "he is your best counselor, and after awhile you will find that things are taking the right course."
               "Then you do not believe Bertie innocent," she exclaimed, sharply, starting from the rock.
               "Herbert Chester you mean, I presume! Yes, I believe him innocent, so far as I can judge. But I would tell my own sister as I tell you. It would be far better to have done with these clandestine meetings, and to wait patiently the tide of events. The obedience of daughter to father is a bright jewel in one's garland of youth!"
               "Are you a man of stone? And is this the counsel you give? Never, never! He is to me as no other being in the world. Do you hear?" she reiterated. "I love him so that to give him up would break my heart!"
               "I know it; but, as I have said, I would advise my sister thus, and she is dear to me, very."
               "You would have her even turn from her own brother, I suppose!"
               "What do you mean, silly girl?"
               "Nothing, nothing," she answered, mockingly.
               In her excitement her red hood had fallen off, disclosing a countenance that bore upon it tokens of extreme agitation.
               "This is your family honor, is it? This is your Christianity? But I will not pattern after good examples. I, at least, will be true."
               "Miss Vairin," I said, "you had better allow me the pleasure of accompanying you home. We two never gain anything from argument excepting dislike and anger."
               "That is it, sir," she answered; "dislike and anger! Be sure mine is meted out in equal measure; your dislike of me is cordially returned. Yes, I have long regarded you as my bitterest enemy!"
               She enjoyed my mood; for, no doubt marking my face crimson with her taunts, the sight called into action that clear, ironical laugh with which she said, "I own my weakness in calling upon you for advice. But I knew you from the first; a natural instinct warned me from Lord Ogre! The weakness to trust you was never a failing of mine, be assured!"
               She continued, excitedly, "I might have known better! Fool, fool, to have trusted! And you've wrenched my secret from me; why, every lout in the village will stare at us open-mouthed!"
               The lightning in her gaze might have scathed me, so angry had she become, as she turned to go.
               "Wait," said I. "You must not leave me, as I too have something to tell. Wait, while I think it over."
               She resumed her seat on the heather-grown rock. But "thinking it over" revealed to me the folly of taking a woman into confidence.
               
               Besides, the selfishness of my affection clamored for its idol, and could not yet have borne to see her happy in that other love.
               She sat, cold, rigid as a sculptured form. It was not till I reached her side that, lifting up her head, she stared at me unflinchingly.
               "Miss Vairin," I stammered, "do me the justice to believe my friendship."
               "Sir," said she, with hauteur, "your professions of friendship are not what I am waiting for."
               "But listen to one who entertains a regard for you, spite of your assertions to the contrary. You will not brook reproof; that, certainly, I have no notion of forcing upon you. But you are too ready to interpret my every word into such; too ready to believe my every gesture proof of a carping, caviling nature. Is this right, I say?"
               "It is late in the day, sir, to question the right or wrong of my conduct!"
               "Still, young lady, I trust you will let me perform some service for you, that I may convince you of the sincerity of my friendship."
               "Mr. Brent, it is unnecessary to repeat that that is impossible."
               "Very well; I am sorry—I regret——"
               "You need not," retorted she. "I understand you now. Once, for mere form's sake, I pretended to some regard for you as my father's friend; but I do not intend to belie myself any longer. The deception is rather more than one is equal to, under existing circumstances. You may doff your hypocrisy now, and let the world know we bear only hatred for each other."
               I could feel the flame of indignation kindling in my bosom. The girl, drawing her hood to its place, rose, and motioned with her hand while exclaiming, "You've wrung my secret from me; now go! I'm able to find my way alone."
               I stepped aside, and she went on with mien cold and indignant. When the red cloak and hood had disappeared from sight, and a barrier of hills was between us, I took a turn or two over the moorland, and then kept on towards home.
               These perpetual scenes of discord must then and there come to a termination, I resolved; but I pronounced it rather a singular coincidence that a girl who was all gentleness towards others should take no pains to conceal her antipathy for me, and should be ever on the alert to resent what she chose to term my authoritative manner and bearing. It would be worse than useless to assert that a man of my age should have better understood how to bridle his emotions; that I should have learned to define my position as well as hers, and should have comprehended a fact patent to my own eyes,—namely, that little Fay could never be won as my wife.
               It was plain to me that I had committed man's usual folly,—vowing at morn to drive her from my heart, greeting her at eventide as its chosen queen. I had overstepped all my barriers, broken down all those resolutions which native pride wrings from the soul during its hour of anguish and humiliation. What hope could I have of myself for the future? She was lost to me as much as if the roses were blooming over her grave! Nay, more; for if she were lying white and cold at my feet, I could kiss the clods that covered her, could throw my seeking arms around the little mound, and feel the violets pulsing with new life at her lover's touch.
               Ay, if she were dead before me!
               But destiny had so woven it that I should place her in her lost love's arms. One can smile when one is going his way to the executioner, perhaps. The sun shines, the clouds are blue, no matter how much of desolation there is to wring the world.
               It was traced out plainly,—that happy future of hers, which should be a result of my instrumentality.
               Herbert Chester would be recognized as a man defrauded of his birthright, honor, and integrity.
               He would be restored to his family, his friends, his position in society. He would be a leader among them all; the world would fawn at his feet. And that was the fate from which Mr. Vairin (deeming the young fellow guilty) desired to rescue Fay.
               No need for further dread! No need for the grim ogre to carry off his enchanted princess!
               
               She could welcome her fairy prince in triumph; she could rest securely upon his bosom, and stay her heart for all time upon the glory of his love.
               I made no resolutions, raised no barriers; experiencing the futility of promises so fragile, I rather avoided the subject altogether, and peered only into that story dark with crime. I essayed to regard myself merely as a calm spectator in the enactment of the tragedy, and looked anxiously forward to the approach of the ensuing day (which I resolved should discover me on my route to London), as to the raising of the curtain upon the final and critical act of the drama.
               But I went not to London that day, nor the day following, nor for two months to come. A strange fatality seemed dogging my footsteps; a series of mischances overturned my ventures for the future, and rendered me powerless to do aught towards a furtherance of my plans.
               I have come to look back upon that season of tumult with emotions of gratitude; with a quiet thankfulness towards the Maker who taught me my lesson of resignation so grandly. It has shown me the folly, the error, of those frets, those angry fumes with fate; it has revealed to me the wisdom of bowing to the yoke, the glory of passing submissively under the rod. We writhe, we struggle, when ensnared in the tangled network; and to what purpose? We must, whether we will or not, work out our lives as God sees fit to ordain them. We deem some things in our human lot hard and unjust, and we strive to alter them into moulds that best suit our will and purposes. This is because we may only look into the future with mortal eyes, we may only hear its distant music with mortal ears, and we are impatient to turn the leaves of that unknown volume with eager, trembling fingers.
               But all changes in God's own good time.
               And when we put off mortality, and our glorified bodies take on immortality, we see all things in a fair, pure vision, and wonder at the moral blindness which had led us to struggle with sorrow!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Alas!
                           If once or twice I let my heart escape
                           This night, remember, where hearts slip and fall
                           They break beside."
                        
                     
                     Aurora Floyd.
                  
               
               A LONG time it has been since I have written a line in my journal; and how it is possible that I can enter upon the task this morning becomes a matter of astonishment to me indeed.
               Yesterday was a day of event to us all.
               It is the middle of April now, and there is nothing scarcely to be seen on the moorlands but falls of sleet and driving rain; the prospect is a dreary one.
               Joel says, though, by way of consolation, that in a few weeks fine weather will burst upon us like a vision. Oh, I do hope so, if for naught else but to see the young crocuses lifting their heads to the sun-god.
               As I sat, last night, over a bit of sewing, Janet came in quickly. She was pale, and her lips moved with nervous motion.
               "There's been an accident just below, Miss Hope. Mr. Geoffrey Brent's been thrown a'most at the gate, and they're bringin' him in."
               I looked at her, only vaguely seeing that she was moving from the room; but her changed voice and her trembling lips frightened me more than those words. It seemed as if she were keeping something back.
               "What is it?" I cried, holding her tight by the apron. "Tell me at once! Is—is he—killed?"
               "No, no; but his horse kicked him as he lay on the ground, and they think he can't live."
               Oh, my journal, how do we bear to hear such words! Looking in the face before me that was white with sympathy, I felt that I must hold down my terror.
               
               The men came tramping through the hall, bearing their burden.
               Kneeling, crouching in the firelight, I heard them pause at the door of my room. It opened and closed.
               I do not know how long I lay there on the floor with a cold, dumb agony closing around me; but it must have been hours that passed when my old nurse came in and lifted me on my feet.
               "The doctor says it's not so bad, Miss Hope darlin'; that, with good nursin', he'll soon be out o' danger."
               The clock struck for eleven.
               "One o' the men said he'd go and fetch Miss Brent," continued Janet. "It might a'most frighten her to death comin' so sudden-like."
               "Let me tell her," I said quickly, between painful breaths. "I will go over to Wildmoor myself. Now, don't look cross, and say 'no' so sharply, for I will get Joel and ride over at once. It is what—what he would wish."
               We went together into the room where lay the sufferer.
               There was the ghastly face with linen bandages all about it. He was not conscious, they said, and only faint, inaudible moans came to tell that life was not extinct.
               I could not bear the horror of it, so slipped away to quiet the throbbing of my temples before starting upon my mission.
               In probably a half-hour, Joel and I were pushing along the road. It was drizzling a fine mist. We did not slacken rein until reaching the avenue that led in from the park grounds; there dismounting, I went on alone to the piazza.
               The night was dark, but those old stone lions seemed bristling in defiance. How the silence oppressed me!
               Lights shone from the drawing-room. I raised the knocker and struck it boldly; but, no one coming in response, tried the door. It yielded to my effort, and I kept on into the drawing-room, where, at its farther end, the sight of flowing drapery emboldened me to exclaim, "Miss Lucy!"
               A face turned towards me which was not that of her I sought; a face whose beauty is of that stately patrician order seemingly innate; complexion, brilliant; the lustre of dark-blue eyes, and a glory of golden hair. It was then glistening in the meshes of a silken net of the same beautiful hue, and, as the lady moved her head, shone by the lamplight with radiant gleams. She held an Indian screen before her face, but, upon perceiving me, rose and tossed it on the table.
               A regal woman, after the old Saxon style of Scott's Rowena. The lofty carriage of head revealed the pride of nature beneath; her features are lovely, but icy cold, and rigid as marble, though softened somewhat and refined into tones of girlish grace. The eyes are magnificent,—cool and hard, but frank; the mouth is scornful. The young lady's countenance possesses a character peculiarly its own.
               "No doubt you think it singular," I explained, "this intrusion at so late an hour." She listened to my account of the accident with a stare of well-bred surprise that might have become a grand duchess.
               "Miss Brent has retired," said she, coldly. A glow crept over the pink of her cheek as she moved aside nearer the fire.
               Spite of her chilly manner, there was something about the young lady which attracted me wonderfully. A ring of true metal clinked in the tones of her low, clear voice; and, though her eyes swept me harshly, I fancied there was truth away down in their depths for any accepting the responsibility of unveiling it.
               "I should think," I exclaimed, "that Miss Brent would not mind being disturbed at such a time."
               "I really don't know what ought to be done," she replied, in softer manner. "My cousin had suffered throughout the day from a violent headache; a moment ago, she had fallen asleep for the first time, and as in her present condition she could be of no possible service, I think it best to let her remain in ignorance of what has occurred until the morning."
               "I'm sorry," I said, "but am sure I can trust that you will tell Miss Lucy without causing her unnecessary anxiety. You are Miss Buddington, are you not?"
               She bestowed upon me a quick, searching glance; her mouth almost curved into a smile, but, concluding at the last to adopt a sterner course, it gathered up into austerity its rose-leaf corners, merely answering, "Yes; I am Miss Buddington."
               "The doctor says there is no real danger; but I can trust you, I know. I wish you good-evening." And I swept from her side with as haughty a grace as Miss Buddington of Buddington Court could herself have displayed.
               "Stay! One moment." She was beside me before the door was gained. "How do you know you can trust me? No one ever said that much before. It is the world's philosophy to place faith in neither man nor woman. How do you make sure that I am to be trusted?"
               "Oh," I said, "by hearing your voice, or looking into your eyes. The one speaks to my ear, the other to my heart!"
               "And you—a mere child—do you pretend to read human nature aright? Are you never deceived?"
               "Oh, often; once I made the miserable mistake of calling an esteemed friend my bitterest enemy, and shouldn't wonder if I stumbled in the same manner again."
               "Are you not Hope Vairin?"
               "I am."
               She extended her hand. "I think I shall like you; you may depend upon me. Good-night."
               
               A month has slipped away.
               I will pass over the days that followed in tedious succession: days of illness, days of convalescence. For weeks it seemed as if death would gain the mastery, and the strong man raved and struggled with his foe in a way pitiful to see. All the sorrow I bore in my heart was not for him alone. There were other burdens I had to bear unflinchingly—trouble that was coming for poor papa and myself. But I stifled it at that time somewhat, and will forbear yet to tell you of it, journal dear.
               Miss Brent proved an assiduous nurse; and with Janet for aid-de-camp, no wonder was it the invalid thrived rapidly. I had vacated my dearly-loved sanctum for his accommodation, and, in the interim, taken possession of one of those drear, sombre, upper apartments. I am positive, though, I could not have closed my eyes one half-minute of the night had not Janet volunteered to sleep upon an impromptu pallet before the hearth; no doubt, too, she often played me the trick good nurses play naughty children,—viz., cajoled me into dropping asleep, and then crept softly away on tiptoe, leaving it to good fortune that I did not awake and frighten myself into convulsions at the darkness and solitude. Not being a child, of course it is presupposed that I would not have been guilty of such weakness; being a young lady whose dignity would deem itself compromised by such procedure, I must of course disown such behavior boldly. But, here, it puzzles me to think why school-girls are so oblivious of their own welfare as to be ever dreaming of that fair young-ladyhood dawning for them in the future.
               I was far gayer and lighter-hearted when deep amid my studies,—a slave to the gong, the slate, and the book. How we build air-castles (before reaching the longed-for goal), that are to be ever untenanted except by bright thoughts and brighter smiles; a light word, a jest, a ring, a flower, sometimes a broken vow or two, perhaps a broken heart! And as each stride taken by time brings us nearer the airy façades, we see them vanish before us. It was merely a palace of dreams raised from the fabric of a fancy; but youth carries with its joy, its earnestness, material sufficient to raise the structure; youth that has spent so many hopes, so many visions, so many tears upon this worthless thing which a breath from the world dissolves into nothing!
               Yet who would exist without his dream, his palace?
               Not I, for one! Do not thrust it from you, bright girl. It is your oasis in Life's sterile waste; it is your rose in Life's crown of thorns. If we keep it pure, fresh with dew from our young hearts, though our cheeks may blanch, and hair whiten, our steps grow feeble and tottering. I believe we will take, ay, to the utmost verge of the grave, a charm and a treasure that no gold can buy.
               To return to my subject, and ignore philosophy in all mild forms. This is my resolution, dear journal.
               
               Mr. Brent had so far recovered that he was in a fair way of being deluged by an inflow of cousins; for on a visit to Wildmoor were three members of the Buddington family: Miss Maud, a brother Guy, and Miss Isabel Hightower, cousin to the aforesaid young lady and gentleman.
               Janet had mounted guard over the sick-room, and, though the fortress was attacked in every vulnerable point, not a whit did she yield, but resolutely kept the cousins at bay. Miss Buddington manifested quiet nonchalance; once only did she deign to pause at the abbey gate and ask after the patient. She allowed one rarely a glimpse of her beauty, remaining at Wildmoor almost a recluse. My old nurse was never called upon to indulge any feat of arms, or resort to any stratagem, or parry any impertinent thrust, or trip up any unwary step, in her regard. But towards Miss Hightower, as towards a line of the enemy principally noticeable for "big guns," she preserved an untiring watch. And there was need. The young lady reconnoitered the ground before making any advances; and then she would skirmish unexpectedly into the very midst of the defenses,—sometimes capturing quantities of ammunition and almost routing the enemy. But when her attempts were rewarded by failure, she would unhesitatingly display the "big guns," and then almost bring Janet to terms through the softness of the latter's kind heart.
               These weapons mainly consisted of a dulcet pleading voice, eyes melting into tears, tears checking up in sobs, sobs winding into threatenings of hysterics, and hysterics resulting in a pleasant laugh; and then (provided my old dear had not given in) the programme was begun all over again, invariably terminating in the same manner. But it was not in Janet's nature to yield to that young lady. So, being myself exceedingly impressed by the babyish voice pleading to see "Cousin Geoffrey," I managed, once, to inveigle our staunch sentinel into the temptation of a cup of old Bohea to be partaken of in the gloom of the dining-room. While she was innocently imbibing the herb, I slipped Miss Isabel into the apartment where Mr. Brent was, for the first, reclining in an arm-chair. He was very white and gaunt. His sister smiled knowingly when she detected the intruder, but the low, grave voice murmuring, "I am glad you have come," and the eager "Cousin Geoffrey!" told me more than Miss Lucy's quiet smile.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "The same land
                        Should not contain us. Oceans should divide us
                        With barriers of constant tempests—such
                        As mariners durst not tempt."
                     
                  
               
               YESTERDAY was a clear, sunlit afternoon,—the May bright upon all of earth's fairness. I had scarcely dreamed a day could have been so perfect. The air is still cool and chill, but there is barely wind enough to stir those crowns upon the tree-tops.
               It was the last day of Mr. Brent's sojourn at the abbey. He is far from strong yet, but sufficiently recovered to venture out upon the road. Miss Lucy left us a week ago, making at odd times a journey back again for a sight of the invalid. He has become quite domesticated according to our régime; with papa, growing into the most selfish, most indefatigable of chess-players. Janet, too, was loth to see him depart. For, by virtue of her authority on all mooted questions of diet, digestion, etc., she has held many a consultation with the doctor upon the subject; and being chiefly in her element when there is a prospect of appetite to be overruled by discretion, has enjoyed a full swing in her favorite divertisement of "dieting the convalescent."
               I—well, no matter. I am only a woman, and torture my woman's heart as do others of our sex, no doubt.
               It was his last day, as I have said, and a bright, a golden day. Coming in from a walk, papa met me on the porch, and bade me go on to the study, where Mr. Brent was waiting to be entertained.
               
               I felt shy of him, now that he was growing strong again, for my conscience whispered that I had behaved rather badly to him one afternoon when we had met on the moor. He held a book open, but his eyes were riveted upon the out-door prospect.
               "What were you doing?" he asked.
               "Nothing," I said, and my gaze fell before the critical sweep of his.
               "The tokens of spring are plentiful, are they not?"
               "Yes, sir." I sat down on an ottoman at some distance from him.
               He looked at me with one hand shading his eyes.
               "Fay, do you know I think sometimes you are afraid of me?—and then again that you are too thoroughly indifferent to entertain any sentiment of the like whatever? Now, a certain evening not ages ago, I was at a loss to call by name the feeling with which you evidently regarded me. How is it?"
               The blood burned guiltily in my cheeks at the mere recollection. How was it, indeed?
               "I was angry at the time, Mr. Brent. I didn't mean all that I said. Will you overlook those hasty speeches?"
               He held out his hand. "And once, you refused to let me be your friend, Fay. Will you not forget old scores, and accede to a code of friendship—a bond between us two?"
               "First, sir, grant my request."
               "No, my claim is prior. Promise to consent."
               "Then I will not be your friend."
               "Then I will neither excuse nor overlook ill temper."
               "Very well, sir."
               "Just as you please, miss." And he laughed, shrugging his shoulders. Papa came in, settled himself in an armchair, and soon fell fast asleep.
               "Shall I read to you?" asked Mr. Brent, taking up his book again.
               "It is poetry, is it not?" I asked.
               "Yes, but a miscellaneous collection. Here is Coleridge's Ancient Mariner; to my taste precisely. Will you hear it?"
               Rarely have I heard a voice to equal his in depth and richness of volume. Now low, grave, and tender as the notes of an organ when it is played upon in a minor key, then swelling in sound and grandeur until it stirs me like a bugle-cry, I feel my whole nature uprise in an enthusiasm to do the work of life nobly, and merit some of its many prizes held towards us as children of mortals.
               
                  
                     "An orphan's curse would drag to hell
                     A spirit from on high;
                     But oh! more terrible than that
                     Is the curse in a dead man's eye!
                     Seven days, seven nights, I saw that curse,
                     And yet I could not die!"
                  
               
               What a wonderful creation of the brain is portrayed in this,—Coleridge's Rime! The picture came vividly before me; the picture of that ancient mariner with "long gray beard, and glittering eye;" doomed to pass the hours of night in telling his ghastly story; flitting from land to land in search of him who needs must listen till his heart burns in fear and agony: 
                     
                        "Farewell, farewell! but this I tell
                        To thee, thou wedding guest!
                        He prayeth well, who loveth well
                        Both man, and bird, and beast.
                        He prayeth best, who loveth best
                        All things both great and small;
                        For the dear God who loveth us,
                        He made and loveth all."
                     
                  
               
               After a silence of lengthened duration, Mr. Brent inquired whether I were fond of reading, and, if so, did I fancy poetry.
               "At times, sir," I answered, "and in exceptional moods only."
               "I would like to know the character of aforesaid moods, Fay. Will you not enlighten me?"
               And I told him that one was when I became depressed in spirits, or, in common parlance, when laboring under "a fit of the vapors." Then, and then only, could poetry strike the true chord in my nature.
               "And," I added, "it must be of that stirring power whose tone awakens a fire in my brain, and darts a tingle through every vein and nerve. I cannot, then, brook the tame, sluggish ballad, or four-lined stanza with measure to be scanned at a glance. No; Tasso is the solace I yield my soul. Or Byron, with the flaming banners of genius, marches to the front, and I follow on, passing into the thickest of the fight. Ah, he is a glorious being!"
               With this conclusion, I reached from the book-shelves Childe Harold, and, opening it at Canto III., begged my companion to read it for my benefit.
               The sunbeams were lessening across the garden; and, watching them from my station opposite the window, it seemed as if they were living things sporting before the fancy. I soon, however, forgot aught else in the grandeur and passion of the theme, giving heed to my reader alone. The gay Belgian capital, all in revelry steeped; the later night when "rider and horse,—friend, foe," are "in one red burial blent."
               Then, in low, tremulous cadence he came to the stanza, 
                     
                        "I have not loved the world, nor the world me,—
                        But let us part fair foes; I do believe,
                        Though I have found them not, that there may be
                        Words which are things,—hopes which will not deceive,
                        And virtues which are merciful, nor weave
                        Snares for the failing; I would also deem
                        O'er others' griefs that some sincerely grieve;
                        That two, or one, are almost what they seem,—
                        That goodness is no name, and happiness no dream."
                     
                  
               
               Then, tossing the book on the table, he lay back in his chair as if exhausted.
               With my head resting on my hand, I was thinking, bitterly perhaps, of that happiness which is no dream, when his voice roused me from my fancy, saying, "Byron was an utter misanthrope; else would he have written thus? And what a pity that a man of so wonderful genius should combine with it a soul wedded to sin!"
               I replied that he could not well have cultivated other character than that of the misanthrope,—repaying the world in its own coin, laugh for laugh, scorn for scorn; also, that he had good reason to doubt those "virtues which are merciful," and that "weave not snares for the failing."
               "Do you doubt them?" Mr. Brent asked.
               I answered that I did; that in his own person I had seen virtue exemplified stern and rigorous, allied to justice even as forbidding in exterior.
               We were soon in a fair way to renew our course of disputation.
               "You perceive," I laughingly remonstrated, "how utterly futile would be the thought of our becoming friends. When you put me in a passion for nothing at all, just think how absurd such a friendship would prove."
               "You are right, Miss Vairin. You can never be my friend. I will ask it no more."
               I moved uneasily in my chair, touched by a sadness in his voice, and, for the lack of something wiser to say, suggested that twilight was coming on. No answer.
               Then I ventured to remark that the weather was changing. "Without doubt it had changed for the worse," he returned, with so decided an emphasis in his voice and so conscious a glance into my face that I looked down at my hands, for the mere impossibility of looking elsewhere and not meeting a pair of eyes whose reproach cut me to the heart.
               At last, in despair of appeasing him, I resumed the former topic; descanting loudly, until I quite talked myself breathless, concerning the merits of any luckless author upon whom my unhappy tongue chanced to light. But he infinitely preferred prose, he said, to poetry; which, in so many words, seemed an intimation that he had grown weary of myself and criticisms, and that he "infinitely preferred" having me descend from my stilts of fancy to the prose of daily life.
               Immediately I did so, and rose to throw wide the shutters.
               "Why," abruptly exclaimed my companion, "why cannot men partake of the food the gods provide? Why will they, Tantalus-like, reach after the grapes that cluster above and away, or crave the waters that shrivel up as they would quench their mad thirst? Each, I presume, must answer this question from experience, and must find that hearts are swayed neither by will nor reason."
               With scarcely a pause, he continued, "And how do you like these cousins of mine?"
               
               I replied that I had formed no opinion, as we yet had had small opportunity of becoming acquainted.
               "But surely you have seen Isabel numberless times; she called occasionally, did she not?"
               There was just a slight tinge of triumph in his tone. I wouldn't gratify any man's vanity by acknowledging the partiality for his own lordly self aroused in a young girl's bosom, so rather indifferently remarked that I didn't know whether she had or not.
               "But say something, anything, if 'you will. I am anxious to ascertain if you are an adept in character-painting."
               "By no means, sir," said I. "Let me think, though. If I recall the young lady's features, perhaps some magic spell may enable me to judge of her interior qualities. Thus the Fay waves her wand:
               "I see a face with clear olive complexion; eyes, soft and languishing, gaze at me with almost childlike earnestness; the hair is folded away from a brow in waves whose hue would match the raven's wing; the maiden's voice speaks in sweet, honey-dew accents,—a voice whose tone never rises, never sharpens, but merely glides along with changeless rhythm."
               I was near adding that it is a tone calculated to exasperate me into violence from the very mildness of its manner, and that "durance vile" (wherever or whatever that may be) could harbor no greater torture than the doom of listening to the insipid sweetness streaming from aforesaid voice.
               However, I refrained, merely saying, "You must excuse me, Mr. Brent, from pronouncing verdict, in personal qualities the young lady is so utterly at variance with preconceived ideas of mine. For instance, the brunette style of beauty is always associated in my mind with these lines from Byron,—" 
                     
                        'Oh, night,
                        And storm, and darkness, ye are wondrous strong,
                        Yet lovely in your strength, as is the light
                        Of a dark eye in woman!"
                     
                   Miss Hightower, though, seems but a child in disposition: confiding, dependent, clinging to others. Is it not so?"
               "The old story of the vine and oak, Fay. There is none of the Di Vernon masculinity in Isabel. Do you not think it will be well with him who gains the esteem of so mild a pattern of her sex? Do you not think it will be laudable,—the desire to win a maiden such as this for one's very own?"
               Though my cheeks were tingling with blended vexation and confusion, I coolly returned him stare for stare, and remarked that for him, who preferred his Krug flat and insipid, utterly innocent of froth or foam, a cup like unto this would never pall on the lips; but that for my part I liked a woman of spirit; that a companion who never did aught than the proprieties of life, or who would always chime in with "yes" when I intended yes, or "no" when dying for an argument, would own the power of exasperating me into fury; and concluded by saying, "But every one to his taste: if a man aspires to mate with angels, he had better take Miss Isabel on trust; for if a gentle voice and soft glances betoken angelhood, she is fully entitled to the accompanying harp and wings."
               "Silly girl!" he exclaimed; "do you not know it is woman's weakness that constitutes her greatest charm?—that men resent any independence of spirit, and recoil from her who is pronounced strong and Amazonian in character? Do you not know we men flatter ourselves upon sustaining the frailer vessel, and guiding it through storm and ruin to the desired haven?"
               There was an ironical smile upon the speaker's lips, and I wondered if sentiments such as those found place in his heart.
               "Do you not know that it is pleasant for man to note the face of his lady-love glow and brighten at his coming?—to know that it smiles always for him, that it submits even whim, caprice to his pleasure? Ay, he would be unwise indeed who would not turn to such a one!"
               A mist gathered before me. I thought of the gulf between myself and a woman of the type he had portrayed. Would I ever be gentle in speech or kind of heart?
               Afterwards there was a game of chess between papa and Mr. Brent, so there was nothing left for me to do but read or play; preferring the latter, I went into the parlor and sat there in the twilight before the piano; but somehow the keys were dumb for a long time, then familiar melodies came at my touch, and a sad, dreamy happiness crept over me. Why should anything he could say make me miserable? I will be brave, my journal, and not wince under his bitter hauteur. Why should these tears dim my sight because I am unlike one of his meek, quiet, saintly women? Life is dreary, though the spring is hastening over lane and moor! Will it ever be bright, O journal? will it?
               
               I am considering why it is that whenever I most desire to appear amiable and well-meaning (as do other girls), the Fates in a triple league conspire together, and hold me up for inspection,—the antipodes of what I would be. This morning, for instance! When my eyes unclosed, the room was flooded with sunlight. An unusual stir and bustle from the hall below caused me to start from my couch in wonderment as to its meaning. I went to the window, and looked out. The sun had climbed high in the heavens; the hills were bathed in the gorgeousness of his light; seemingly, the day was far advanced. It being something unusual for me to sleep late, I scarcely repressed a cry of vexation when, upon looking at my watch, I found it ten o'clock.
               And this day of all days!
               I shook my hair down upon my shoulders, and proceeded to brush it with no gentle hand.
               Janet, eager-eyed and demonstrative, then appeared on the scene. "Oh," I said, "why didn't you wake me? I should have been up hours ago."
               "I, Miss Hope, darlin'!" exclaimed she. "No, indeed. Can't I tell my young leddy's worn out with trottin' her feet off for sick folks and worryin' over 'em? And don't I know which way the wind's a blowin'? No, child; I haven't it in my mind to let any Hightowers or Buddingtons see you followin' up any gentleman as they do. And that's the very reason I wouldn't wake you when I see 'em comin' a tearin' down here before he'd swallowed a mouthful. Gracious knows, my young leddy can have no end of strings to her bow if she jest happened to want 'em." (Oh, Janet, Janet, what a fabrication to support the family dignity!) "And so, Miss Hope, darlin', I jest let 'em know you had no care nor thought for their Mr. Brent. And I jest told them Hightowers and Buddingtons you was used to late naps, and that not for nothin' was I a goin' to make you open your pretty eyes. If you'll come to the window here, you can have a peep at 'em all," she added. "They're about starting. But gracious, my dear, you're pullin' your pretty hair to pieces; you're a diggin' into your head like it was a stack o'hay! Don't, don't!"
               There was much parleying before the party moved away. Guy Buddington, Nell, and Miss Isabel were on horse-back. The carriage from Wildmoor stood waiting; but Mr. Brent, instead of entering as he should have done, induced young Guy to exchange, and, weak as he was, mounted in a trice to a seat in the saddle, and moved beside Miss Hightower. The young lady seemed timid at apparently the novelty of her position, but her cheek glowed with the exhilaration of joy and exercise, her countenance, so piquante and sparkling, was exceedingly lovely under the glad expression that flitted athwart it.
               And her companion! His eyes fastened themselves upon her beauty. All the naïveté, all the fascination of her manner exerted its charm. With his head bowed low over her hand, he appeared an age essaying to clasp the glove; but soon, with a laugh, she drew it away, blushing at the artlessness that had led her into a banishment of propriety. Finally, she selected a rose from her nosegay, and delivered it into his keeping with more blushing and laughing and innocent embarrassment.
               "That's bound to be a match," Janet said, with much emphasis; "the Lord ha' mercy, though, she's welcome to him." The speaker turned to the bed, and darted at pillows and mattresses with such ferocity, giving a lunge here and a shake there, that I inwardly congratulated them upon being simple moss and feathers.
               I ate my breakfast in solitude; that is, if it can be termed such with my poor old dear standing sentinel at the back of my chair, tempting my appetite with this "bit o' toast," or "that new-laid egg," or a luscious "pile o' honey," to which clung the perfume of its thousand flowers. And afterwards I roamed the house over in a vain attempt to ensnare myself in some employment. If there were nothing to do but think, I felt I should go mad. Would the hours never drag by? I pulled every book from the case and shelves, arranged and rearranged them; practiced the most tiresome of scales and exercises in all "Bertini's Method;" commenced an interminable seam, but tossed it aside before I had taken three stitches; then reached down "Pollok's Course of Time," and, to punish myself, and deprive myself of a great pleasure to which I had no title (for Childe Harold lay open to tempt me), turned to the end, and read it backward until I thought I should scream with the hateful tax. Janet was just then of too utilitarian a composition to be persuaded into a ramble. So in despair, and as a final alternative, I searched for my sketch-book and crayons, tied my hat down, and enjoyed the huge satisfaction (?) of remarking to my image in the mirror, "You're a horrid fright, Hope Vairin; no wonder nobody cares for you."
               With this balm of consolation laid to my soul, I sauntered away, and took the path leading to the bridge, so as to sketch the mill under its spring aspect. I had already sketched it in winter garb. In fact, they say all the young ladies round make a habit of thus doing; that is, of course, all those who, like me, are endowed with the talent. True, it is in opposition to the principles of gravitation that my miller (whom I thought to represent issuing from the door of his mill-house would seem an ingenious expedient) is, on the contrary, making vast strides towards the heavens, my wheel entirely innocent of seeking contact with the stream, and the stream sluggishly endeavoring to appear as if escaping to the background. In short, there are numberless little errors of the like kind, and as I put my head on this side, and then on that (holding the drawing in every possible light to render myself an impartial critic), I arrived at the conclusion that it is worse than useless to aspire to the glory of a Lorrain, or a Rubens, or a Vandyke.
               No; if I must be miserable, I must close my wounds, drown my sighs, and stifle my sobs, without seeking the necessary guerdon of fame as an outlet or a salve to blasted hopes. There are cries of agony in the quiet walks of life which never float to any ear save that of Him above. There are tears that are wept, groans framed into voice, love that is wrung, wounds that bleed,—yet no eye sees, no ear hearkens. It is better thus. For why should we reveal our sorrows to the world? It mocks, it jeers in scorn at misery thus palpable.
               And now, my journal, there is much that I want to say into your good, patient ear. Standing there on that bridge, thinking of my own great unhappiness, what should startle me but the vision of somebody beside me, at the same moment that a pair of arms was flung about my shoulders.
               And whom do you think it was?
               My brother—Bertie—the lost, loved playmate of years gone by. He stood there noble in his young manhood.
               Surely God must be beautiful,—wonderfully, majestically beautiful,—since the meanest of his creatures, at times, are of such glory that it dazzles our human eyes to look upon them!
               You may guess how glad it had made me when, without warning, he came to us on a visit that was to be a secret from papa. Last Christmas it happened, but, alas! from many causes, he was ill for many days in that stone room at the abbey. Upon his recovery he had left us, only returning some months after; and now to-day I find him back once again; but it makes me tremble to see him.
               How can I bear it, journal, journal? I have sworn to make an attempt to insure his reconciliation with father; but how, or when? Was not that a terrible warning when the letter came from India? How do I know but that the intelligence of Bertie's return may kill my father? Ah me! the doctor recommended perfect ease and quietude of life; and yet, can I shrink from the trial, when, perhaps, if I manage skilfully, such a result as my brother desires will crown the effort?
               "Hope," he said, "I have come to you for the last time. What folly is this putting me off for so long! I'm in a mood to dare to venture all,—anything, everything, to shorten this suspense!"
               In terror I clung to him. "For papa's sake, leave it to me, Bertie! If he sees you it would ruin us both. You must promise me to keep out of the way until he is someway prepared to hear of your return."
               "Well, well, as you will; but it is torture to imprison myself in that wretched inn like a vagabond, skulking out here to snatch a look at you. It is death and hell—such a life! You have heard full well from Mildmay, Hope, that I've given over sowing wild oats and all that sort of thing. If only my father can be made to believe in me again! And this you have bound yourself to bring about, little sister; you have bound yourself to restore me my place in our father's affection; to bring me again to the time when I may look my fellows honestly in the face, and take a better hold on life. Oh, Hope, don't fail, don't put me off,—it would be maddening!"
               Laying my poor, tired head on his bosom, I renewed all my vows and promises. "Only give me time, though, Bertie," I pleaded. "Papa is so stern, so cold; but I will nerve myself for the ordeal, and with God's help I shall succeed!"
               We talked a long, long while on that mill bridge, of how, perhaps, it will all come about. But, journal, my darling, I shudder when a thought of the dreadful morrow comes over me. What if we fail? Who may count the chances of success?
               Oh that it were over!—that we might just slip into ordinary life with no terrible secret to hide! There is always this fear of a word, a whisper, startling the air; this cringing before a shock that may deaden the ears upon which it crashes.
               Oh, what can I do? what can I do?
               My brother Bertie is no coward, slinking from the gaze of his fellow-man! He walks proudly before them all, with head erect; and if there be an eye inclined to measure him according to standard of contempt or indignity, the noble play of feature on his countenance would cause that eye to quail in penitence that it did him wrong.
               How the old time comes over me!—the old time when he was a boy with locks of gold, and heart so light a thistle-down might have carried weight in comparison!
               I was a little girl then, but there was a dim sorrow lurking about me somewhere; it followed in my play, and folded itself in my arms when at night I used, at times, to sob myself to sleep for very loneliness.
               But the old time must drift away, giving place to the new.
               Now it has come, and we are here together after the lapse of years; but the web and tissue of the ancient, faraway dreams have spun themselves out so drearily: in mockery, perhaps, of the boy and girl who were wont to make merry through the long summer days in that olden season of childhood.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "True, hope is swift, and flies with swallow's wings.
                           Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings!"
                        
                     
                     Richard III.
                  
               
               "PAPA," said I this morning, "may I come to you in the library for a while? I have something to say, and want to see you entirely alone."
               There was a perceptible elevation of the eyebrows, as he answered, "Certainly, come! I have never prohibited your use of the apartment, I trust."
               I attempted no reply, but went on arranging my vines, and feeling very much as if I were to be shortly on the way to annihilation. Of course my frame of mind was as comfortable as people's ordinarily are under such circumstances.
               When the task was completed, I made an ineffectual attempt to follow him; but a numbness seized me, and I leaned staggering against the wall. "Courage!" I whispered to myself. "It is to be your very last attempt; if you fail now, it will be for all time." And, plucking up spirit, I crossed the hall and tapped at the study-door.
               "May I come in, papa?"
               He raised his eyes at my entrance, and then, as I went over to him, continued writing, and all my bravery quailed. If he would only speak, I thought, and not appear so hopelessly ignorant of my presence.
               At last, moving closer to him, I faltered,—
               "If you please, sir, there is something about which I am very unhappy. Oh, papa! why will you not understand? Why will you not see that my life is miserable, and you have the power to make it so different?"
               "What do you mean?" he cried.
               Then I knelt before him, and, clasping my hands on his knee, uttered but the one word, "Bertie."
               In anger he shook off my touch, and exclaimed, "Have not I forbidden that name upon your lips? Why do you persist in torturing me thus? Go, if this is what you would say; go, and leave me to quiet!"
               "Only hear me this once, papa. It shall be the last time I will ever speak of—of him. But hear me out, oh, I pray you, hear me out!"
               I paused; but he made no response. He sat motionless, his face white, lips rigidly locked, and one hand on the table twitching nervously. No thought entered my mind then of the effect it might have upon him; I was only conscious of my brother, and his fate, and in his behalf drew a picture of homes where sons and daughters clustered around the hearth-stone in bright companionship; where, if one fell from his standard of purity, the others sheltered him with their great love, and brought him safely, tenderly as a stray lamb, back to the fold. But oh, if they cast him out, a wanderer on the world's highway, to walk through life with bare, bleeding feet, to meet no sympathy, no tender counsel, to feel forsaken of God and man, what had not those to answer for who turned their hearts and doors against him! Would not God exact a penalty for the trespassing of his most sacred law?
               I know not half that I said; but I pleaded as if it were for my own self—as the dying would pray for life, or the miserable living would pray for death. My words were wrung from the depths of a great agony. I knew well the terrible harvest to be reaped from my father's refusal. And he sat there like a man of stone, and heard me to the end. All my fear of him, all my embarrassment, had fled. Words flowed from my lips as if they had been coined for ready usage, and when I paused breathless, and gazed eagerly in his face, it was with a firm faith in the right of my cause that I awaited his reply.
               None came. His brow relaxed somewhat, and he passed his hand over its furrows with a pained, hasty movement. Then he muttered hoarsely, "You ask what is impossible."
               But I clung to him, and still besought him with the great tears dimming my eyes and choking my voice.
               "Impossible, papa! Why impossible? If you would have mercy on your children, if you know aught of compassion, say, say you will forgive him!"
               He turned aside, staring blankly at the wall. But I would not be silenced; rising, I stood before him, and, sweeping back my hair, cried, "Look at me, papa! People say that I have intellect, accomplishments, beauty if you will; but what are these gifts to me when there is for us no home-happiness, when we are divided against each other, when your heart is barred close against your children who petition in vain for entrance? What have I done that all my life you should shut me from your affection?—but, if you will, thrust me farther away from you: I am content, if you will but heed my prayers for Bertie. Poor lad! Papa, he has only you and I in the wide world to stand up and say 'I love him.' Think if your continued coldness should plunge him deep into ruin—a ruin, a chaos from which he may never more arise!"
               In such eager words I prayed for my brother; and though voice quavered, and my heart shook, I would not desist, but watched my father's face as it paled and flushed, and his breast as it heaved with suppressed emotion.
               He seemed deeply moved. Some divine impulse, perhaps, was stirring in his soul. Who can tell but that the fount of mercy had opened in his bosom, and would yet flow benignly through his marble nature, to freshen and revivify it?
               At last, words came from beneath his breath, and so low that I was forced to bend my head to catch their meaning:
               
               "Child, leave me now; in pity, leave me. Who knows: perhaps some day it might come right; but not yet, not yet. Ask me not to forgive him until I have conquered my pride, my passion. It was a hard, a bitter blow. I have staggered beneath it. No, do not ask me yet!"
               I moved towards the door with slow, uncertain tread. My hand was on the knob when he rose, came forward, and, grasping my arm, said hoarsely, "You are a brave, good girl; you deserve happiness. Try to be happy in your own way—apart from me. At the best, I am but a gloomy companion for your bright years; and you have a lifetime before you."
               "Oh, no," I cried. "I am never happy away from you. If—if you would only love me a little, just a little!" And for the first time I lay sobbing on my father's bosom. Tears came which bore more of joy than sorrow in their flow; tears which seemed to wash away all my grief and loneliness of spirit. He laid his hand on my head, and stroked my curls, and, in broken voice, called me his dear child; when at last he put me from him, it was with a new gentleness that quite unnerved me.
               For hours afterwards I heard him pacing the floor with firm, measured tread. How happy I am! How grateful, too, for this bow of promise that spans the future! To-morrow I shall meet my brother by the mill, and tell him that we need be patient for but a while longer, and then—and then, papa shall know of his return.
               In such a way, it happened that this afternoon, with a lighter heart than has been mine for many a day, I stood-at the garden gate, looking out upon the little world around. A glad radiance rested upon it; I did not dare question of myself from whence the skies borrowed their new robes of beauty, or the clouds their gorgeous linings of gold and crimson. In a happy reverie, I was leaning upon the iron railing; lost myself in entrancing daydreams, until the ringing of horse's hoofs aroused me. Looking down into the road, I beheld Captain Mildmay and Harry Briarly.
               "Ah!" exclaimed the former, gayly; "so bright a face is a sight for sair een! What a day for a ride! Will you not join us, Miss Hope?"
               Just then, the prospect of a seat upon Lady Fashion's back delighted me beyond measure. Inviting them to enter, I flew to don my habit, which process did not consume much time. Janet tied down my refractory curls with a ribbon, hurried on my hat and gloves, and, with many a sly innuendo about "strings to your bow," sped me out to the porch.
               For some time our road lay along the open country; but we were soon threading a narrow bridle-path that, being shut in on either side by giant hills, proved but an irksome monotony for the eye. Afterwards, we emerged into a stretch of woodland whose array of pines and oaks reached bare, barren arms to the sky.
               "I hear voices," exclaimed the captain; "and there," pointing with his whip, "are flutterings of a skirt. Let's ride up, and ascertain who be our friends of the forest."
               They were a riding-party from Wildmoor.
               "Halloa, Brent," shouted my eccentric cavalier, "Out already! I hardly thought you over that fall."
               "To tell the truth," was the response, "I'm only here on sufferance. If it were not for this fair lady, I should indeed be stupidly moping at home."
               He was not sitting erect as usually he does, and I thought his features were paler and more care-worn than when at the abbey. What have they been doing to him, I wonder?
               Miss Isabel bowed, and simpered slightly through her introduction to Captain Mildmay.
               "Miss Buddington" was the next presented. She sat, her form somewhat bent in the saddle, but as my companion's name rang out upon the air, drew herself up with an imperious gesture, and inclined her head coldly and with much ceremony.
               He bowed low, and in very graceful fashion; but the salute was an ironical one, or, at least, I pronounced it such.
               What a picture of patrician beauty! The young lady had doffed her black-plumed cap, and the masses of golden hair lay upon a neck white as the snow-drifts of winter. Her riding-habit revealed every curve of the form that would be noble model-for sculptor or artist, and the gloved hand holding her reins was as dainty in design as if fashioned for sprite of magic dell.
               She caught up the cluster of hair, hid it beneath her hat, and urged her pony onward.
               Desiring us to join their party, the cavalcade moved forward, myself, Harry, and the captain bringing up the rear.
               "What say you all to a race?" asked Nell, as a broad stretch of country appeared in view.
               "Oh, dear, no," implored Isabel. "Cousin Geoffrey, don't." As Lady Fashion, impelled by my coaxing, bounded past them, I could catch a tender glance of the eye towards his helpless charge, and hear his words of assurance that he would not leave her. And touching my whip with no gentle hand to the mare's flanks, I distanced them all save Captain Mildmay, who gained my side by dint of giant leaps. As we rode on pell-mell together, neither speaking nor swerving an inch, I stole a look at his face, which seemed to wear an aspect of hard, bitter scorn. His eyes were gleaming, keen as steel, his lips stolid; ever and anon he plunged his spurs into the horse's side until the animal fairly winced in pain.
               It was only when our further progress was stayed by a yawning gulf that we slackened rein, and paused upon the brink of the barrier, uncertain whether to attempt the leap or not. By this dallying, the others were presently beside us. Captain Mildmay grew restive, and, catching my rein, shook it roughly as he insisted upon my "jumping" the ditch.
               "What is this?" said Mr. Brent, only then advancing with his protégée. "Surely, Miss Vairin, you do not intend crossing the Rubicon there?"
               "You mustn't think," murmured Isabel, "that all girls are as silly as I am; I'd faint with horror if I had to go over that frightful place. But Miss Vairin" (with a dove-like glance at me) "is so daring, so independent. I'm sure she'll get to be quite strong-minded some day; but you know you gentlemen all admire that sort of woman; now don't tell me you don't."
               "Don't you be a fool, Belle," sneered Maud.
               I know not whether the others detected the sudden lightning glance flashing from the soft eyes,—a glance that might have scathed the rebuker as she sat toying with her whip. Nor whether they heard the captain's innocent aside, "By Jove, she hasn't those black eyes for nothing!"
               But I know that I wondered the young lady could so rapidly reverse her tactics, enacting the rôle of eagle as well as dove.
               "You're unkind, Maud," she whimpered.
               The latter made no reply, however. Guiding her horse to mine, she bent her stately head, and whispered, "Do not attempt the ditch; for your own good I advise you."
               But, on the other hand, the captain murmured, "Don't be a coward like the rest of them, Miss Hope. I know you can do it. Only try. Do not hold your rein tightly; leave my lady to her own endeavors, and, by Jove, we'll show them what a true Englishwoman can do."
               A low, gurgling laugh came from Isabel, as she said, in a loud whisper, "It's no use to interfere, cousin mine; you see she has already fallen into traces, and obeys her lord and master."
               That easy, pleasant voice lashed me into fury; it was as if I were experiencing the sting of so many nettles.
               Whipping my horse, I coaxed her forward; but a strong hand seized the rein, a strong voice spoke to my better nature, which then heeded only the mutterings of wounded pride.
               "Reckless girl, you shall not endanger your life; for once, be guided by reason."
               But I shook off his clutch. Captain Mildmay, darting a triumphant glance towards Maud, was rewarded by a sneer from her red lip, and something to the effect that, if a pair of fools rushed headlong into danger, wise people should turn on their heels, and leave them to a kind fate. Lady Fashion fell back on her haunches; her glossy head towered proudly in air; her sleek limbs were quivering. Uttering a low, joyous neigh, she cleared the ditch at a bound, and sped off like the wind, whilst a loud "Bravo! she's one of your women, by the Lord Harry!" pealed forth from Guy Buddington. During the confab, he had stood eager to be my abettor and rival, but, restrained through courtesy to Nell, was necessitated to forego a longing to dare the leap also.
               "Shall we go back?" I asked, after riding at breakneck speed for some distance.
               "No," rejoined the other, moodily; "they've left us in the lurch. I know of a short cut round."
               "And Harry?"
               "Oh, he'll pick his own way home."
               We rode ahead, and I entertained my companion with varied bits of drollery and scraps of interest, not noticing that he volunteered but monosyllabic replies. I regarded him with some degree of curiosity.
               "You are tired," I ventured.
               "Not at all."
               "Out of sorts, then. What annoys you?"
               "Decidedly not out of sorts. Nothing annoys me."
               "Then, something is the matter. What is it?"
               He laughed a queer, sarcastic laugh.
               "Why should anything be the matter with me? Why should anything annoy me? You are wrong: I was never more equable in my life."
               "You're a provoking man," I said; "you would try the temper of a saint."
               "Which you are far from being, my friend," was his rejoinder.
               "After that compliment, sir, I'll none of you. But come, enough of such nonsense. What do you think of Miss Buddington?"
               He leaned down to adjust his stirrup.
               "How do you mean?—how think of her?"
               "Why, whether she's pretty or ugly, of course."
               "I think," he said, slowly, "the dark-haired Miss High-tower by far the handsomest. But where, in Heaven's name, did that proud-faced Miss Buddington get her expression?"
               "Her haughty airs, do you mean? No doubt she was born with them. Don't you think many a person, by being thrown in contact with the world and suffering from its cold usage, is made into one of these repulsive statues? But Miss Buddington is too young to be excused thus."
               "I think you're mistaken. In this statue I see a woman of probably twenty-five years; one who has long toiled in hard world-service, and reaped the bitter harvest such bondage brings its votaries; one of our beautiful, artistic models who are only to be won by chink of gold, and who hurl to despair the presumptuous dolt that cannot hang jewels in their dainty ears, or deck them in raiment of satin and silk."
               "You ought to be ashamed!" I retorted. "Miss Buddington does not appear a day over twenty. And I'm confident you utterly mistake her character. Why do you take up such prejudices? I never felt so attracted by any woman before. Oh, did you notice her eyes,—did you? They are the purest, the loveliest I ever saw,—blue as cornflowers!"
               "And I know they are telling you lie upon lie, Miss Hope! Do you not detect the basilisk gleam? A strange fancy came over my mind when she turned them full upon me. I could only remember the cobra capello, and see those great, shiny coils that are beautiful to gaze upon, but that bring death to those whom they strike. Such women have been the bane of many a good fellow long before your day!—rank poison to their souls! We will not be gloomy, however; that is not my forte, you know."
               With an attempt at levity, he whistled to the horses. I was not long in reaching home. He would not come in, but, with a strange, uncertain good-by, rode away, his aspect sullen, brow knit, and horse's hoofs ringing sharply upon the road.
               Alone in my room to-night, so many thoughts are crowding uppermost that I in vain strive to reason calmly.
               There, too, papa is walking the floor again.
               How sorry it makes me! he cannot help but be miserable, living as we do. But this new, untried hope that flutters in my bosom sings a sweet melody, and when I listen to the song, oh, how beautiful it is!
               Let me feed my heart on this dear desire. I am so brimful of joy to-night that I wonder the stars are not envying me my bright eyes. But it has been so long, O stars, since they have worn a lustre! and you, that have shone through eternity, will not snatch away my stray bit of happiness.
               
               Is it possible I am the same being who, a few weeks since, stood at this casement almost fearing that God and the angels were gone a great way aloof from me?
               Why is it that some sorrows dash all our thoughts with weakening faith? Where is the Christian's hope, that it sinks away when the tide of bitterness surges over him, and he is ready to curse God and die?
               We are so weak; and when the blow falls we cower before it, not seeing the Father's pitying eyes that long to stay the uplifted hand. He knows our frailty; chastises, yet forgives, and all is well.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "'Tis not for fate to choose
                        Silence or song because she can refuse
                        Real eyes to glisten more, real hearts to ache
                        Less oft, real brows turn smoother for our sake."
                     
                  
               
               DEAR old journal, good-morning!
               Three days have sped away since I have kissed you and pressed you in my arms. What have I been doing all this time, you say? Ah! you are positively jealous, I see.
               Nothing, absolutely nothing, but cherishing an idle dream over my new happiness.
               Papa's manner is still cold, reserved as ever; but at times I meet his eye fixed upon me with something of a sorrowful tenderness, and it gives me trust that in a sweet future-time I may win his love, and, with my brother restored to us, we three may be all in all to one another. In last evening's twilight I bore my glad tidings to Bertie. He consented to wait and bide his time. In a couple of weeks, we planned, I should reveal the news of his return to papa. We could only hope that his softened mood would endure until then, and bring him to receive the prodigal who was yearning for home and home ties.
               
                  Heimweh! Alas, who knows naught of that weary, dreary longing which turns the heart sick of deferred hope!
               To-day I strolled out for my usual hour of exercise, and most unexpectedly stumbled upon Miss Buddington. She was seated upon a rock in a great hollow. Above her drooped a cluster of wild berries, that, depending luxuriantly from the parent bush, formed a graceful item in the picture whose outlines consisted of flowing drapery, a scarlet shawl, a bit of sky, and a straggling vine of ivy that crept to the branch of a tree. The crackling of the undergrowth had warned her of an intruder, for when we were in view of each other she had started to her feet, and in haste was thrusting some sketches into a portfolio.
               Detecting a frown upon her brow, I turned to withdraw. But, with a half smile, she said,—
               "Oh, it is you! Pray stay a moment. I thought it might be somebody whom I do not care to meet."
               "Then do you care at all to meet me, Miss Buddington?"
               "Well—perhaps. I like anything or anybody that is different from the experience of an every-day routine. But don't flatter yourself, Miss Vairin, I intend that for a compliment. The world, you remember, condemns anything in woman that savors of will or daring. We must keep to the beaten path in every emergency."
               I replied that compliments were quite distasteful to me; that I would prefer braving the truth to having my ear surfeited with false praise.
               "Then how do you manage to get on with your gentlemen friends? Or" (with a sneer) "do they modify their falsehoods so that you accept what they say as truth?"
               My cheeks burned hotly as I echoed, "Gentlemen friends! I don't believe I have any."
               "A true woman's answer. Then what are you doing with Captain Mildmay? Is that the title?"
               A mocking light shone in her eyes, and, pronouncing the name, her voice bore a sarcastic ring that jarred my nerves very unpleasantly.
               "I do not know why you should question the nature of my friendship towards any gentleman," I exclaimed, "nor why I should school myself into the reply. But, nevertheless, I will say that Captain Mildmay is a true friend of mine,—the only one, in fact, to whom I can bring claim."
               "Indeed!" said she, opening wide her eyes. "And you trust him implicitly, perhaps?"
               "There is no question of trust," I retorted. "Ours is a pleasant acquaintanceship, but I have no doubt, if need be, I can repose unlimited confidence in his friendship."
               "You had better not. Remember, I warn you."
               "But why?" I persisted. "You know nothing of him; he is a mere stranger to you. It is not right to take up a prejudice against any one."
               "My motto, Miss Vairin, is to trust nobody. I have been out in the world a little, and flatter myself that I have penetrated beneath its outer stratum of deceit and hypocrisy. You must know there is a broad layer of glass at the surface, and those who are wise tread airily upon it. Unfortunately, when all was new and bright in life to me I went bounding over with incautious feet, shattered to fragments the thin medium, and, as you see, had a peep at the tinsel and false glamour beneath. Never afterwards have I been able to close my eyes to the picture."
               It is very quiet and peaceful in that hollow. Away off sweep the great, eerie wolds with their patches of fern and gorse; huge boulders lie scattered athwart them, and, crouching close to the feet of the hills, nestled an array of firs. A little moorland beck brawled pleasantly beside us, losing itself now and then among the tangled bilberry-bushes. Oh, little beck, I would like to lie down in the grass on your banks, and hear the voice of your song in my dreams! Even the drowsy hum of the bees that twirled upon the heather came in broken murmurs to my fancy, helping me weave a glory in life that was very beautiful.
               We did not talk much. I turned over the drawings with great pleasure, finding some of them most artistically delineated;—a cluster of fern, with here and there a bramble-bush concealing its feathery beauty; or a wreath of ivy twining around the trunk of an oak, while from its many boles peeped a silvery lichen wet with dew.
               "Oh, dear!" I exclaimed, in vexation, "do you not hear them?"
               "What?"
               And, sure enough, there came the sound of footsteps, and merry ring of voices.
               "Let us go," said Miss Buddington, rising.
               But, overtopping us, upon a miniature hill appeared Isabel and Nell, accompanied by Guy and Captain Mildmay.
               "Oh, there you are!" shouted Nell. "We've been looking everywhere for you, Cousin Maud."
               "Yes," chimed in Isabel, "and this gentleman has been inconsolable during your absence; haven't you, Captain Mildmay?"
               Maud looked up at him as he leaned toward her over the hill-brow. An angry gleam shot into her eyes; she strove to still the quivering of her lip.
               "I'll spare him the necessity of a reply," she answered. "He has survived the ordeal quite bravely."
               He tore off a weed or two, and flung them down into the water; then, laughing, said, "Quite true, mademoiselle. I'm not at all inconvenienced by external circumstances."
               The party then scrambled down to join us.
               One of the loose sketches had fluttered from her portfolio as Maud rose, and, stooping to pick it up, the captain's face flushed strangely as his careless glance fell upon it.
               "What does it represent?" asked I, reaching out my hand. "Here is the sea, and a pier; and, oh, such a lovely young lady, with long golden hair; the wind blows it about, and her hand shades her eyes as if she is trying to see beyond the water! What is it?"
               "'Pon honor, but it looks like the beach at Scarborough," ejaculated Mildmay.
               "Were you ever there?" queried Isabel of him. "How much I would love to spend a season in Scarborough! It's so very gay; and the esplanade must be delightful."
               "You needn't wish to visit it," he returned, dryly. "'Tis a dreary, uncomfortable hole. I was never there but once, and that visit cured me of any desire to lay eyes upon the place again."
               "Ah," I laughed, "maybe you regret the pretty girl there you think it's a pity not to have fallen in love with. I wonder if she survived the mortification your indifference must have caused her?"
               An angry glow suffused Miss Buddington's countenance, and she turned away, saying, "I'm going back to the house; you'll excuse me, possibly."
               The captain stooped over a bush hard by, and examined its under-branches very minutely; but when he came towards me, saying, under his breath, "Will you ever forget that unlucky speech of mine?" I could only peer with astonishment into his face, that seemed disturbed by some inward struggle or emotion.
               "What's to pay, Mildmay?" questioned Guy.
               This young man is rather well bred, but shallow; kind and large-hearted, though, which compensates for many deficiencies. He is principally noticeable for a light, insipid moustache, eyes of a pale blue, and an ill concealed partiality for the society of little, winsome Nell Brent.
               "By George, Miss Vairin," continued he, "I'm proud to know you; you'd just be in for a hurdle. I say, Belle, can't we make up some sort of a dash-and-clatter party?"
               "With Miss Hightower to pioneer the way on her fiery Bucephalus, no doubt you would be decidedly dash-and-clatter,—eh?" laughed the captain.
               "Thank you, sir;" and the young lady bent a glance of withering scorn upon him, as also upon Guy, who, with a boisterous "Ha, ha!" seemed to deem it an excellent joke, and thereupon rallied his cousin untiringly.
               "Do come home with us, Miss Hope," insisted Nell. "I'm sure luncheon is ready; and sister complains sadly of you."
               "Does she indeed? Do you think she—would like for me to come?"
               "I don't think at all; I know it," said Nell, sweetly, slipping her cool little hand in my arm.
               I did not think to resist, for I was wishing to get a look into my dear Miss Lucy's face above all things.
               "What is that? Listen!" said Isabel, as we were passing the keeper's lodge and turning into the park.
               "Hush for a minute," exclaimed Guy. He went up to a little vine-screened window, and, parting the foliage, peeped in.
               A voice was singing,— 
                     
                        "Will ye go to the 'ew-bughts, Marion,
                        An' wear in the sheep wi' me?
                        The sun shines sweet, my Marion,
                        But nae half sae sweet as thee!
                        Oh, Marion's a bonnie lassie,
                        An' the blythe blinks in her e'e,
                        An' fain wad I marry Marion,
                        Gin Marion wad marry me."
                     
                  
               
               Captain Mildmay was looking over my shoulder at the picture beyond that little vine-screened window.
               Miss Buddington sat on a low stool, her white dress falling softly around her; one hand supported her head. She did not stir when, the song over, she said blithely, "There, granny, I've done for you what I would not for another body on earth." Then, while her tone fell into sadness, "I used to know that a long time ago."
               "An' thank ye, dearie," exclaimed the old keeper's wife. "It's many a day sence yo're mither sang it fur me, an' yo ha' her bonnie voice aw o'er agen."
               "Do you like it?" I asked the captain.
               "Like it!" echoed he, with almost a fierceness in his manner; "you know well enough she forced me to like it."
               I am growing used to these uncertain moods of Captain Mildmay's; they are but momentary; and so I moved on with the rest, avoiding even mental comment upon his brusqueness.
               When, with much laughter and chatting, we halted at the porch, I caught a glimpse of Mr. Brent hurrying on to the stable-yard.
               "How're you coming on?" called out Captain Mildmay to him.
               He paused, then turned towards us.
               "Glad to see you all," said he. "Mildmay, will you come to the kennels a moment? Two of the men have just come back from a hunt, and have lamed one of my pointers. Ladies, we will soon be with you."
               They hurried off, and we went in.
               "Is it old Ben, Luce darling, that is hurt?" asked Nell, going up and kissing her.
               "Yes; but it is not bad, I think. Geoffrey is only so anxious because it is Walter's dog. He was very proud of old Ben, was Walter."
               "And now, what has kept away my song-bird?" she said, taking my face in both her hands, and looking down at me with her brave, unflinching eyes.
               "Oh, Miss Lucy!" was all I could answer; for the truth and honesty in her gaze made me quail like any coward.
               "Come," exclaimed she, presently, "go out, like good children, and find time for a croquet-match. We'll have to wait for the gentlemen, you know."
               In short order, we were knocking our balls on the smooth lawn with gleeful excitement. One game had been played, we were in the midst of another, when Isabel, who was rapidly nearing the stake, and anticipating every moment the triumph of calling out "Croquet," suddenly lost her temper because Guy, making desperate havoc with her ball, sent it much beyond reasonable limits of victory. She then threw down her mallet in anger, insisting that it was too warm to continue the game.
               "I'm tired to death, Cousin Geoffrey," she appealed to him, who just at that moment came up. "Won't you rescue me?"
               "From these Philistines?" said he, gayly.
               "Yes, if you please," casting down her eyes, and with an immense assumption of meekness about her.
               "She's in one of her tempers," laughed Guy, flouting that assumption of humility. "Don't go near her, Brent: she's dangerous."
               In the soft, dim evening, I rose to go.
               "What shall I say to Walter, Miss Vairin?" asked Mr. Brent.
               "Shall you be seeing him, sir?"
               "Yes; to-morrow I go to London."
               "To London!"
               "Yes,—does that surprise you? Well, I am a great rustic, remember, and need to acquire a few of your city graces. I go to town, Fay, upon a matter of the greatest moment,—a matter that lies nearest the heart of the person I love best on earth."
               "The person you love best! Your brother, of course?"
               "Now you're inquisitive; you think I am such a barbarian that I can own no other love but that of instinct, probably! Lord Ogre is scarcely human, eh?"
               These words were spoken apart from the others.
               "Good-by," I said to him; and turned to Miss Lucy. "We're all going to walk home with you, Miss Vairin," simpered Isabel. "Cousin Geoffrey, you will join us?"
               "I am sorry to be obliged to forego that pleasure," he apologized, "but shall be busy the entire evening."
               A shade of vexation flitted over Miss Hightower's countenance. On the road home, we were dull, marching along to the tune of that young lady's platitudes, who, at every step of the way, was sure she would die of fatigue. The gentlemen had no mercy upon her, laughing to scorn her delicate graces, and so there was perpetual sparring. I was sick of it, and expressed my regret that she had ventured upon so tedious a journey.
               Oh, dear, no; she was delighted to come, but then she had always been delicate.
               At last we compromised matters by arranging to send the party back to Wildmoor in the abbey phaeton. But Captain Mildmay poured such plausible tales in Isabel's ear about the "indomitable spirit of the bays" that I was forced to fly to the rescue by assuring her that tradition, in the person of the captain, told things passing strange, but nevertheless untrue; that she could trust her precious self to the world's end behind the bays, and if they evinced spirit sufficient to brush the flies from their flanks, it was no more than ought to be expected from them.
               So they drove away, with many protestations from Isabel that the captain was the most provoking of men, and that she would never, no, never, trust her life in his hands. And honest Guy, with his pale blue eyes and insipid moustache, wrung my hand as if we were parting forever, saying, "I trust, Miss Vairin, you'll pay a visit to the Court some time. Then we'll challenge Isabel to a run, and beat; yes, by George, we will!"
               The days fleet on, very similar one to another. The moor-side is clothed in wild beauty. The roses are baring their red hearts to the sun, and the trees fast being decked in leaf and blossom. The world, perhaps, is filled with joy and gladness.
               But I—I—have seen the spring-time crush all the merriment from my heart, all the dreams from my thoughts.
               I have awakened from the entrancing visions that have held me,—a happy child toying with a wreath of fancies,—to find that the world is but a cold, dreary waste across which I must travel with thorns binding my brow and piercing my feet. There is no hope for Bertie or me.
               None, none. It is hard to be thrust from the garden of Eden just as the eyes catch a gleam of that beautiful valley, and the ears a strain of its heavenly music.
               Until to-day I dare say mine has been the lightest heart in all this merry crowd, that, of late, are quite upsetting our dull neighborhood. The guests at Wildmoor have exchanged visits with the abbey-folk frequently.
               Briarly Manor has gathered us all beneath its hospitable roof. There have been excursions planned with a zest, and gleefully carried out to the satisfaction of the entire company. And yesterday the finale came, in a grand dinner-party at Wildmoor.
               Much against his inclination, papa was induced to be present; and there an argument arose among the gentlemen which agitated him beyond measure.
               I will not endeavor to recall it. Suffice it to say that every word penetrated papa's heart as a sword-blade, and that unluckily I caught at his mood as a means of broaching the topic which ever is uppermost in my thoughts.
               He did not even frown when, this morning, I sat down close to his knee, and said, "I have come to tell you something, papa; something that I've often wanted to do, but—but——"
               And then, in a burst of rapturous faith, I revealed the fact of Bertie's return, his illness in the abbey, and his desire to make peace with his family. I pleaded for him as earnestly as on that other day, though in my heart there lingered but feeble doubt of the success of my daring.
               There came no answer from my father, though I waited.
               "Do you not understand, papa? He is here, within call. May I not go and bring him to you?" I moved towards the door, but there he awakened as if from a dream, and, rising from his chair, strode towards me with flashing eyes, and grasped my shoulder with a hand vice-like in its strength.
               "What is this! My daughter to brave a father's authority! Do you know what you have done? You have disobeyed me; you have dared to measure your girlish strength with mine. But take heed. I will submit to no conduct such as this! Never mention that name in my hearing so long as you live, for never will I bring myself to receive him who bears it into any home of mine. This is all I have to say of him, but it is final."
               For a moment he regarded me with stern, inflexible countenance.
               "Truly, this is an unwonted proceeding!" he continued. "Reversing all precedent in my experience of life. Of one thing you may satisfy yourself. You choose between a father and a—— Oh, God! what may I say? Go; but if you wish to adhere to your brother, never look upon my face again!"
               I stood stricken speechless. No voice came to give utterance to the cry which quivered on my lips. I trembled and turned aside, and, as if in horror of his words, covered my face with my hands.
               "Do you not think I have been bowed to the dust? Do you not think I am suffering torture,—a very hell of despair? Yes, for I am a proud man, a proud man!"
               He quitted the room repeating these words. They cut me to the heart, for I, too, was proud of spirit, and could understand his degradation.
               This, then, was to be the end of all. No more dreams, no more hopes. Only to go back to the old life; take up the thread of coarse, homely grain just where I had dropped it to weave in a few crimson wefts that are all false brightness.
               I managed to crawl to my room, bathed my face, then mechanically went through the operation of arranging my hair, and, as if nothing was the matter, dressed myself with unusual care, trying in vain to put from me the sickening conviction that I was endeavoring to procrastinate the inevitable interview with my brother.
               
               The sun was dying, as a king should, in robes of purple and crimson, when we met at the usual place beside the mill.
               He heard me out calmly, but there was a look in his eyes which caused me to shudder.
               As the dusk of twilight shed its gloom over the dreamy moorland, all that heathery purple deepened into calm. The stream passing under the bridge and round by the mill went its way, singing quaintly a song of its journey to the sea. But as the dusk sped into night not a star glimmered above. The drear black sky spread like a pall over the earth, only varied by the shifting of clouds.
               The evening was cheerless, heavy with the rumbling of storms, and, as I lifted my lips for my brother's last kiss, they seemed to be gathering over us in one giant scowl. He would return to India, he said,—would see me never again, perhaps; and in a choking voice he murmured some last words, and turned away.
               I stood on the bridge until a dash of rain-drops on my face warned me homeward; but, before shelter was reached, my garments were hanging limp around me, and my hair was a dripping mass.
               The library door was locked when I tried the knob; but knocking impatiently, and crying, "Papa, it is I,—I must see you!" I waited for him to open the door. After some minutes the key turned, and his step returning to the chair reached me above the sound of driving rain.
               The casements rattled in anger; through the bleak stone hall the wind arose in gusts, wailing around me as if some lost spirit were haunting the gloom. The room was dark, except for a ray or two that struggled from a lamp only dimly lighted.
               My father was seated beside the table. With a sudden pain I saw that his features were sharp and worn, that the lines on his brow were heavy and corded, as if worked there by excessive mental anguish. His shoulders stooped terribly, and I could barely repress the cry of my heart that seemed to croon over and over, "A solitary, disappointed, desolate old man! He is nearer the grave, perhaps, than you think or could wish."
               Oh that God had spared him all sorrow!
               I went up to him tenderly, as to a tired child; but the words that he uttered stabbed me to the soul. With an angry gesture he put me from him, saying, "Cannot you let my days go out in peace? Are my children born to torment me, even to the grave? You may decide now and at once whether we shall part forever, or whether you will put an ingrate from your life for all time to come."
               The rain came hissing against the windows, the soughing of the winds drove a tempest among the trees, and the wild sea roared against the crags.
               His face gleamed pale through the fitful light; its touch of stony sorrow moved me as nothing else could have done. I sank on my knees beside him, and my head, falling lower, lower, rested upon his knee.
               "With you, papa, forever!" at last I said, while a great sob in my voice choked back other speech.
               Then I got up and went to my room, where only darkness and desolation come forward to greet me.
               "Whether we shall part forever, or whether you will put an ingrate from your life for all time to come!"
               As I sit here and write this, with the noise of the storm in my ear, my very heart seems dying within me. Tonight must be given to tears and sleeplessness! To-morrow—ah, who but the happy dare plan of the morrow?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "Up
                        I rose, as if he were my king indeed;
                        And then sate down, in trouble at myself,
                        And struggling for my woman's empery.
                        'Tis pitiful; but women are so made:
                        We'll die for you, perhaps,—'tis probable;
                        But we'll not spare you an inch of our full height.
                        We'll have our whole just stature,—five feet four,
                        Though laid out in our coffins; pitiful!"
                     
                  
               
               MR. BRENT is home again. He passed me on the road this afternoon, wafting behind him, as Raven shot by, that pleasant smile and bow which only he knows how to bestow.
               The bells were tolling good Christians to evening service. I was walking towards the village, planning a visit to our rector's wife, who is quite ill to-day. How still and white her face is! Something there and in her voice made me feel as if my life were full of emptiness, and, oh, how sinful I acknowledged myself to be when trudging homeward, with the memory before me of those faded eyes that now are so near to heaven!
               Be sure, an humble mood was on me, for when at the abbey gate I was confronted by the apparition of Mr. Brent, it was with a strange quietness I let his fingers close over mine, feeling as if in their clasp rest was surely to be gained.
               We walked up to the hall-door in silence; when we had reached it, he stood in the doorway instead of entering, and said, "Will you not sit on the steps? I have but a moment."
               So I turned back, and sank down on a broad block of stone, while he threw himself in a lounging attitude on one of the steps below.
               "Are you watching the sunset, Fay?"
               My reply was a shake of the head.
               "I was sure of it. You are no longer an enigma to me, little lady; did you know that? Your face is a book whose pages I may turn at will." He pushed back the hair from his forehead with the old careless grace. How well I recognized that peculiarity of his! but what, in his manner, is not known to me by heart?
               "Is anything written there now, pray?" I asked. My voice was dreamy and far away; my thoughts, too, wandered amid the ruins of a crushed hope, and I talked on, scarcely knowing what words my lips were framing.
               He looked long and earnestly at a pink flush in the west before replying:
               "I fear you would be angry with me should I dare read those pictured thoughts. Little girl, I have a strange, wayward fancy to see you happy, and—but I must be silent; you have so often given me to understand that my judgment is harsh and unjust, I shall perforce learn to be over-guarded in my dealings with you."
               As the grave and tender voice died away, I could have hidden my head in shame at the nameless pain that crept upon me. His manner was so ineffably gentle that it seemed harder and keener to bear, and I moved farther away as I said,—
               "Not this evening, Mr. Brent, for my accustomed irritable self is absent. Furthermore, I too have a fancy. It is to hear you speak to me as you used to do: scold, if you will, rate me soundly. Perhaps I need a lecture; and you who are able, as you say, to comprehend even a sullen, discontented face, shall interpret for me its signs. So, my lord, you may begin if you please."
               He raised himself from that reclining posture, and regarded me with gaze so sharp, I looked abroad at the sky, where the rich lights of evening were paling and flushing. What is it to him that a throb of woe pulses my being whenever his eyes thus enthrall me? The old wrath that in my heart had risen against him is quite dead; and when the sun went down below the hills, and I could look upon him as he turned towards it, I hardly wished that it bore away this love of mine, so proud am I to render him homage.
               "You are telling me at this moment, Miss Vairin, how unhappy you are; and yet there is a remedy for unhappiness,—even for such unhappiness as yours,—but you will not accept it."
               My lips quivered with the mortification of listening to these words, but bending a hot, indignant gaze towards him, I merely whispered, "Go on, sir."
               "Your face is always telling me, Fay, how cold, lonely, and unsympathetic a life you lead. Forgive me, but I deem it your own fault. You have clasped to your heart a heavy cross, and in the intensity of grief you are shutting out from your affection even those who would gladly pick up a crumb from its outer gates. Do you not call this a selfish grief?"
               "How can you know anything about it?" I asked him, with stormy tears in my eyes. "How do you even know but that I am a Lazarus myself, while the rich man does not deign to cast me a morsel?"
               "But I do know; it is you who repulse others. I can tell you that Walter admires you yet; why, the lad is at his wits' end about you, little lady."
               "I wish," I said, with a sudden dizziness, while something prompted me to stand excitedly up in my place, "oh, I wish I were at my wits' ends about him! This love of mine——"
               He put up his hands entreatingly.
               "For Heaven's sake, Miss Vairin, speak on; you must not, shall not cease!"
               My eyes never quailed before those looking upward at me. Why did they burn with such flashing inquiry?
               But I laughed, and, attempting to put him off, said, "You must not be inquisitive, sir."
               However, he did not heed, for he went on in rapid tone—
               "This love of yours—this it is makes you unhappy. Ah! I understand; yet why should he dare, why should any man dare make you miserable!"
               "Why? Because I love him."
               Yes, journal, frown as you will—I told him that, still looking unflinchingly into his burning eyes.
               The darkness came down close upon us as we sat there afterwards in the silence. The lustre of day was gone, and the evening drear and gray as if hope were quite dead. Lights began to blink from the windows, and some stars, cold and white, glided into the sky. Mr. Brent rose to go.
               "You are not displeased at anything I have said?" he asked.
               "Not at all. I'm growing rational, I believe, sir."
               "How long will it last, Fay? You see, I cannot trust you; and when the capricious child chooses at times to expand into the intelligent woman, I predict a fairy godmother close at hand who, by a wave of her wand, brings back all the old rags and tatters."
               "Ah, then," I cried, shaking my head in wisdom, "if poor Cinderella is happier in her rags and tatters, you mustn't quarrel with her for clinging to them."
               "I will not," he returned, holding out his hand. "And mark me: be they ever so worn or ugly, I promise never to chide her for donning them."
               "Are you walking home, sir?"
               "Yes, but I do not mind it, since for once my reward came ungrudgingly."
               "Your reward?"
               "A very meagre one only, Miss Vairin. By the by, who is that opening the gate?"
               "Martha, the maid, I think. She is like an owl, stealing out for a promenade only at nightfall."
               "Indeed? Good-night."
               He started away abruptly, and, instead of the usual clang signaling his exit from the gateway, the iron doors closed in exceeding quietude. I did not go in, but sat there in the darkness, puzzling over the strangeness of Mr. Brent's words. Sometimes I think he likes me well enough to wish that I might have married Walter.
               Marriage! And with him? That word is far too sacred to level so cruel a jest upon it.
               It was bedtime when I came in from my reverie. So here I am sitting in my own little room, with all the world shut out. And I can do nothing but think. Thinking will drive me mad.
               There is the vision before me of a fair, careless young face, which may nevermore dwell in the ruddy sheen of home. And oh! most terrible to see, there is the memory of that ruthless light which rushed to his eyes when he heard me pronounce our father's decision. What is in the future for him? Will he, dare he, keep to the path of rectitude now?
               Oh, if I had not been so hasty in my anger towards Mr. Brent, when he listened to our miserable story on the moor-side! He is a good, upright man; in my heart I acknowledge it.
               What if I should go to him myself, and beseech his kindness and friendship for my lost Bertie? What if I should tell him that hereafter I will be ever meek, and, oh, so humble, and not too proud to accept his judgment as far superior to my own? If he will only help Bertie and me! And he will—he will. I am so glad that I am learning to value the truth of his friendship; with his firm, strong heart he can smooth away much of this trouble.
               And, God helping me, I will put aside the weakness that causes me to stagger and grow faint at the mere thought of braving those gravely tender eyes.
               I am growing sleepy at last. It is late, too, so I shall soon be snugly in bed. Wait—what is it Miss Buddington sings? Oh, yes— 
                     
                        "An' fain wad I marry Marion,
                        Gin Marion wad marry me."
                     
                  
               
               I dare say you would, poor, foolish lover. And so would I. And so would you, gracious madam or my honorable lord.
               Ah, yes,—"Gin Marion wad marry me."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     "Hidden wounds canker none the less deeply."
                  
               
               LAST night a very strange thing happened. A sensation as of somebody or something stirring in the room woke me.
               At first, I was afraid to keep my eyes open, and the temptation was strong upon me to hide my face under the counterpane. But I grew brave, and, putting out my arm, called, "Who's there?"
               My astonishment rose high when somebody fell on bended knees beside the bed, and, catching my hand, kissed it again and again with the greatest tenderness, while tears fell slowly dropping upon it.
               "Who are you?" I cried, struggling to release myself. What a terrible situation, journal dear!
               To be awakened from sound sleep at the dead hour of night, and have one's hand made desperate love to!
               No answer came to my frightened query; but the somebody—whoever it was—got up quickly, and went from the room.
               I sprang out of bed, and darted to the door, but the blackness in that hall staggered my bravery.
               Was it not queer? It could not have been Janet, I thought; for who ever heard of a staid, respectable Englishwoman crying over anybody at such an hour? nor Martha; for she would not have dared do it. I wish there were no such thing as mysteries, and that people, when they wanted, could know all about puzzles.
               I have almost forgotten that the Squire and Captain Mildmay came over to luncheon this morning. The latter, leaving Mr. Briarly to talk to papa, detected me in a corner of our pleasant little summer-parlor. He loitered in, sat down to play listlessly with the contents of my workbox, and asked a question or two about my health, as if he were astonishingly interested in it: finding my interest unawakened by the introduction of which topic, he hit upon the subject that heretofore we have always chosen—the fate of my brother.
               But, with a shuddering cry, I bent lower over my work, and besought him to speak of it never again,—in a few terse words giving him to understand that a reconciliation with papa is altogether hopeless.
               He is a good friend to Bertie and to me, my journal. Many an hour, when the poor fellow would have suffered for companionship in that dreadful town of L——, Captain Mildmay has spent with him. But he is too careless, too reckless a man to stand by us in this time of need, and I feel that no woman could stay her heart on the conviction of his help.
               Alas for him, he is so thoroughly indifferent to the turns of fortune as manifested in his own destiny, he deems others should be taught the lesson as well.
               "Shall you join the party for the Court, in July?" he asked, tangling my skeins of silk.
               "I have no inclination to be of it; no, I think not." A sigh escaped me in the reply, which he may translate as he pleases.
               "But I heard Miss Buddington request you very earnestly to come. She has fallen in love with you, Miss Hope." He said this with some scorn.
               I looked up in surprise.
               "You have not fallen in love with her, it seems."
               "No, by Heavens! and never will."
               "It is good," I answered, smiling, "that you have arrived at your determination in time; report says she will marry a Lord Chester."
               A cloud came across his brow as he heard this, but with a laugh he brushed the hair from his handsome face, to which a flush was rising.
               "She'll wear his title well. Humph, a fine pair they will be! I wonder that you never get desperate at the cursed loneliness of this place, Miss Hope."
               "Of course I do, but how can one help one's self?"
               "Get married!"
               I laughed at the drollery of his tone.
               "It is not I who complain of the loneliness, sir; it is you. And why not yourself seek the remedy?"
               "Bah, marry! Do you think I would do it? Do you think I would have any but the right one,—any but the most beautiful in the kingdom? No, by my faith, I will not link myself to any but her I shall choose to set my heart on."
               "Well—but is it not possible to find her?"
               An odd shadow was growing in his eyes, and a tremor ran through his voice as he said, slowly and deliberately,—
               "Yes, quite possible to find her, but not to marry her. She would refuse me point-blank,—tell me so at once, and show me at once that she would not take me. Do you think I am going to let myself be spurned like a dog?"
               "How do you know she would do that? How do you presume to read so far ahead? Or perhaps you have——"
               He laughed. "Not at all. I know myself so well,—know what a lazy, worthless fellow I am,—therefore understand the opinion in which I am held to such an extent that no woman's beauty can tempt me to put myself at her feet."
               He sat twining his fingers in and out in most fantastic style. A ring fell from his hand, dropped upon the floor, and rolled to my feet. But a single opal stone lay in the setting, and, raising it, I was struck with the odd and curious design of the mounting. The opal was large and handsome; the lustre slept in the flush of its pink and greenish lights. Heretofore I had merely noticed a plain gold band on his little finger.
               "Why have you never turned the setting outside, Captain Mildmay?"
               "Oh," shrugging his shoulders, "I'm not over-fond of jewels. By the way, this bauble has quite a history. It belonged to my mother, Miss Vairin: was her pledge of betrothal, in fact. She gave it into my hands in keeping for my wife; but despairing of its owner ever making her appearance, you know, I have been careless at times, but to no effect. The thing is too sure to turn up, and be the plague of my life; it never has brought me luck, and never will, I'm a thinking."
               "It is very beautiful. You should be more chary of losing it, and ought to put it aside to await the owner's coming."
               I gave it back, not noticing whether he slipped it on securely or not.
               
               Just here comes a break in my writing.
               The interruption came from Janet, who approached me very excitedly.
               "I do believe, Miss Hope," exclaimed she, "Martha's took it on to herself to leave, an' without sayin' a word to nobody."
               "What?" I said, in wonderment. "Why, what makes you think so?"
               "Because for why I ain't laid eyes on her the day; this mornin' I thought mebbe she were gone for a errand, so I didn't say nothin'; but here it's come four o'clock, and she not to set foot near any on us, an' I have searched the house from top to bottom."
               A sudden recollection flashed over me, and I narrated to my old dear the occurrence of last night.
               "You may depend on it," said she, with peculiar emphasis, "it was Martha as was loth to go away. Look a here, Miss Hope, darlin,' I'm afeard the lass was a gettin' too fond of goin' out o'nights. Wunst in the winter I wanted her to help rub the rheumatic out o' my back, an' it was twelve o'clock, an' she not to be found. Well, I waited up, an' long afterwards she came creepin' to her room. It ain't right for a lass to be out o' nights. What ever will your papa say?"
               She went on to the library, but I did not stop to hear the result of her announcement to him.
               Somehow, my first thought is of Mr. Brent.
               With a sickening dread I remember his question, "Who is it opening the gate?" and my answer that it was Martha; then his strangely abrupt "Good-night!" his quick stride into the road, and the easy closing of the gate behind him.
               I do not know why these trifles trouble me so, nor of what nature is the pain that rives my bosom; but now, when the figure of the girl rises before me, and I recall the delicate beauty of her face, it makes me tremble to think of what may be her fate. Janet says the world is very, very wicked; ah, but I will not believe he is one whit less noble than I thought him. Faith in one's king should be somewhat akin to faith in one's God.
               Being tired of writing, and wanting a quiet nook to rest in, I will go for a scramble among the rocks, I believe.
               Oh, rest and quiet, are you to be gained only in the grave?
               So it was poor sad Martha who came to cry over me in the night. I am sorry she has attempted so rash a thing as to dare the broad, wide world—I am very, very sorry.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "Hand stretched out
                        I clasped, as shipwrecked men will clasp a hand,
                        Indifferent to the sort of palm."
                     
                  
               
               I CAME back from that scramble among the rocks yesternoon, and went straight to my own room; there, locked the door, and for hours the battle was a fierce one that was waged in the solitude of that darkened chamber.
               When Janet knocked at the door, I opened it, but, standing on the threshold to bar her entrance, asked, in a strangely unnatural voice, "What do you want?"
               "Dinner's waitin', Miss Hope."
               "But I don't wish any; I want to be let alone," I answered.
               She moved away without a word, though when lighting the lamp, there she came back again, and started in, carrying a tray full of edibles.
               I made a step forward, my face flaming, and a torrent of angry words trembling on my lips.
               At so unusual a sight she set the tray down, saying, in a hurried whisper,—
               
               "My darlin', what ever has happened? You're onlike yourself."
               Before she could reach my side, I was feeling faint and giddy, and leaned staggeringly against the wall.
               My old nurse helped me to bed. I lay there the night through, still and dumb; speechless, too, but for low moans that were wrung from the depth of a great misery.
               Through the lonely hours she sat by my side, bathing my head, and displaying with much tenderness her stock of womanly kindness. It touched me so to see her bending over me with the great tears in her eyes! You cannot reach my pain, poor, poor Janet. It shall ache there until death shall lay me cold and white before you!
               Journal, dear journal, what is it I said about faith in one's king?
               It is all false to say that. There is no faith—none anywhere—except in God.
               Yesterday, the sea lay green and still; so still, as I stood watching a fishing-boat that rocked idly along towards the boundless horizon. The waves would follow each other in, tossing, playing, in shapes of nameless grace.
               The salt breath of the water buoyed me somewhat; but it was not a prospect to make a cheerier break in the thoughts that reigned within my bosom, as the mass of foam beat against the rocks upon shore, only to disperse in myriads of tiny flakes.
               Beautiful as was the shimmer cast by the sunset upon the deep, my eyes would seek that far-away line whose mistiness brought home to me a conviction that all the future is dim and obscure as are those darkening waters, and that, of all my girlish dreams, none can survive the ruin, but will yet be dashed and cleft into fragments, even as the foam that broke and scattered below me.
               I stood upright in the face of the breeze, pushing back my hat, that was struggling to be free.
               "I cannot bear it!" (crying out aloud with breath full of passion.) "Oh that I could die and be at rest!"
               "Poor, purty young leddy!" exclaimed a voice close to my ear. "I'm here to help you out o' ony trouble, miss, bein' if you let me."
               In alarm I turned, to see a man dressed in hunter's garb standing behind. He was tall, lithe-limbed, and full of strength. There was nothing attractive in his features, and as I drew back he said with some triumph, "You don't remember Poacher Bill, do you—the mon as struck down the dirty beast fro' you? I'd do thet, or onythin' else on airth for you, purty miss, let folk say what they like o' me."
               A dreary smile broke over my features. There was no cause for fear—the poor, misused poacher; how sorry I have always been for him! When he told his name, I looked up pleased, and said I hoped, if he needed any assistance, he would let me help him.
               Shaking his head with forcible emphasis, he replied that he did not; and then quite startled my nerves into a flutter by the announcement that he had been lurking around the abbey for two days; stating, as a reason, his intense desire to speak with me upon a subject of the most vital importance.
               "What is it?" I demanded, when, finishing this explanation, he leaned upon his gun, to regard me with keen gaze.
               And then, O journal, I heard from him what has turned my soul sick with horror.
               Like a flash, a new trouble has clashed upon us; originating, too, from a quarter I little expected. It is all clear now: the enmity, the hypocrisy of—O Heavens! to have one's trust betrayed, one's confidence abused!
               If you remember aright, Mr. Brent made a journey to London. The object of that journey is to drag up the old story of the Chester murder, that, God knows, has lain long enough in its grave to have rotted into nothingness. In times past, he cheated us with the pretense of friendship; yet, since my revelation on the moor, he has set himself the task of following up the crime in all its mystery; has at length detected a clue, which, he affirms, when laid before a court of justice, will settle these doubts as to the identity of the murderer, and my innocent brother be again forced to stand under the shadow of the Black Beam.
               Ay, but I defy him to succeed.
               
               How did these facts come into the possession of Poacher Bill? you will ask.
               That fatal night, when the traitor went so softly from our gate, he overtook the girl Martha, on the road between Wildmoor and the abbey; crouching there, behind a thicket, the man overheard a conversation which brands Mr. Brent my brother's arch-enemy and persecutor. He went so far as to accuse our brave Patty of bearing false testimony, when, in the trial for Bertie's life, she was the instrument that saved him, by her unflinching courage. What wiles he must have used to daunt her courageous spirit!
               The result is, that the girl, lured by his miserable promises, has consented to aid and abet his schemes; so he has taken her away to fashion his tool in appropriate manner. I can understand now how he must hate me; and poor, poor papa! why does he pretend this friendship for him?
               So false, so false! Well has he hidden the iron hand beneath a glove of velvet.
               "What can I do?" I cried, wringing my hands in agony. "My brother is gone away."
               "To be a soldier agen?"
               "Yes; but he is not going straight back to the service; he means to loiter along on the continent for a month or two, he said."
               "Can't you write him a line, miss, for to go right fur away?"
               "I wouldn't know if a letter would reach him; he will not remain in a place long at a time, and I dare not let him write to me, and disobey my father. But tell me—how do you know anything of us? We, who have thought to hide this sorrow from every eye, are doomed to find our story upon the lips of all these people, it appears."
               "No, no, young leddy. Martin Cross an' me are sworn to stand by you an' yourn,—he bein' the one as let me into it all,—an' we'd go to the world's eend to find the lad fur you, my purty lass; but, you see, a mon can't stir round the big cities without money."
               "But if you had some?" I exclaimed, eagerly.
               "Then we'd do it,—honest."
               "I have eighty pounds of my own——"
               "Not enough!" and he struck his gun sadly down on the beach. "Poor young gentlemon!"
               "Here, take this," I said, with some hoarseness, tossing him a sparkling diamond from the velvet round my throat, "and wait here till I fetch the money."
               In a trice I was back from the abbey, with my little box of savings. I grasped his hand, while the tears that overmastered me ran down my cheeks.
               "Are you sure you are my friend? They say you are a bad, bad man; but if you swear to find my brother, if you swear to me that you will warn him of his danger, I will trust and believe in you. You are a man who leads a rough life; people are not kind to you—but see, I would help you if you came to me now, as I come to you and beg for your pity. You shall have a purse full of gold when you come back to tell me he is safely away from England. Will you swear to be true?"
               "Miss," he stammered, and the shaggy, uncouth face bowed itself low upon the gun; then looking out at the water, he said, with some feeling,—
               "I swear he'll be safe."
               The glory of the sky paled behind the distant hills, and a tremor passed over me while watching the burly form disappear around a turn of the beach. Existence seemed to me then a blank, a waste; for the home-love that should have brightened my life was colder than the sea I gazed upon. It had grown very dreary away out; true, there were some boats, but they looked a blur upon the waters, while some near the shore flapped their homely sails with but drear, ungainly motion.
               I went home, and in my room fought the desperate fight with a foe who grappled long and fiercely to subdue me. It is all over now. I am calm and brave, and my resolution is to meet the traitor with proud courtesy, yet not upbraid him for his hypocrisy. He shall never smile over the spectacle of my degradation, nor witness my pitiful struggle with sorrow. If it would cost me a sigh less, I will die rather than appeal to his generosity. Think you he would heed my prayer for mercy?
               No! I who read him so well can picture out his triumph. He will cry "Justice!" in my ear, and bid the shout peal abroad until he finds me with all my bright youth flung aside—one of the many wrecks upon shore.
               I have seen him once.
               It was a week ago; two days after the knowledge of his treachery became patent. The meeting took place at Briarly Manor. It was well we were sitting in the twilight when he came in, else I should have betrayed the emotion that overpowered me at sight of his false, traitorous visage.
               He came gayly up, and proffered his hand to me as to the others; but I bowed low, pretending not to see it. His hand! I feel I can never touch it again.
               "You are not well," he said, with gentleness, taking a seat opposite me in the deep, embayed window, "or that grief—is it so hard to bear, Fay?"
               "My griefs are individual ones," I replied, proudly. "I think you will grant me at liberty to fight my own troubles without interference from others."
               His look of pity only filled me with greater dread and hatred.
               "Some day I shall have grown accustomed to this," he returned. "Your scorn and indifference do not pass unnoticed, Miss Vairin, but I trust your conscience always acquits you as readily as I do."
               He moved away to Mrs. Briarly then; and, left alone, I leaned my head against the glass in terror at feeling a mist had risen before my sight.
               The glow of twilight rested on the garden. Thomas came in to light the lamps; but it was only when he strode between me and the casement to lower the curtains, that I joined the others.
               "Hope, dear," called Mrs. Briarly, in her pleasant voice, "Mr. Brent offers to take you home. You know you're uneasy because the groom failed to come on time."
               "I thank Mr. Brent, but do not think Joel will fail me," was my response.
               Then going over to the piano, I played as if to myself; softly, dreamily. But their voices rose above the music:
               "Off to the city again, Mr. Brent? You are grown fond of flitting, it would seem. On the morning train, I suppose?"
               Hearing that, my fingers awoke a crash and a din of the keys.
               "My dear, Mr. Geoffrey is waiting to see you home."
               I turned a little, scarcely planning what to say; and as he listened, a grieved, proud flush rose to his countenance.
               "Mrs. Briarly, will you keep me here to-night with you, please ma'am?"
               "Why, my dear, with pleasure, and downright glad am I of a chance."
               There was more talking before he stood up to go. "Good-night, Miss Vairin," came in a grave tone as he moved to the door. His voice was low and vexed. While raising his hat, I laughed in gladness that any action of mine could stab his pride or make him wince in bitterness of heart.
               As he was preparing to mount, I crept into the hall, and stood there in the shadow of the door. The soft June twilight was almost gone. The grayness of the scene cost me a pang, for it seemed that every object bore the stamp of his treachery.
               Harry, who lounged in one of the upper windows, exclaimed boisterously, "Good-by! good-by!" and pelted him with a shower of roses. The pink and scarlet leaves scattered right and left; falling, some to the ground,—some nestling on his hat.
               "A crowned hero!" laughed Mrs. Briarly. "You should have lived in the days of old, Mr. Brent, and been a gallant knight,—one of those who flew to the rescue of distressed maidens, and performed other wonderful deeds."
               "If I had," his answer was, "I fear the 'distressed maidens' would have tendered me no thanks for my assistance; and in the tilts and jousts my lady-love would have been sure to flout me—discarding my colors for those of the inevitable rival."
               Saying this, he turned towards her, and the house-lamps flashing over his face revealed an expression in which scorn, anger, and bitterness rankled.
               This morning something unusual transpired. A letter arrived from Buddington Court. "What is it?" inquired papa. For answer, I handed it to him.
               Now, journal, it is an urgent request from Maud—the queenly, fair-faced Maud—that I shall make one of the party who are to visit her next week.
               I don't want to be one of them, and could cry with vexation at being compelled to go against my will.
               Papa looked over his spectacles at me.
               "It will be pleasant, my daughter. You must enjoy it all you can, because I don't know that you will have an opportunity of like kind again."
               "But I shall not accept, papa," twirling the violet-scented note in my hand.
               "And why not?"
               "Because, sir, I'm not eager for pleasure now."
               "It is my wish that you go, Hope. Remain a week or ten days; and, without a word to thwart me, make up your mind to obey."
               That ended the matter. Now, journal, old friend, you are to be neglected for awhile, because Janet, the modiste, and myself are to be deep in the task of fashioning the robes in which I am to disport a new young-ladyhood.
               
               I am up with the dawn, and have come into the parlor to seek my old friend for a chat before leaving the abbey. You were mislaid last night, and I beg pardon ever so humbly for my omission.
               We start for Buddington this morning. You are to be my companion, dear journal; aren't you glad?
               I shall try and shake off this load of care when among those strange people; shall try and hardly tell you of my sadness, even, because I want to read one pleasant chapter in my life; and, furthermore, as we are bound to be brought in daily intercourse, no eye shall detect the aversion I bear Mr. Brent. He has fallen too low to comprehend fully the measure of my contempt for him.
               While I write, something glistens at me from the corner yonder. What can it be?
               Journal dear, I stopped a moment to satisfy my curiosity, and what do you imagine I found?
               What but the opal ring!
               Here it goes on my finger: a tight clasp, but no matter. When we meet at the station, I shall ask Captain Mild-may whether he has laid it safely away according to my warning.
               Time to dress! The carriage from Wildmoor is to call at six o'clock. Come, my journal, you must betake yourself to your trunk, and I to don the pretty new suit that lies so temptingly on somebody's bed, in somebody's dear little room!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Sorrow is knowledge; they who know the most
                           Must mourn the deepest o'er the fatal truth,—
                           The tree of knowledge is not that of life."
                        
                     
                     Manfred.
                  
               
               IT is just an hour that I have been astir, and the sun is only now rising.
               Before I would get up, a robin hopped in on the window-ledge, and stood for a second demurely upon one little leg. He chirped a few notes, blinked in lazy fashion at the figure buried amid counterpane and pillows, then hopped out again into the brighter world, where a noise as of flowing water reminded me with a thrill that my eyes had unclosed upon the beauties of Buddington Court.
               Up I sprang, and dressed quickly; then, the twitter of my new friend enticing me to the window, I went to sit there in the whirl of the fresh morning air.
               A scene lies below, fair as valley, river, and mountain can crown any spot of earth. Light morning-wreaths are rising from the peaks, that, as they circle round and round, are lost in the gold and crimson of sunrise. And under the casement, a network of ripples is flashing the bosom of the river; I can see it run on and on,—now winding through a green valley-slope, now brawling amid shelving, flower-turfed banks, and again stealing along with no fairer picture than the blue of heaven to weave cloud and fancy into castle, palace, or poet-dream.
               They say the park and demesnes of the Court are of no vast extent, but the hand of wealth clasping that of taste has combined to create a home of paradisiac refinement.
               The park differs from that of Wildmoor, inasmuch as in it one may stroll from limit to limit, and meet only smoothly-rolling lawn or finely-trimmed shrubbery, while in that of Wildmoor I hold my breath at every rustle of the grass, picturing as present the days when Robin Hood roamed the greenwood, or when the fairies held festals on the grass. There the trees are centuries strong, and one's feet press into brake, copse, or fell of the wildest luxuriance. There the free deer sniff the air, and roam at will through bramble or hawthorn bush. Occasionally, too, in a zone of water, glitters a miniature islet that is covered over with daisies and sprinkled with yellow buttercups.
               I like it better at Wildmoor; but it is because I may lose myself in the bosom of the park and forget the world, where they say people must battle for even the breath that is drawn. Its green silence speaks to me in kindness; never sternly as does the master.
               There, a bell rings.
               I must finish quickly the story of a first day's experience at the Court, else I shall not be in readiness for breakfast. And tardiness will be regarded as a crime; the mere thought causes me to shiver; more particularly as the tall, gaunt lady, whom they present as the Honorable Mrs. Algernon Hightower, presides in majesty at the board.
               Something transpired yesterday on our arrival that has never happened to me heretofore.
               I literally trembled when it came my turn to be announced to the lady, and felt those cold, steel-like eyes measuring me from head to foot. Never before have I stood in awe of a woman; but she—she will transform me into an arrant coward, perhaps.
               A half-day's journey by rail brought us to the Court about two in the afternoon. After the close railway carriage, a drive through lanes and meadow-patches brightened ened up the party wonderfully; when we passed through the shady park avenues, and a gleam like a sun-flash burst upon my vision, I deemed Buddington Court most worthy the eulogies that have been showered upon it.
               The mansion is built after the Grecian style of architecture, and lifts its pure marble front from the bosom of a green dell as a thought replete with grace from the fancy of artist or poet. A flight of steps leads up from the lawn to a broad stone terrace, upon that side of which overlooking the garden stands a fountain with a marble nymph balancing herself on one foot, while above and around her disports a shower of diamond water-drops. On the left side of the terrace, and some feet below, sparkles the river; its surface is flecked with green and golden light that is caught from the mingling of sunshine with the bending foliage of trees. Pretty, forest-grown trees, they lean from either bank to whisper to each other the gossip of wood and glen.
               From the great marble hall, with its tessellated pavement, we passed into the guest-chamber, and were there received by Miss Buddington, Miss Hightower, and the latter young lady's "Honorable" mamma.
               Lady Buddington, pale and languid, reclined upon a divan.
               The Hon. Mrs. Algernon is tall and gaunt, with a face whose charm can never by any chance have lain in its expression; for not a muscle relaxes. You see always the same cold, searching eyes, as if they said (that is, supposing eyes capable of speech), "Now, Mr. or Miss, I have found out something about you! I am surprised, shocked, at the revelation!"
               Then, one ever feels uncomfortable in the lady's presence, wondering what the "something" is, and if she has ferreted "it" out. Is "it" so very frightful in nature as her eyes endeavor to make you believe?
               Her face is long and pale, with a profusion of wiry curls falling upon either cheek; to impart emphasis to her manner, these faded ringlets dance and jerk at times in a way painfully ludicrous to see. There is a stately precision in every fold of the lady's dress, every turn of her collar, and every strand of her gray hair.
               
               I trembled before the first woman that had ever awed me, when, upon being presented, she began a scrutiny first upon the highest plait on my head, thence descending to the hem of my dress; there the hateful eyes paused; and when mine traveled in a similar direction, what was my dismay to behold an ugly rent in the suit over which Janet has tortured eyesight and patience!
               My doom was sealed.
               I felt it when she spoke in her curt, uninviting manner, saying loftily,—
               "Miss Vairin is welcome to the Court:" as much as to imply, "Of course one must be civil to this careless creature."
               Captain Mildmay, who was stationed beside me, just then began to twirl his whiskers with decided indolence; this had the effect of causing the curls to vibrate in a determined movement, and brought upon us both a frown of dire import. But when the lady clasped hands with Mr. Brent, a smile broke over her features; a smile of rather wintry aspect, true; but with Isabel's blushing face at her mother's shoulder, and that manly form in the background, the smile seemed almost pleasant. That is, if my mood had been one to appreciate pleasantry of any nature; but dear, dear, what a sulky, irritable girl!
               I turned away from the trio with a curl of the lip, and, yielding to Miss Buddington's request, left the apartment with her, rejoiced to think that Isabel was to do the honors towards Nell and Miss Lucy.
               The room to which my guide conducted me is the dearest little nook in the world; octagon-shaped, with violet hangings, and clusters of violets scattered along a mossy carpet-ground. The walls are shining white, and the bed so spotless with its coverlet delicate as rose-leaves, and its curtains of silk, that I deemed it perhaps the refuge of some Titania; so stole on tiptoe, parting the draperies, and peering in with bated breath.
               My companion laughed at this enthusiasm of mine, and, withal, seemed to unbend towards me with an air of so sweet graciousness that more irresistibly than heretofore did I feel myself attracted to her. Drawing an ottoman to her feet, I seated myself upon it, and, for the first time in all the months that I have known the haughty girl, felt as if I were nearing the threshold of her heart.
               Noting the admiration in my eyes, she stooped, and, tapping me on the cheek with her fingers, said,—
               "I do believe you are beginning to like me a little."
               "Don't you want my liking, Miss Buddington?"
               "You had better not give it to me," was the answer. "But when they tell you here what a bad, wicked heart is mine, there is no fear of your liking me over well. You do not know me, Hope."
               "And do you think that ill of me? No; if you possessed my affection once, never fear but that it would be forever."
               I hung my head in shame at the recollection of that other love, and the blood, dyeing cheek and temples, burned warmly through my veins.
               For perhaps two hours we discussed the topics most dear to us, ignoring the outer world, until there came a tap at the door, and Isabel glided in without pausing for our permission.
               "Not dressed for dinner yet, Miss Vairin?" exclaimed she. "Why, Maudie, the bell rang some time ago."
               She glanced down admiringly at her robe of silk, and fluttered a billowy white fan, while an atmosphere of perfume rolled towards me.
               "I forget you have no maid," she added. "I'll ring for Barbour to assist in your toilet."
               "No, no," cried I, in some desperation, as she turned to leave the apartment. "Pray don't trouble yourself. I can get on quite well alone."
               The mere vision of "Barbour" puts me in a fever. I, who have been only accustomed to Janet,—why, what could I do with a tall maid darting around me, "doing my hair" into a caricature, and having quite her own way in hooking my garments or donning my ribbons?
               Indeed, too, I have fallen into an uncomfortable mode of fancying that anybody connected with the Hightowers must of necessity be as tall, as gaunt, and as cross-grained as the honorable lady herself. A sneer found its way to Miss Buddington's lips.
               "It is indispensable, certainly, that ladies shall be attended by these desirable young persons called maids; they are so good at ferreting out a mistress's secrets,—of course, trafficking them for like commodities. Ugh! I'd as soon cherish a viper as employ your Barbour, Belle."
               The young lady resented this slur upon her favorite, and thereupon quite a war of words ensued, until at last she swept in dignity from the room.
               "Interesting, isn't it?" exclaimed Maud. "You have no idea, you little innocent, what a congenial family circle we form. Don't look solemn, Hope.
               "Ah, you are beginning to see the black shadows on my soul already; but I told you I was mean and despicable as is compatible with my gracious ladyhood, and that is not saying much. You need not tell me it is unamiable and unchristianlike, and so forth. I know it, but thank Heaven I am no hypocrite, at all events; that girl, with her soft, oily tongue, is odious to me, so I take no pains to conceal it."
               She walked to the window, and murmured as if to herself, "George Eliot is right; God was cruel when He made women!"
               She left the casement, and went towards the door, saying with vehemence, "If I were a man——"
               "What would you do?" asked I, planting myself before her and grasping her hands.
               "What would I do? Why, fling off my shackles, thus!" And she threw my hands from her, while the old hard look stole to her countenance, and the light faded from her eyes.
               "Is not every woman a slave?—bound, some, by golden fetters, but nevertheless bound. I am sick of it. If I were a man, I would cast them all off, and be true to myself. True to myself! Being a woman, those words are only a mockery.
               "But make haste to dress, Hope. It is late; besides, dinner, under Aunt Emily's supervision, admits of no delay."
               We were not the last on the way down. Isabel came smiling and softly rustling to the staircase, looking very beautiful in pale evening silk, with her gloom of hair turned back from the brow by golden arrows. And Nell came skipping along, and slid her arm into mine, as she chirped in her least sensible 
                     syle
                     style
                   of the beauties of Buddington.
               "Isn't it nice, Miss Hope? Nothing gloomy or horrid, you know; no ghosts, or old rickety chairs and cabinets, that one must keep because one's great-grandmother owned."
               The dining-hall is grand, the ceiling bright with fresco-work, and the doors of rich mahogany, inlaid each with mirrors that at every turn reflected the board glittering with fruits, flowers, and silver. What a flash and a sparkle when the guests sat around in their gay summer garments! Contrary to expectation, Sir Edgar Buddington is a small man. Be it understood, journal, I mean in stature only; otherwise he deems himself of giant-like proportions.
               (I always find that, in our imagination, people are pigmies when they are sure to exhibit themselves the reverse, and vice versa.)
               Sir Edgar is diminutive, but pompous. He carries his head high in air, wears tall hats, and quite possibly leaves directions that an extra heel or two be added to his patent-leathers.
               I have already detected that he snubs his invalid wife (who sat crouching beside him, undecided whether to call for a second joint of fowl or not), to be snubbed in turn by his sister—the honorable dame who, for a number of years, has ruled this household with sway of iron.
               They say that Sir Edgar yields to none but this sister, and how it is she has acquired the supremacy no tongue may guess.
               After a moment of hesitation, Lady Buddington mustered courage sufficient to whisper, "Another wing of chicken, Thomas," in the ear of the tall, solemn-visaged serving-man.
               But inaudible as was the whisper, it penetrated the tympanum of the sharpened ears at the table's head. The lady magisterially shook her ringlets, saying with a professional air as of one who scouted ignorance upon any subject,—
               "My dear Marion, be very prudent."
               Poor, meek Lady Buddington blushed, and toyed with her fork much as a scolded child would have done. But Maud bit her lip furiously, and, by some manœuvre managing aging to secure the craved article, enjoyed the satisfaction of placing it upon her mamma's plate.
               Mrs. Algernon waxed angry, and very irate she was, too. She cast a glance of withering scorn upon mother and daughter; and if a look might annihilate mortal, surely Sir Edgar would have been then and there a dead man. As it was, he looked a trifle uncomfortable, doubtless expecting to receive the brunt of this incident at some future time upon his devoted head; but that extremely British part of his nature consisting mainly of hard-headedness could not repress a glimmer of satisfaction from appearing in his manner, owing to the fact that for once the conqueror was conquered.
               There are other guests here whom yesterday I did not know, but as the seat assigned me happened to be next that of a dashing and original admiral's daughter,—Miss Willoughby (a lady, perhaps, who has turned the fatal corner, and is consequently designated by sympathetic people as being of doubtful age),—I managed to hear any noticeable facts connected with the histories of aforesaid strangers.
               "Pray tell me," I asked, in a whisper, "who is that exceedingly stupid-looking young man with the red hair and the eye-glass; the one seated next Miss Buddington?"
               "That exceedingly stupid-looking young man," she repeated, looking archly at me, while a wicked smile hovered around the corners of her mouth,—"that young man with the red hair and the eye-glass happens to be my cousin."
               I looked aghast.
               "I won't quarrel with you, Miss Vairin, for being candid enough to express an opinion; you have not been long in society, I presume."
               I could have bitten my tongue off for its silly speech, but refrained from perpetrating so intense a sacrifice,—anyhow, until I had accomplished my dinner.
               "Good gracious, how you are blushing!" exclaimed my companion. "Let me give you a piece of advice, my dear: don't do anything so inartistic as to blush; it shows your verdancy, and that'll never do for your prospects. But see, there's Charles looking your way with all his eyes. Depend on it, I'll not tell him of your severe criticism, so, if you're a mind to flirt, there will be a case to commence upon directly. Lively girls must flirt, you know. Charles is an ensign of the guards, if you please. Not very deep, but he'll do to while away a week or two with very agreeably in a dull country-place with a lot of stupid Britishers."
               She smiled at my perplexed countenance.
               "I speak my mind freely, don't I? But pray tell me all about that splendid Mr. Brent over yonder by Isabel. I believe I'll fall in love with him, but I dare say there would be no chance for me now. He has caught the pretty, silly bait already. They met abroad, didn't they? Folks do say it is sure to be a match. Don't you think him splendid?"
               "No," I replied, shaking my head, and then stared hard at the upper end of the table where sat Mr. Brent paring fruit for his neighbor; she received the peach with an air of much grace, and nibbled at a few hot-house grapes that he pressed upon her acceptance.
               "Why, where are your eyes? He might pass for a young viking, with that tall, athletic form, and the noble cast of features. Not handsome, certainly, but a look far better than mere physical beauty rests on that countenance. All I can say is, Isabel is a lucky girl!
               "But how can you, Miss Vairin, fancy Maud? She's a beauty, true, and has been vastly admired in her day; once was presented at court, and created quite a sensation. I wonder will she ever marry Lord Chester? For my part, I think her extremely disagreeable, and between you and me nothing would better please me than to see her pride lowered an inch or two."
               "Then, why will you pretend to a friendship," I asked, a little stiffly, "that you do not feel? Hypocrisy, above every other failing, is meanly detestable."
               With a wrinkling of the brows, and a laugh, she answered,—
               "What a poor little mouse it is! It is easy to perceive, my dear, how very unsophisticated you are. Why, if you must know, Buddington Court is a charming place to visit. The cellar is stocked with rare old wines, the table supplied with fine game, and the family, having lived on the continent tinent for a number of years, derives therefrom a sort of eclat. It gives one prestige, you know, to announce to one's friends, 'I'm booked for a week's stay at Buddington,' or that 'that dear, delightful Maud has presented me with a charming present.' You don't know the world as I do, child. You see I am quite twenty-eight now, and since fate has denied me a husband so far, I must kill time as well as have an eye to any prospects that may open for me."
               Perhaps the sensation of disgust that arose in my mind became pictured on my face, for, with a smile full of glee, she continued,—
               "Wait till you're losing youth and good looks, my dear; just wait. You may even be induced to cast favorable eyes on that graybeard yonder who is playing the gallant to Miss Brent. By the by, what a sweet, storied face she has! one that is full of memories of other days, and, I should judge, memories that are not altogether joyous."
               Gazing in the direction indicated, there was Miss Lucy's placid countenance with just a shade of weariness depicted upon it; she seemed endeavoring to appear interested in the platitudes of an elderly gentleman. He is extremely quaint, both in garb and manner: one of that old school of gentlemen who (as Dickens says) have never been young. He is very tall, very thin and spare, with a bald crown on his head where age is beginning to wield a kingly sceptre. His garments are black, the waistcoat advancing high up to his throat, and pushing a collar higher still where it almost encircles a chin dotted with tufts of gray beard.
               I must laugh now at the queer, comical figure.
               "Do you know who he is?" whispered Miss Willoughby. "No other than the great Mr. Dacre!"
               "And who is Mr. Dacre?"
               "Heavens! Never to hear of that learned antiquarian and searcher into the bowels of the earth, whence he brings up all sorts of dirty reptiles and crawling horrors! Surely, Miss Vairin, you have read his fourth volume on 'The History of Fossilized Insects'? Very probably he'll take you a turn into the world before Noah; but take care you don't precede him into the Land of Nod, my dear.
               "That very awkward girl over there by Guy is Miss Dacre. You perceive I am well posted in the gossip of the day when I tell you that rumor has it the old gentleman is excessively anxious to bestow a mother upon his forlorn-looking daughter; and that, having initiated Miss Brent into all the mystery of insect decay when they met in Paris last autumn, he is still further prepared to unfold new and startling theories upon the same subject. But there you are watching Isabel and her lover, and your cream melting fast away. Won't you have another ice? Take care, Miss Vairin; eyes sometimes betray, and you mayn't find it so agreeable to fall into the cat's paws; though they are velvety, they scratch deep."
               "What do you mean?" stammered I.
               The ladies were rising from table, and soon had left the gentlemen to their wine and cigars.
               "Oh, nothing, only be on your guard. The cat always catches the poor, innocent little mouse."
               There was no time to comment upon the meaning of her words, for Miss Buddington drew my arm through hers and led the way out to the garden. The light of day was already changing its gold to a paler tint. After the clamor of that boisterous party, a stroll along beds of heliotrope and marguerites was as balm to the spirit. A gleaming Diana was discernible through the foliage where we walked; here and there a fountain, and once a kneeling Pan came within range of my vision.
               This garden is like a poem,—so replete with grace and culture. Clumps of rhododendrons here display themselves with flowers all in blossom. In red and violet tints they glitter when the sun is upon them, and sway their petals to and fro beneath the humming song of the bees. Bushes of azaleas guard the walks; urns and vases of marble bear a profusion of blooms that, creeping away in very luxuriance of growth, lose themselves amid the dark-green leaves.
               There, too, is a pretty summer-house where are grapes ripe and rich; and, upon the garden-walls, sprays of nasturtium are bathing their flaming hearts in the cool of the vines. There are beds of tall white lilies standing up with brow of purity; and roses, red and rare, greeted us, past which we went in silence until at last I heard them whispering, and fain would tell my companion of the homage they rendered her beauty.
               "Maud, what is it that Tennyson writes?— 
                     
                        'Come out, little head, sunning over with curls,
                        Come out to the roses and be their queen!'
                     
                   He meant you, my queen blossom! Sit here on this throne, and I will teach the flowers to crown their sovereign. See, the tall 'cloth of gold' are bowing humbly before you, and as for the 'Prince Albert,' they redden to their very hearts with envy."
               She humored my whim, and seated herself upon a bank of violets. While wreathing the blossoms, I sang snatches of the melody that would haunt me when in her presence; then laid the garland upon her head, and, kneeling, clasped my hands on her lap. Latterly Miss Buddington has evinced only tenderness—a strange, new tenderness—towards me. While I peered long and lovingly into her face, I said,—
               "What a woman you are! If I were a man, Maud, I should go mad for love of you."
               She smiled down on me from her royal height, took my hand and pressed it in hers, and then, detecting that unfortunate ring upon my finger, she bent down to examine it.
               Oh, dear, it pressed hard on the flesh! and, though I laughed outright when she slipped the setting around, there was pain tingling along, too.
               When the opal, so large and lustrous, glittered before her, Maud leaned closer, to wonder at the oddity of the mounting, perhaps; but the color flared up in her cheeks, and she clinched my hand as with a vice.
               "Where did this come from?" she asked.
               For the life of me I could scarcely have repressed that cry of pain. Great Heavens! why should a trifling incident such as this transform my queen-rose into a fury? Rising from her throne, she stooped over me, and her touch was mercilessly fierce. There was a sudden wrench, and then I seemed to be slipping away from the light and the violets and the roses. But I got up from among the lilies where Maud had thrown me, crushing me terribly, too, in the endeavor to disentangle myself.
               I could see the green and golden glare of the jewel as she held it for a time to the light; then the flash faded. For one moment the beautiful eye gazed up at her where she had flung it in a frenzy upon the ground,—gazed at her as if it were a living thing and she had bruised it.
               "The poet tells us it is 'a pear with a soul in it,'" she muttered; "truly, though, 'tis misfortune's stone. No matter what, I will crush it to the death."
               Pressing her heel upon it, she ground the jewel into atoms.
               "You need not have done that," said a voice, in proximity so close we involuntarily started; "the soul was crushed from it years ago." And Captain Mildmay lifted his cigar from his lips, and, coming up to Maud, continued, "Yes, and crushed from it by a lady fair as you are fair, beautiful as you are beautiful. Miss Buddington, do you not know who was that lady fair, or shall I tell you how the light faded from the opal years ago?"
               "Tell me nothing," she returned with hauteur, waving him aside and going up to the end of the walk.
               He knocked a few ashes from his cigar, replaced it between his teeth, stooped to pluck a violet, then, with very deliberate motion, sauntered down the path.
               "Insolently heartless!" exclaimed Maud, as she threw herself in the grass beside me.
               "Do you know what I wish, Hope? I wish we two were able to break away from all these people, and live on some far-away island of our own, like enchanted princesses in a story. Though you must despise me now, after what has happened, I acknowledge that I love you more dearly than I had ever thought to love another being in the world. At least, forgive me."
               But, with a sob, her head sank on my bosom, and with my arms about her the haughty girl cast off her pride, and wept bitterly.
               "Wait here awhile," she said, when the storm of passion had spent its force. "I must air these red eyes before we go to the house, and so will take a turn in the path yonder."
               I sat waiting there on the bank, half hidden by the grass, until, in the gloaming, I recognized the figure of the captain, again strolling down the garden-walk. Rejoicing that my chance for an explanation was at hand, I ran towards him, saying,—
               "Captain Mildmay, I am so glad you have come. Your ring was on my hand, of course——"
               But there I stopped, drew a low breath, turned, and fled back to my shelter.
               A blunder indeed; it was Mr. Brent, and he had given me a look so barbed with anger, that I hated him a tithe stronger for it.
               Presently there floated in air the sound of a woman's voice. I saw Isabel standing in the midst of the tall white lilies, chatting to her companion with much naïveté.
               "Shall I give you a flower, Cousin Geoffrey? Here is a pretty white bud."
               "It resembles you, ma belle," he said, when, bowing low and taking it from her, he fastened the rich, glowing leaves in his coat.
               I could distinguish their outstretched hands. She could not be fond of him, journal, if she knew him as well as do we.
               The dusk fell as if with a shock. One star blazed in the west. There was a rush of perfume from the lilies, and a chirp from a belated thrush. The lights were coming and going through the house, whose windows were thrown wide.
               Maud came for me, and, hurrying along the box-edged path, we were met by the captain. In the hall Mr. Brent passed us. He halted, and faced about as if to speak; but with a flow of gayety I jested with Captain Mildmay, then ran lightly up the steps without a word for him, or so much as a nod.
               If he knew the bitterness that rankles in my soul——
               There! Maud taps at the door, and, journal darling, you must bear your solitude, while I go with her to encounter—whom,—friends, or foes?
               The bell rings sharply again. That honorable lady is impatient; so good-by.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "I pray thee peace; I will be flesh and blood;
                        For there was never yet philosopher
                        That could endure the toothache patiently;
                        However they have writ the style of gods
                        And made a pish at chance and sufferance."
                     
                  
               
               IT is night now.
               To-day's events have tired me so; but nevertheless, dear journal, I am eager to pour into your precious old ear all that has transpired since your pages were closed this morning.
               When I wrote there my last words, and cautioned you to be still in your corner, and to behave like a darling, old-fashioned confidante, for that I was going down-stairs to eat my breakfast,—when telling you all this, journal dear, I little thought there had dawned so eventful a day.
               But, indeed, I have much to narrate, so do listen with all your good heart.
               This morning, the company were discussing over their coffee the details of an excursion that had been hastily planned, and that was to be as hastily carried into execution. It was an excursion to a belt of woodland some miles away,—a wood stretching down to the river-slope, and famous for its growth of wild berries and flowers.
               So, eager lips chimed in with suggestions, and eager eyes revealed their gladness, at the prospect of a revel in the greenwood. A wagon-load of edibles should precede the carriages, they resolved; and as Isabel clamored for a rustic tea-drinking, it was decided that the sports of the day should be wound up with a gathering under the trees, where the merriment would be heightened by the singing of a real, old-fashioned tea-kettle, to the music of a crackling, old-fashioned wood fire.
               When the arrangements were completed, the girls scampered away upon duties innumerable,—all, with the exception tion of Miss Dacre. This young lady appears to like me somewhat, for when the others had dispersed, she came to me with a shy look, and requested me to bear her company to the garden.
               But a maid intercepted us on the way, with the plea that Lady Buddington (who is never allowed to breakfast at table) desired the pleasure of an interview with a couple of the young ladies. And wouldn't we please accede to her mistress's request? she wasn't particular, oh, dear, no.
               Accordingly we followed the girl, who guided us through a labyrinth of galleries and corridors, until ushered finally into a lady's boudoir. Nothing more nor less than a gilded cage it is, with draperies of maize-colored satin, and chairs and couches to match. Cornices and mirrors, in frames of gilt, deck the walls; a pair of Venetian vases on the mantel are singularly chaste in design. How negligently, too, the étagère, with its host of toys, leans beside the harpsichord! There are heads of the Madonna, from the brushes of both Murillo and Da Vinci,—these I liked best of all the appointments of the room.
               Beside the casement, a canary swings upon his perch, and was then warbling a melody in full-throated joy.
               All the visions of a Sybarite would float before me, were I the tenant of chamber so dainty.
               Lady Buddington reclined upon a couch, a picture of fair and placid sketching. There is scarcely a line upon her forehead, but many a hollow in her cheek, so pale, and many a care-mark about her lips.
               What ails her? I wondered at first.
               They tell me her disease is a sort of constitutional weakness; that she has always languished; is now in a state of general debility, and is pronounced by all to be sinking into a decline.
               Friends and doctors, of course, differ as to the cause of my lady's ill health, but invariably drift back to the theory of "constitutional weakness."
               I wonder, if the histories of these many women who have gone down to their graves with the sting of a crushed and disappointed life were investigated, how many verdicts would there be rendered,—"constitutional weakness"?
               The invalid greeted us with a smile, and feebly motioned to a couple of chairs that seemed to be bewailing their vacancy.
               And then and there we were made to sit through a long and tedious preamble of platitudes, appertaining to the weariness attending a state of protracted ill health.
               My lady's voice, being delicate, is highly monotonous. It purls along from one sentence to another, with a disdain of periods, commas, or colons.
               We were also entertained by a review of the many years that have witnessed the self-sacrifice and devotion practiced by Mrs. Hightower in the Buddington family.
               She had volunteered to relieve the mistress of the Court of her household duties; and since the demise of the Hon. Mr. Algernon Hightower, this has proven the lady's normal mission.
               Sir Edgar owes her a debt of gratitude. True, she has her "ways;" but where is the mortal who has not? She is characterized by extreme dignity, and upholds the family honor as it should be upheld.
               I thought to myself, though, how pleasant it would be to thrust the Hon. Mrs. Algernon and dignity from the house; and was sure Lady Buddington's spirits would float lightly in gladness, when upon glancing around the room I found that the casements were all closed and the breeze outside in vain struggling for entrance. The bird on his perch seemed to be growing restless, as through the panes he could catch a gleam of sunshine or a vision of a thrush swinging on some old elm. I was beginning to thank Fate for the extraordinary stock of patience she had bestowed on me during that interview, when Maud appeared at the open door.
               "Why, you poor mamma!" exclaimed she. "Who has been smothering you in this fashion?"
               "Don't, my love," faintly whispered Lady Buddington, as Maud threw up the sash. "Emily closed them all; the morning air, you know, is too strong for me."
               "Nonsense! Now, is not that delightful?" And she flung wide the other windows, arranging the satin curtains and the floating lace that was stirred by the wind.
               We breathed a new atmosphere, and were just settling for a cosy little confab, when upon the scene no less a personage than the honorable dame herself appeared.
               She advanced majestically, and, with a glance of suspicion, eyed each individual of the group as if, scenting a conspiracy, she felt that it devolved upon her to pronounce each and every one of us a ringleader thereof.
               "What do I see?" she said, with tone of emphasis. "Your windows and door open, Marion; and the doctor prohibits exposure to draughts! I am astonished, positively astonished, at your carelessness! I may say it is a direct flying in the face of Providence. When I was a girl, people knew how to take care of their health. They shall be instantly closed."
               But Maud sprang up with angry gesture.
               "I took the liberty of disobeying your injunction, Aunt Emily. The atmosphere of this room was stifling when I entered it. Permit me to disagree with the doctor, but, as one must have fresh air, the windows remain as they are."
               For a moment the elder regarded the younger lady with an expression of contempt supreme; then, without a word, went to the casement and put up her hand to draw it down.
               But Maud was too agile for her. Lightly she sprang to the field of contest, and, grasping the disputed sash in both hands, held it with a strength that, from a sad experience, I knew was not to be gainsaid.
               And there, side by side, towered the foes. The scene would have been ludicrous, were it not that bitter malice rankled in the hearts of both.
               Mrs. Algernon grew wroth, and wondered if Maud possessed the filial regard natural to some daughters, or if she would constrain her to report to Sir Edgar this heartless disobedience.
               (I noticed that the louder the lady's voice grew in tone the taller her figure grew in stature.)
               She further went on to wonder if Maud considered herself well up in the performance of duty. When she was a girl, elders never lacked for respect and deference!
               Then she demanded of us all (her question made me quake) if she were not competent to decide on a matter for which her many years of self-sacrificing devotion fitted her pre-eminently.
               A dead silence.
               And in indignation the lady gathered herself up still higher and marched away.
               Awkward Miss Dacre fidgeted, as if she were wondering for what on earth were feet and hands created; more particularly hers, since she had not the first idea where to deposit them.
               Lady Buddington sank wearily back upon her pillow, and I, seeing that the victorious antagonist wished to pass no comment upon the scene, took up a book and pretended to read.
               Suddenly a stir pervaded the house. The girls were dispersing in order to make ready for our proposed jaunt. So we, too, issued forth for a similar purpose. Maud and Miss Dacre were safely deposited within their apartments, and I nearing mine, when there was a jerk given to my dress, and a voice spoke:
               "Oh, if you please, miss, would you be so kind as to show me what's wrong about this?"
               It was the voice of the obnoxious Barbour, who, standing in the doorway of Isabel's dressing-room, held towards me a flounced blue muslin, with her thumb upon an ugly rent, made still more ugly by an unsightly patch upon it.
               "I never was a hand at darning, miss; and now to think mebbe I've ruined it out and out! Miss Isabel 'll be so mad! I had to iron out these ruffles, miss; and to think of my awkwardness in making a tear just in the front. Dear, dear, what will I do? and she wants it to-day!"
               Her eyes were wet and heavy.
               Poor thing! I wonder she should have come to me with her trouble.
               It was late, and the others were fast making ready; but fortunately, being an adept in producing rents in my own garments, I have learned to darn them swiftly as well as neatly. With a few hasty words I ripped the stitches, and with flying needle commenced to close up the gap.
               "Oh, if you please, miss," said the maid, "I can be doing your hair."
               With a nod of assent from me (what mattered it how I looked?) she unplaited the braids, and combed them out a glittering heap upon my shoulders.
               
               "Barbour!" impatiently called a voice from the inner room, "bring my dress; quick, do you hear, stupid?"
               The girl dropped a strand she was weaving into a braid, and went in to soothe her mistress.
               Faster flew the needle.
               I could distinguish Isabel's hasty, fretful complainings as the maid was called upon to arrange this or adjust that; and finally she was ordered to pull down the coiffure, over which some labor had been expended, and re-arrange it. At last, with a free breath, I threw aside the muslin, and crossed the hall to gain my own room. Miss Brent stood in her doorway, quite ready. She looked up as I passed, and smiled.
               "Why, here is an Ophelia bereft of her madness," said she. "What mean these flowing ringlets, Hope?"
               "That I shall be left at home as a punishment for my tardiness. I shall have to be quick, shall I not?"
               Of course, dear journal, because the time was almost up, and I, hurried to an extreme, of course nothing went right for me.
               Pins bent, hair-pins were either too large or not large enough; and, like a careless girl as I am, a button was wanting here, or an eye there. To crown all, my plaits tumbled down—a mass of confusion.
               I was well-nigh distracted, and pondered for just two minutes whether it would be wise to stride up and down, tearing it out by handfuls, as they do in tragedies. Concluded it not wise, though; and Miss Lucy's entrance, as my good angel, then and there put a check on all maniacal procedures.
               Shall I ever forget how beautifully she smoothed away my ill temper and hooked up my dress, or how placidly she lifted my hair into a crown of loveliness, almost making me fall in love with myself? Oh, dear, if I could have Miss Lucy as a shield between me and the world, no fear of my being a trial to any one!
               The party were stowed away in three carriages, with Captain Mildmay and Mr. Dacre in a pony-chaise. In the phaeton to which they consigned me were Eleanor Brent, Guy, and young Ensign Willoughby.
               What with responding to the silly speeches of the latter, and with admiring the scenery along our route, the drive was tolerably fair. When a turn of the road would bring us into view of a hollow down the mountain-side, or of a hill, we would all stand up (Guy holding Nell to prevent her from being jolted), and express our admiration with vehemence. And when once he with a laugh in his eye briskly touched the restive horses and precipitated us all in the wrong direction, I did not think it at all strange that by the merest accident Nell was discovered, with a face deep in blushes, struggling from his arms.
               The phaeton was the last to deposit its burden. There were the others already strolling away to the woods. The spot where we were to dine was in a hollow, with a belt of trees circling it; through them came a gleam of the river winding between its banks so silvery bright.
               The grass was soft as velvet; the skies a world of loveliness; birds went singing above us; yet that charming nook, with its silence, and myriads of trees, and its softly-plashing river, stirred a sensation of unrest within me. I fear the tears were very deep in my eyes as the flutter of dresses and the ripples of laughter floated from the woodland.
               Those hill-sides are clothed with the scarlet and black of berries. The dells are a wilderness of rose, wild clematis, and ivy that grows in masses over the trunks of trees. Yet all the beauty was dark, dark; for to-day has been a very sad one to me.
               Sad, and yet I know not why, except that there lies on my heart a vague, dim consciousness of sorrow coming I shudder when I think what an hour may tell me.
               The sun shone brightly, true; but the time, perhaps, will dawn when its light shall be quenched in darkness.
               The birds sang with carols of joy. Ah me! soon, too soon, shall their song be hushed and broken, I fear.
               I have come to know my heart, of late; have read there its miserable story; but I—I did not mean this should happen. Oh, journal, you know we have been so used to think of him as far away from my reach,—yet I have given him this great, proud love of mine, and did not understand what a harvest it was sowing for the onward years!
               
               And I should have been strong where I was only weak. For months ago I knew he was growing dear, far too dear to me. He was kind to me then,—oh, so kind! But I knew well it was merely a sympathy, or a courtesy towards one who had come—a stranger—under his notice.
               Yes, I have known it all; yet loved him then, and—oh, shame—cannot quite put it from me; but by and by I will be brave and strong; the sight of his false, wily face shall teach me to despise him.
               It was not these thoughts alone that in the tangled woods came to give me pain. Others drove along, fast and furious. If that blow should fall on my brother,—this is the sorrow from which I shudder; a fear, a torturing fear possesses me that all is not well with him. How long indeed is the pain to last?
               Strolling among the roses, looking up now and then at my queen's beautiful face, the shadow of trouble fell dimly across my path. Oh, heaven, if the end were only come!
               Ensign Willoughby attempted numberless abortive efforts at a compliment. I, at least, was deaf to his honeyed accents; and then he launched into a tirade against the prevailing and universal mediocrity of mind as evinced by young ladies of the present age.
               Maud scathed him with a look, and the remark that young ladies of the present age were quite up to the style of modern young gentlemen; inasmuch as if in conversation he proved them dull and prosy, it was only to level themselves on a par with the company to be entertained. Then, perhaps thinking that he had selected an unexceptionable topic, he said what a fine place it was to picnic; but that bait also failing to take, he turned aside, and engaged Miss Lucy in an interesting little conversation about the weather.
               I never knew Miss Buddington so haughty and so ironical as she was to-day; wit and sarcasm sprang from her lip sharp and glittering as flashes of summer lightning from a storm-cloud. It caused me a pang to see them all wince before her. I missed, too, the half-kind, half-nonchalant attention of Captain Mildmay; for he devoted himself assiduously to Miss Dacre, and to her alone of all the party.
               Under the influence of kindly notice, Miss Dacre gave promise of blooming into fragrant blossom; her cheeks would flare up now and then into scarlet, and her eyes glow and brighten wonderfully. And the girl to whom a few hours ago you could have rendered no higher service than help her hide in a corner, sat quite at her ease, replying in graceful tone to the questions of her new-found admirer.
               Dinner was over. The ladies were trifling over strawberries-and-cream; the gentlemen lounging and smoking cigars.
               Unseen I slipped away, and wandered along until there caught my eye a little nook sheltered by vines and softened by banks of turf; there, seating myself and leaning back against a tree, I closed my eyes as if to sleep. But the sound of footsteps rustled the grass and leaves. I shrank farther to the river until the intruders should pass on, and managed to get myself in a distressingly uncomfortable attitude so as to avoid detection.
               And to think that Mr. Dacre and Miss Brent should pause before my retreat, and continue a conversation not intended for any ears save their own!
               The gentleman had more than ever an air of the old school adhering to him. His pale face seemed paler, his gray hair grayer, and his white neckcloth whiter than heretofore.
               What do you think, journal dear?
               He positively had the audacity to lay himself and his fossilized insects at my poor Miss Lucy's feet!
               And of course was refused point-blank. Natural, certainly.
               However, Mr. Dacre is no impetuous lover. A man who has compiled four volumes on God's little creatures can be content to bide his time, he says, and await in patience his lady's pleasure.
               It appeared very ludicrous to me, crouching there beneath the vines, and holding my breath for fear it should reach them.
               There rested a look of pain on Miss Lucy's countenance as she in vain endeavored to convince him that "No" must and ever should be her answer. He insisted upon ascertaining if there were any rival in the field.
               There was not, she replied.
               
               Had there ever been any one who succeeded in gaining her affections?
               And that gentle, tender heart of hers, which in its life can never have wounded mortal, told him the truth. Yes, she had loved in former years with all of woman's fervor.
               And why was she still Miss Brent?
               (You provoking man, thought I, can you not see how you are torturing your victim?) Was he dead, or was he false?
               He was dead.
               The fair eyes looked up beyond the trees, as if they saw there what mortal eyes only behold in dreams. He was dead, but his memory lived green and beautiful in her heart of hearts. He was dead, but throughout her life, and when the loneliness of old age would be creeping over her, she may keep her lover—young always. He would never grow old, but rather would come in visions to adorn her life with new and budding hopes.
               O love, how beautiful and fair thou art!
               My posture was growing more and more uncomfortable. Then it occurred to me that a viper perhaps would glide from out the grass!
               I should have screamed, indeed I should, and, in consequence thereof, have been forced to throw myself upon the generosity of Miss Lucy. Happily, none obtruded.
               Mr. Dacre prosed on, looking very much as if he were suddenly interested in the dead lover as being a specimen for a passage into fossilization. Indeed, I have noticed that he pricks up his ears and displays a feint of animation whenever the topic of conversation chances to fasten upon that gloomy subject.
               I managed to cram my handkerchief in my mouth to refrain from laughing outright; for it was much as if the little god Cupid were playing at a hob-and-nob with a death's-head.
               When they passed on finally, I started up in relief; but my head ached, and there was a burning sensation in my eyes not at all pleasant.
               The others were seated upon the grass in a circle, laughing much, and chatting.
               Miss Buddington seemed to be holding court as sovereign ruler of the group. There was brilliancy in every feature ture and in every imperious gesture; her wit and repartee sheathed their scorn beneath words elegant and sparkling, but mockery was there rankling under the surface.
               "Let us play at law," suggested Captain Mildmay from his position beside Miss Dacre. "We'll have a trial-scene, and try Queen Beauty for her murder of our hearts over and above our bodies!"
               Isabel protested that it would be charming, and created quite a stir in her anxiety to ascertain who should be chosen to fill the throne.
               The captain rose, in his hand a garland, and advanced a step towards Maud.
               "Will Miss Buddington," he exclaimed, holding the coronal over her head, "accept the crown and sceptre as queen of beauty, queen of hearts?"
               She made no reply, but her cheek paled somewhat, and her head bent as if granting him the desired permission. He raised the flowers lightly over her, and was about to lay them, all dew-spangled and gorgeous, upon those tresses of gold, when with a little scream Nell started to her feet, and dashed the wreath upon the ground.
               "Oh, how horrid of you!" she cried. "Your crown is full of cypress, Captain Mildmay, and that, you know, means death."
               The latter word came panting forth with a little shiver. Death! The sorrow of it came vividly before me. I think each one of that circle felt a thrill in his breast, for the happy voices ceased their laughter, and the happy faces took on a shade of gravity. Almost every eye upturned to its neighbor as if indeed death had glided among us, and was standing at the feast with pallid brow and lip of mockery.
               The captain was the first to speak.
               He lifted the garland and said, "Why, pretty Miss Nell, are you given to raising hobgoblins? What would a grim spectre have in common with a merry crowd such as we? Come, will none of you ladies share my trouble? Then, here goes!"
               With a laugh, he twined the rejected crown, all in its garb of roses and cypress, around his hat-band, and resumed his seat.
               
               How superbly handsome he was to-day, amid that fair bevy of women, with a background of trees and waving grass! His postures are always indolent, but they lack neither in grace nor courtesy.
               I pressed my hand to my eyes, but could not shut out the vision of that dim sorrow which started up anew. Parting—tears—death; must they not come to all?
               "But let us have the trial, do." pleaded Isabel. "We ought, too, to be getting up some festivities at the Court."
               "I'll tell you what," exclaimed Guy. "Why not Beauty's trial be postponed, and then we can do the thing right. By George, couldn't we take the library for a court-room, and have judges in wigs, and witnesses, and, with the prisoner at the bar, we might go it hugely on the tableaux business! Belle, you are good at that."
               She clapped her hands in delight; and thereupon it was decided that the gentlemen should take prompt measures to further this action on Guy's part, and that a number of guests should be mustered for the occasion, and that we should all join in the dance afterwards.
               They were quite happy, discussing the project still, when the fire was lighted, and preparations for the tea-drinking commenced.
               I longed to be safe home; yet there the breeze fanned my temples, and quieted the poor, foolish flutterings of my heart. Leaving them all, I went and flung myself down amid the grass and rushes, and listened to the singing of the kettle and the hum of voices, and to the sound of the river as it went flowing on over rock and stone and bush.
               The red glory of day had faded when we drank our tea, and then made ready to return to the Court.
               I do not remember how it happened, but we were all changed about wonderfully for the drive homeward.
               I found myself in the front seat of the phaeton, with Mr. Brent beside me; within, were Maud, Isabel, and the latter young lady's mamma.
               Thus we sped away from the little green dell with its rose-bushes and wreaths of ivy. And while the others were talking in the strange, sweet depths of the gloaming, Mr. Brent said, in a low voice,—
               "Why do you shun me so persistently, Miss Vairin?"
               But, answering nothing, I shrank away from him, impelled by an impulse impossible to master.
               "If you are cruel, I am proud," he said, lower still. "Remember, you told me once we should be as strangers. I resented those words then, but I accept them from henceforth. I shall never beg your kindness again; you will find me a bitter, unforgiving foe, perhaps."
               Looking up, as the moon peered suddenly through an opening in the trees, I encountered great, angry eyes, and an expression of countenance it was difficult to fathom.
               "Why, cousin mine," exclaimed Maud, gazing out upon the road illuminated by that transient moon-burst, "why, I fear you have mistaken the route!"
               The other occupants of the carriage confirming her suspicions, the horses were guided into a road leading to the left, and at a touch of the whip went flying along with the rapidity of wind. The woodlands on either side were so dense with a growth of trees that the moonlight could throw not one ray upon the road as we sped along.
               The darkness was deep, intense, and seemed to have muffled us over in its desolation. Now and then a bird went whizzing along, or an owl would set up a hooting. I crouched low in my corner, endeavoring to forget the blackness of the lonely forest. There was something horrible in that march of trees, dimly defined against the night by their branches, and ever stretching ghostly arms towards us.
               And then once I held my breath, as we drove into what seemed a hollow, skirted on either side by an array of shrubbery. Overhead the trees must have twined branches together, shutting out every gleam of light, for the darkness there was that of a black, fearful Hades. Not one wakeful bird brooded in the tree-tops. It was far too gloomy, even, for an owl to make moan unto the night.
               I shuddered and gave a sort of gasp as the waves rolled over us, and in the horror of that lonely spot we seemed to be engulfed forever. But the horses were suddenly thrown back on their haunches, and the phaeton became motionless. Mr. Brent rose, and somehow in the darkness got out upon the ground. After a few moments he came to the side of the vehicle, saying, "You ladies will never forgive me for driving so carelessly. I am not in the road at all. It lies behind a trifle, and in this horrible gloom I have missed it."
               He sprang to his seat, seized the reins, and wheeled the horses around.
               The dark billows rolled over us anew, and, bowing my head, I felt we were sinking away down into the depths.
               Presently the sound of wheels was heard, and a voice called, "Halloo! is that you, Brent? We're come to look you up. Are you lost?"
               The voice was that of Ensign Willoughby. Mr. Brent hallooed in return, and my hopes commenced to beat high. I heard a man's foot crunching the leaves, and again the ensign called out, but rather in a sharp tone of alarm, "For God's sake, look out there,—look out!"
               There came a sudden jar.
               All I remember is having a dim consciousness of the phaeton falling, sinking on my side, and hearing startled shrieks from Isabel, and understanding that Mr. Brent had stood up and was grasping the reins with strong hands.
               You may fancy, journal, that I was very, very frightened; and though the approach of a bug or a mouse quite staggers me, and I am sure to scream like a true woman, yet, in the midst of peril, voice forsakes me, I am powerless to stir hand or foot.
               It all happened as in a flash.
               To my amazement, the vehicle, that had first been crashing and falling with rapidity, seemed afterwards sinking gently,—nearer, nearer the ground,—until it rested thereon, providentially let down, softly as a babe's cradle.
               "Is anybody hurt?" inquired the ensign, as we all scrambled out and Isabel left off screaming. "By Jove, that was a tumble down an embankment for you!"
               "But where's Mildmay?" he continued, peering around and leading us out of the hollow. We followed him a few paces, and then detected the light of a lantern.
               "As I live, if the man isn't perched up in the chaise smoking a cigar as if nothing were the matter! It's too bad, by the Lord Harry!"
               And sure enough, lolling in the pony-chase, the captain was puffing his clouds of smoke heavenward and following them with his gaze in a sort of hazy mood.
               "That was gallantly done, Willoughby, my man!" exclaimed Mr. Brent. He had released the horses, and came towards us leading them by the reins.
               "What, sir? what do you mean?"
               "Don't try to shirk a good deed, like an old-fashioned hero of romance. Of course I mean your breaking the fall of the phaeton as you did. I don't see how you managed to bear the weight. Are you injured at all?"
               "Oh!" exclaimed the young man, with an air of understanding thoroughly. "Injured! not at all."
               We all glanced sharply at the figure in the chaise that never once ceased smoking its interminable cigar, and Maud, clinching her hand over mine, whispered between her teeth,—
               "If ever was a man created without soul, there is one; how I despise him!"
               "Come, Mildmay, you lazy dog!" cried Mr. Ensign, strutting before him with a consequential air. "Come, get out, and let the ladies return in this. Of course you drive, Mrs. Hightower?"
               Yes, she drove; but neither Isabel, nor Maud, nor myself would bear her company.
               "It's not a mile to Buddington," said young Willoughby; "there's a short cut across the field behind this wood, and we can reach the Court as soon as the chaise, I'm sure."
               As he forthwith riveted himself to my side, assuring me, in a confiding tone, and with an air of having performed wonderful feats, of his desire to protect me from danger, and as Mr. Brent, too, avowed himself our champion, with the horses to still further back his liberal sentiments towards us, nothing remained but for Captain Mildmay to drive Mrs. Algernon homeward.
               He seized the reins with a grimace, and, calling out "Bon voyage," sped off at a canter.
               Then and there were exclamations from Isabel, decrying the captain's courtesy as a gentleman; and expressions of scorn from Maud, scouting his sensibility or sympathy of nature. Occasionally the ensign would give utterance to an opinion which, couched in terms meant to seem sarcastic, shot, oh! far from the mark. Mr. Brent alone attempted no comment on what had occurred.
               We came in view of the terrace just as Captain Mild-may was helping his companion alight, and all together ascended the steps. The others came forward jesting at our detention, and clamoring for a knowledge of the cause.
               Miss Willoughby seized upon the captain, and, to escape her eager inquiries, he retreated laughingly to the wall; striking it with vehemence, what was my surprise to see him start and wince with a motion as of one stricken with pain.
               "What's the matter?" queried she.
               But he only jested the more, and after much parleying upon the subject of the overthrown phaeton, we were called in to partake of an impromptu supper. There the party grew merry and riotous. But I, on the contrary, felt unusually ill at ease.
               Captain Mildmay drank innumerable cups of chocolate, and performed divers other wonderful exploits in the way of consuming provisions. My chagrin against him was bitter. Since our sojourn at Buddington (dating from noon yesterday) he appears to be doing his part manfully so that its inmates shall regard him with small favor.
               It being one of the Hon. Mrs. Algernon's strong points that her guests shall be over-punctual at meals, all of the party endeavored to comply with her wishes,—all, with the exception of the captain. He boldly disregards her authority, and, though there lurks an even chance that she may, at any moment, be liable to descend upon him, outpouring the vials of wrath, he yet has straggled in to dinner and breakfast when the others were being served, and met her cold, steel-like glance with the utmost nonchalance.
               And a fear seizes me that he will gain himself a reputation for proving the boldest and most indefatigable veteran at table; but such a reputation would be ill deserved, I know.
               Never did man consume a greater quantity of time in making preparation to eat than does Captain Mildmay. Each article is required to pass through a certain minute process of reasoning before any one portion of it ventures into his mouth; and each process is gotten through with deliberately and accurately, as if, having drawn up a code of rules, he must not deviate from their clauses by so much as a hair's-breadth. Indeed, he tries my patience sorely here. I wish, journal, he were back at Briarly; with all my heart I do.
               There was music in the drawing-room; having no sympathy with song just then, I sauntered out, and walked upon the terrace; but, in the midst of my cogitations there, a voice in the gravel-path below exclaimed,—
               "Confound the luck! How this infernal shoulder-bruise bears me witness that susceptibility to pain is not altogether deadened yet!"
               And on up to the steps marched the captain; evincing also a disposition to pace the terrace, he passed me by with lowered face. There was no levity upon it; rather the stamp of suffering,—a cause for which I readily surmised, and then it flashed upon me that he it was who had come to our aid in the hollow. This, then, was his indifference! We had so wronged him! What would they all say dared I tell!
               From my stand beside the fountain I darted forth, grasping his hand impulsively:
               "Captain Mildmay!"
               "Eh, well?" The old careless light shone anew on his features, and the old bantering tone glided into his voice.
               "Don't, don't do that!" I said, for he was tearing a flower to fragments and tossing the leaves upon the ground.
               "Who misses one little rose? Pshaw! 'tis only a poor thing born for an hour." And he went on rending its life, and dealing in small talk, until, by a gesture of impatience, I checked him.
               "Captain Mildmay, I have found you out, sir."
               "Oh, Lord, what have I done?" he groaned.
               "Made a martyr of yourself to no purpose, because I am going to prescribe you a cure; you need not think I am ignorant as the rest are in this matter. I know who held up that falling carriage, sir."
               "I don't understand riddles, Miss Vairin, if you please."
               
               "But why did you assume a rôle this evening which makes you out a man of heartless and blunt insensibility? And to think that that stupid Mr. Willoughby should be the hero of an exploit the pain and burden of which you alone bear upon this poor shoulder! How can you be so deceitful?"
               I shook my finger at him in great indignation. The first thing he did was draw himself up and make me a bow of serio-comic solemnity.
               "If mademoiselle will inform her humble slave the nature of the offense laid to his charge, he will most certainly disprove himself of all blame and make clear his innocence."
               "Then why, when you came tramping among those leaves in the hollow, and we thought it Mr. Willoughby, why did you not speak out to us? Why, when you saw the phaeton slipping over the embankment, and it was your hand and your shoulder that upheld it so manfully, why did you then fly the scene, and get up a character for stoicism, which you no more possess than do I? Why, I repeat, did you allow all this?"
               He raised both hands in feigned wonderment, and, laughing at my tone of gravity, said,—
               "Mademoiselle is too gracious, but she must not confer honor where honor is not due. I sat in my comfortable chaise, and smoked my comfortable cigar, and the madame and the demoiselles scrambled out without assistance from me. As for the shoulder" (touching it lightly), "it is in a sort of ill humor from the effect of an old wound, and I take it out in growling like a rough-tempered old bear. Is mademoiselle satisfied?"
               "No, she is not at all satisfied, sir. If you don't confess to me instantly, in a moment this great Court shall witness a lively scene:
               "Maid and man-servant shall be running hither and thither with bandages and liniments, doctors shall be noting your pulse, and swearing that you are internally injured; women, fainting outright; and you shall be put to bed, and dosed upon tea and toast and thin water-gruel for weeks to come, and shall have ample leisure to marvel in your inmost soul of the wonders that have come to pass. Now, will you confess?"
               "Heaven forbid that I should see Bedlam ere my time. Yes, I confess; but you will promise never to allude to the subject, my friend; you will promise?"
               "No, no, I give no such promises," I said, in triumph. But he seized my hands in an imploring attitude, and pleaded so wonderfully, that I was constrained to bind myself to secrecy.
               "But I am going to play doctor and prescribe for my patient, Captain Mildmay."
               He gazed at me in some alarm.
               "Yes, I am going to bring you a bottle of liniment with which to rub that shoulder; it must be a skin-bruise, and an application of arnica will relieve the pain immensely."
               "What!" he exclaimed, with a show of irony. "Do you treat me as my lady delicate, to be sniffing up a mixture of sal volatile, or applying an ointment when my finger bleeds?"
               But just there a sudden, sharp contortion crossed his features.
               "Aha!" said I, "I'm not a whit sorry for you; that is, I won't be, if you're going to continue so provoking and hateful as you have been all this time."
               Then I went on to the hall, where were promenading Mr. Brent and Isabel; they looked inquiringly at me, but, with not so much as a glance for them, I mounted the staircase.
               A happy thought presented itself,—Barbour. Poor, weeping, sad-eyed Barbour! a girl whose life is spent in weaving hair-crowns of beauty for a mistress no fairer than herself. I tapped at the door, and found her waiting up for Isabel, but asleep by the window, with a bright, young golden head flooded with dreams,—dreams never to be other than fancy, I ween.
               She found me some healing-salve, and before the lapse of many minutes it was in the possession of Captain Mildmay.
               Whether he will apply it, journal, is another question; he is an obstinate man, and a reckless one. But that there is a tide of sensibility beneath all this pretense of heartlessness I believe firmly and truly.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "And this it is to be exalted,—high,—
                           And wake in thoughtless breasts the envious sigh;
                           She is 'a thing enskied,' and it might seem,
                           Men view her as the phantom of a dream,
                           Or picture, such as her own pencil wrought
                           In other days. They gaze,—and gaze,—admiring
                           Her beauty,—even while her name hath caught
                           The ear of many, for a time inspiring
                           Astonishment,—that one so fair, so bright,
                           Should stand thus lonely in her spirit's might.
                           And—coldly then they've turned away, nor deemed
                           She was not all the statue that she seemed."
                        
                     
                     ANNA PEYRE DINNIES.
                  
               
               WE did not loiter on the terrace long, but soon entered the mansion together. My companion went on to the drawing-room. Isabel stood in the hall alone.
               "Well!" she exclaimed, coming forward with flashing eyes, and speaking in a tone that had lost much of its sweetness. "Well! I wonder you're not afraid to encounter my cousin Geoffrey after this moonlight promenade. You would be if you had seen him look after you with those angry eyes of his, and if you had heard him ask me, in that stern tone, how it was possible young ladies can manœuvre to keep so many lovers at once at their feet. I rather fancy he holds some authority over you, since your papa intrusted you to his care."
               This tirade fairly took away my breath; but, thank Fate! though in awe of the mother, I can face the daughter. And I did face her, with all the scorn and anger that her scathing tones aroused.
               Would I own obedience to such as he, indeed! O Hate, ye must grow and multiply tenfold before shall be meted out to him the full measure of my contempt!
               And he came out from the library in the midst of my indignation, standing, a spectator upon the scene; he smiled finally, and said,—
               "Miss Vairin, this must be a modern edition of Zenobia in Chains!"
               I flounced away from them then, and, rushing up the stairs, sank on the topmost step, buried my face in my hands, and wept with vexation.
               Miss Willoughby came running up from the drawing-room. Seeing me, she stopped; then exclaimed, suddenly, "Why, my dear, I am afraid you have been crying."
               Her voice had so much in it of real concern that the tears started afresh, and for some time I cried on in spite of her kind, "Oh, what is it? There, there, don't! oh, don't! You break my heart, poor little mouse!" and other tender phrases.
               The tears ceased falling after a time, because there were no more to be shed; and there I was, half laughing, half crying, at my companion's merry chatter, who, upon leaving me at the door of my room, whispered,—
               "I'm afraid you have neglected my warning; indeed, indeed, I'm afraid the cat has been worrying the poor little mouse."
               Once within my violet-tinted chamber, I thought myself safe for the night. But ambition's dream is no wilder fallacy than was that one of mine just one hour ago. (I must hurry now in the telling, journal friend, for I am growing most unromantically sleepy.)
               With scarcely a tap to give me warning of her presence, the Hon. Mrs. Algernon sailed majestically into my room. She is a lady rather given to the wearing of skirts that bear an immense amount of stiffness, so came towards me with much rustling. To my fancy, this seemed to lend an ominous sound to her footsteps.
               She settled herself in a moderately-capacious chair that was far too small to contain herself and those voluminous skirts.
               Neither spoke.
               I was pondering within myself whether it were expedient to demand, with 
                     a a
                     a
                   requisite amount of dignity, "Madam, to what am I indebted for the pleasure (?) of this visit?" But as I could not muster up one atom of dignity for the occasion, I concluded it not expedient, and so, with as much assiduity as Miss Dacre has been wont to manifest, searched about to obtain a refuge for my hands and feet.
               "Ah, Miss Vairin," she commenced, upon seeing them comfortably stowed away, "such a scene as I have just passed through with my poor Marion! She is so unyielding, and so unreasonable! The people I am forced to live with, though, have all such inflammable tempers. Indeed, I am continually called upon to guard my speech, so that I may not give offense."
               Catching an expression of wonderment in my face, she hastened to explain that it is all owing to her Christian fortitude that she manages to preserve so even a temperament as she is blessed with.
               "It was quite a by-word with Algernon, my deceased husband (if he had lived, Miss Vairin, he would have been elevated to the peerage!),—it was quite a by-word with him, this Christian fortitude of mine. Ah, a sorry day it was for his wife and child when death claimed him for the tomb!"
               And as she stared moodily at me with her stony eyes, I thought what a pity it was that death had claimed him; and, rather, what a sorry day it must have been for the Buddingtons of Buddington Court when he was so claimed.
               "But I bow to the will of Providence, and, in reading the Scriptures, learn to bear up under my trials. When I was a girl, religion was considered one of the fundamental principles of an education. Now,"—and she waved her hand solemnly in air, as if she were waving away the mists of latter-day ignorance,—"now, young ladies are simply fanciful and accomplished,—nothing more."
               With this, the bead-like eyes traveled their usual journey from my head to my feet; and then I felt more acutely than ever before that they were saying, "Aha! Have I discovered you at last? I am astonished, positively astonished, at the revelation."
               So you may imagine, journal dear, when she exclaimed, triumphantly, "Miss Vairin, your collar is quite awry,"—you may imagine, my old precious, that I started as if an electric battery had turned its shock full upon me.
               I replied, "Yes, ma'am," and looked meek as a lamb.
               Then she went on to say there was an important matter about which she had come to consult me, that she believed me capable of affording her all necessary information, and that if I would be kind enough to do so, she—the Hon. Mrs. Hightower—would feel herself under a debt of obligation for ever and ever.
               And she further went on to say that the welfare of her daughter—Miss Isabel Hightower—lay nearest and dearest her maternal heart.
               (A fact which seems unnecessary to state, as I have not shown the slightest inclination to doubt it; knowing, too, that there is no other offspring with whom to divide the maternal heart's maternal affections.)
               At this point of her confidence the lady slightly coughed, and instituted a somewhat vigorous search for her pocket-handkerchief. Finding it, she again took up the thread of discourse.
               "I have lately discovered, Miss Vairin——"
               Here I grew uneasy, wondering if these late discoveries were of very frightful nature.
               "I have lately discovered that my daughter—my young, confiding daughter—has transferred her virgin affections to the keeping of Mr. Geoffrey Brent. And as I have every reason to believe—do not start so! I am not going to say he does not return her love; oh, by no means.
               "But as I have every reason to believe that he will make a formal proposal to her mother for the daughter's hand ere many days, I merely wish to gain some trifling information about that old affair of his with Lady Ada Littlejohn."
               I did not once raise my eyes. I was busy, indeed, exceedingly busy, tying knots in my handkerchief; but for all that I could feel her keen gaze essaying to scrutinize my heart's very depths.
               "Do you think, Miss Vairin,—now I appeal to your sympathy with a mother's interest in her only child,—do you think Mr. Brent at all liable to succumb to the fascination exercised by his former love?"
               Somehow I felt that she was endeavoring to make me look directly at her; and though there was a heavy-lidded weight on my eyes, that pressed hot and scalding far beneath their lashes, still, I was compelled into obedience, and so, raised my head.
               Of course it was cowardice to yield; but show me the woman (with the exception of my queen) who may vanquish the Hon. Mrs. Algernon.
               So calmly that I quite surprised myself did I inform her Mr. Brent was not a man to be led away by an impulse of the moment; that he was one who never attempted anything without having fully counted its cost; that if he had avowed his love for Miss Hightower, then did he love Miss Hightower, and none other; and that of his old affection for the Lady Ada, it was my belief that not a vestige remained. I wound up by expressing my hope that Miss Isabel's happiness through life would be ever unmarred.
               The honorable lady, at that, made considerable rustling with her skirts, and, with another feeble attack of coughing, smiled grimly at me, saying, in her least pleasant style, and with energy,—
               "I am rejoiced to hear you speak so, Miss Vairin; it relieves me from a painful doubt. Do you know I have fancied—once, or twice perhaps—that you were experiencing the unspeakable misfortune of having given your heart to a man totally indifferent to it? But your words assure me otherwise."
               Ay, that was a stab in the dark!
               I sprang to my feet, and, with all my cowardice subdued, astonished her, no doubt, by the severity of my speech. The blood that had a few moments before moved sluggishly in my veins, now surged in guilty tides along cheek, brow, and throat.
               I informed her that Mr. Brent had never been, nor could ever be, regarded as even my friend; that there was an injury he had done to one whom I loved,—an injury of such type as precluded any thought of friendship between us; furthermore, I informed her that never has mortal been hated as I hate him, regarding myself his bitter enemy, and vice versa. I knew at the time she would tell him of my speech, word for word. I am glad of it, dear journal; yes, very, very glad.
               Having accomplished her mission, Mrs. Algernon swept from the apartment.
               Dear, oh, dear, what an absurd figure I must cut when in one of my passions!
               But then, you know, all my life I have been a trial to everybody, and have never had my mother's kindly love to blossom in, as have others who are but gentle flowerets. When the storm beats down, there is no parent stalk to shelter under. I lie in the roadside, and with equal force comes the glare of noon or the pouring of the winter rain; if I rise from the ordeal swayed by no gentle emotion, who shall wonder and disdain?
               With the exit of Mrs. Algernon, I believed myself destined to solitude; sat me down beside the window, and looked out upon the park. I do not think, though, I noted its moonlit avenues, or its stretches of turf-billow and lawn. Thought brooded dimly in my mind as a bird over a pillaged nest. How quiet was the night! I leaned my head upon the window-bar to cool its throbbing, and clinched my hands together in desperation. The silence around irritated me. Not a whisper of wind stirred the tree-tops; not a ripple flecked the river. And the white moon shone on, bringing her placid lady-face closer, closer to mine, till in a frenzy I could have struck the fair patrician who was gliding westward with her jeweled train upheld by twinkling star-vassals.
               I was thus tossing in a storm when again my door swung open, and Maud crossed over to me where I crouched beside the casement. Her face was in a blaze, and a baleful gleam sparkled from her eyes. "What has Aunt Emily been saying to you?" she demanded.
               I only shook my head; and though she insisted upon an explanation of that strange interview, would divulge nothing.
               "What a pity for you, little one," she continued, in voice of scorn, "that when there is so much of honey in the cells, a crowd of wasps must swarm around; their sting is fierce and biting. But I am talking nonsense; you are a mere child, and I'll warrant have never yet been pierced by one poison-arrow."
               "Ah, Maud, Maud," I cried out, "it is not so! Indeed, indeed, I have drunk deeply of sorrow's cup; and I wish my portion was half as innocent of bitterness as is yours."
               
               "What!" she exclaimed, facing me with sarcastic lip. "You think me one to be envied, do you? I am beautiful, am I? Yes,—the men praise my beauty! And I possess riches! And no lack of suitors! And youth, health, and a thousand other blessings in the category of life! Yet" (she raised her arm menacingly to the sky), "God up there knows there is no more miserable worm crawling the earth than this same Miss Buddington. If He is God, why does He not hearken to the cries of his people?
               "I have prayed to Him, Hope, but my prayers were of no avail. I have prayed to be guarded from an unholy step in life, but He did not answer me; and now I am rushing headlong into the abyss, and He whom they say is God sits upon his throne,—all unheeding the peril of a soul. Ask me if I pray to Him now; why, even the devils would laugh me to scorn! No, my lips have learned other language than an echo of the preacher's pious cant."
               "Oh, Maud! Maud!" came shudderingly from me. She laughed; then threw herself upon the floor, and drew my hands about her neck:
               "Come, no more sermons from anybody. I want only to be petted now and made much of. Talk to me, Hope."
               I could not frame a syllable into voice, though. The park was growing more and more into shadow; the candles in the silver candelabra flared up, then died suddenly away, and the room would have been in darkness but for the light of stars and moon.
               "Will you not talk?" she said. "Well, if you are listening, I want to tell you something about my life."
               Her voice was strangely unfamiliar.
               "Years ago, when a child, I knew my first bitter woe. It was the day when Aunt Emily stood upon the threshold of my life saying, with voice that spoke only to my soul, 'How I hate you!'
               "She had better have used those words to announce to me the fact, than the string of pious exhortations with which she told me that my mother was dying. I was a happy child at my play, when she roused me from it by telling me that.
               "Was it not cruel?—because I worship mamma! She did not die, but has ever been the wreck you see her now; and from that hour all the energies of my being seem to have been concentrated in the faculty of hating her who has always played tyrant, keeper, or what you will, over poor mamma.
               "Then followed the years at school; fortunately for me, my aunt and cousin were wont to pass their summers in a visit to a brother of Mr. Hightower. So during vacation I had mamma all to myself. It was when but seventeen, Hope, that a change, a terrible change, came over my life. You may guess my meaning; I bowed before an idol. Well, a year or two passed in the nursing of this dream, and then I woke to find he had never loved me; woke to find him false and heartless, and in my soul I learned to heap maledictions upon his head."
               My hand crept soothingly through her long, fair fleece of hair.
               "No, do hot pity me,—not yet," she cried, pushing it away. "Reserve your pity for the sadder portion of my narrative. From the moment I looked upon the traitor with new eyes, every trace of my love for him was scattered to the winds.
               "It was my pride, Hope, my accursed pride, that was bowed to the earth and dragged through the filth of a man's lost favor. I, who had carried my head as a princess royal, felt lowered, humbled, by the touch of hand such as his. But wait till you hear me out before you grant me pity; waste it not on pride, that offspring of demons.
               "I had exacted a promise from my parents never to disclose the history of those two years to mortal; in this discreet way have escaped the taunting shafts of Isabel and her mother. You will understand that these people possess the power of stirring me into frenzy; and when I am boiling over with wrath, Aunt Emily will only stare at me with her rigid eyes, and let fall sneering allusions to 'thorns in the flesh,' and phrases of the like nature.
               "This has been my home-happiness! But I took comfort, vast comfort, in society. And I have wielded a royal sway over the poor fools silly enough to flutter in my path. Did I care if they were trodden or bruised in my triumphal march? No; not a thought has been wasted upon the swarm of moths.
               "It is a glorious thing to hurt a man's vanity! Never call it his love, I pray you; it is man's vanity that you wound. How I gloat over each fool as he is tossed from his height! For I've had my play with them; have bound them in my toils, smiled on them, flattered them, but coolly rejected their pretense of love. Revenge is very sweet, sweet indeed.
               "But here listen well, Hope. This play of fast and loose with destiny cannot continue forever. In a few years I shall have lost my power, and rather than sink into an inferior position as maiden lady of the family I should don the veil and beads.
               "And thus it is I have vowed myself to one for whom I have no love.
               "Oh, Hope! Hope! now give me your pity, your great, sad pity; for this, that I am fettered by a sacred promise to a man who deserves a far better fate than the wild folly of that which causes him to wed with Maud Buddington."
               She shuddered as if with cold, and drew my hands tighter about her neck.
               "Is it Lord Chester, dear Maud, to whom you have betrothed yourself?" I asked.
               She nodded in assent.
               "Does he know that you do not reciprocate his affection?"
               Another nod.
               "Tell me," I whispered, pleadingly, "are you not afraid you still love that other? If it should be so, do not risk your life, happiness, for a girl's silly pride! Tell me the truth, dear."
               She started up then in a sitting posture, looking, with her hair all loose and her eyes hard and glittering, like some vengeful Pythoness.
               "I tell you, "she exclaimed, fiercely, "there is only bitter, bitter hate in my bosom for that other; rather than marry him now, I would spill out every drop of my heart's blood! You do not know me, Hope Vairin. If I wept my salt tears once, it was a demon pride that forced them from me. If I tossed on a bed of thorns, or walked a plowed ground with feet bared, if I cried out against the fairness ness of earth when life was black in my soul, or revolted against the judgment of Him to whom they pray 'Our Father,' it was the same demon pride tearing at my heartstrings."
               She bowed her head upon the casement.
               "How lovely the park in this dim silence, Hope! I wonder if rest may come after the burning noon? Would that I might believe it! But it would be horrible to live forever in such a solitude; the traitor thoughts bred in its midst would kill me. And it is this knowledge which warns me back from that precipice whose brink I am nearing.
               "I cannot, oh, God! I cannot glide on day by day a placid lady-wife,—supposed to meet my husband with love for love, smile for smile; never missing a duty, never making a wrong step, always stifling a word or cry of warning that may tell him, 'of all women, your wife is most traitorous; her smiles, her words, her laughter, all are foul insurgents. She is false, a very Delilah in your bosom, a serpent whose presence there should be your sting of venom.'"
               "Do not speak of yourself thus, Maud, darling one." I smoothed with tenderness her hand that lay on my lap. "It is not true, dear, and if you be only faithful to your better nature, it may never be true. How much nobler to be an unmated woman than a disloyal wife! how much nobler to look upon the world from pure, womanly eyes than to shrink from its gaze with such memories to rankle in your heart! Be your own true self. And, oh, Maud, go with a firm faith in his goodness to your betrothed; tell him you should come to him empty-hearted, as no woman should walk forth on her bridal night to meet her bridegroom.
               "You say he is a man among men; then will he reverence you as a woman among women! He will bless you, dear, for your candor. In after-years, think that this very love of Lord Chester may be hurled upon you as a bitter load. Oh, Maud, my friend, pause before it is too late!"
               And I pressed her hand to my cheek, and held it there, while pleading with her to prove herself a true monitor to her own soul.
               
               For a time my only answer was a half-suppressed groan; but presently she said,—
               "It is too late, Hope. All women are fettered. I, too, must wear my chains. It is because he is so good and noble that I shrink from this cruelty. Lord Chester deserves happiness, he merits all of life's blessings; yet I—knowing this—shall be the instrument to rouse him from his dream of bliss. He has had his warning, though; for two years I have evaded him, because I would never hunt to the death game so noble as he.
               "It is the sly fox or timid hare that I may toss and worry to the depths of torture. But the proud stag,—let him roam at will through his forest home!
               "It may not be, Hope. It is my fate to marry him. He knows me as I am, and will have me and none other. It is my fate, so do not gainsay me."
               Surely, it was not Maud, my queen, who sat then at my feet; not the proud, imperious Miss Buddington playing at her game of cruelty with hearts of men for toys!
               It was the desolate woman stripped of her robe of state; bare of her shining crown; her sceptre stricken from her; her figure bowed to the ground; crouching to the dust, with hair dragging its radiance upon the floor.
               It is passed now, my journal; but I am still up, writing you the occurrences of to-day.
               Poor, proud Maud! Poor, proud queen!
               The moon has gained her westward home. I give a glance out upon the park and up into the sky. Dawn is breaking, the early summer dawn; her figure steals over the mountain-tops; she is smiling, sadly, too.
               But I think everything in the world is sad.
               When will the new day break which shall bear with it no sadness, no parting, no deathly sorrow? when will it break for me?—I who am so unhappy!
               Journal, I must watch for it with eyes less of worldliness, for it shall dawn never, never here below; but in the New Jerusalem, whose streets are of jasper and gold; whose Lord is God, "Our Father, who art in heaven."
               There it shall dawn in splendor.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "We live in deeds, not years,—in thoughts, not breaths,—
                           In feelings, not in figures on a dial;—
                           We should count time by heart-throbs. He most lives
                           Who thinks most,—feels the noblest,—acts the best."
                        
                     
                     Festus.
                  
               
               A ROYAL moonlight.
               The stars are one broad crown, regal in flash and setting. The flower-scent is borne with a rush past the windows. But the air seems slumbering upon the wings of an Ariel; the very ripples are dead upon the river's bosom.
               I have just come up from the drawing-room; they are still dancing there. Growing tired of them, however, I have slipped away to you, journal dear, and shall not go down any more.
               The Court is filled with guests, and as it is only eleven o'clock, I dare say these viols and horns will be squeaking for some hours yet.
               Two days have passed since our picnic. Let me see; sure enough, this is Friday, and my week will be up on next Tuesday. It could be very pleasant here if—but no matter.
               This morning Maud acted quite strangely.
               Placing her hands on my shoulders, she scanned me for a half-moment before speaking.
               Then, at last:
               "Is anything wrong with me, Hope? If not, why do you hunt me with those great eyes of yours? Is it because you throw me some scant crumb of pity for the absurd tale I told you the other night? If so, do it no more, child. I must have been mad then to have invented such a story to frighten you, as grim nurses cry 'bugaboo' to frighten their little charges.
               
               "There is no bugaboo, little one. See, am not I radiantly happy?"
               Laughing, and clasping my hands, she beat them together softly, palm to palm.
               "Oh, Maud darling," I could not help saying, "you will break your heart! You're not happy; can I not see it! Don't you suppose that others see it, too?"
               "Break my heart!" echoed she, while no rose in its crimson calyx could have blushed deeper. "Break my heart! For what? For whom? Poor, innocent girl! Have you forgotten this is the nineteenth century, when hearts neither break nor so much as snap?—the cool, calculating nineteenth century, which pooh-poohs your loves, your would-be heroes, or your dreams,—when the great golden calf is the idol to which we alone bend the knee; why, its shining lustre has far outstripped the radiance of that monument on high Olympus. Child, where is your doll?"
               For answer, I could only droop my head and sigh.
               "Listen, Hope. I am quite happy now. I—I am beginning to think I wasn't exactly fond of that other; and I shall be very fond of Lord Chester. When he comes to the Court, and if that other could, by any chance, look in upon us, he would say we were very much in love with each other; he wouldn't think I could ever have been grieving for him. I—I" (with an uncertain laugh), "I am quite a model fiancée, am not I? Why don't you answer?" she cried, sharply, as, framing my face in her hands, she looked searchingly into it for a confirmation of her words.
               But what could I say? Lord Chester is cognizant of that leaf in her past. He is proud of her; he loves her; and he will take her, to have and to hold, at any cost.
               "Go," exclaimed Maud, "if you'll not answer me. Go, but at least have the grace to think me no romantic fool." And, walking away, she left me to enter the music-room alone, where the ladies, young and old, were assembled.
               Nell was seated at the piano, repeating in execrable rhyme (while her fingers played a tum-te-tumty accompaniment) some time-worn sentiments, such as—
                     
                        "It is love makes the world go round, round, round,
                        Round, round, round,"
                     
                   while Guy stood beside her, turning the leaves, and gazing in admiration at the pert little nose, and the mouth which, to him, no doubt, seemed giving utterance to melody of Malibran celebrity.
               This young man has a supreme distaste for music. I know it quite as well as if, instead of submitting to Nell's barbarisms upon the operas, he were to stop up his ears with his fingers, exclaiming against her outrages upon those master-minds. Isabel performs with brilliancy; so does Maud; so does Miss Willoughby.
               Yet if either of them touch a finger to the piano, instantaneously Guy flies the scene; but minute after minute he will let slip by and stir not from his post when Nell martyrs the instrument; through pages of most detestable thrumming he looks well pleased, and no doubt experiences a twinge of regret when, the finis being announced, she vacates her post.
               Tum-te-tum-tumty-tumty! 
                     
                        "It is love makes the world go round, round, round,
                        Round, round, round,"
                     
                  
               
               Isabel sat at a window; a frame with a canvas netting spread over it being placed beside her, while her work-basket held a lot of Berlin wool.
               Heavens! The design was a group of twelve men standing up in a row; rather too close together for comfort were they, thought I, but doubtless the width of canvas required them to be so depicted. Upon closer inspection, I concluded that they represented the Twelve Apostles.
               Yes, for there was St. Peter—I would know him anywhere—with the tip of his nose not quite worked in, and a key or two missing. And there was St. John with two staring beads for eyes, and Simon with a ferocious beard in brown worsted. Half a dozen of them were still wanting—one, a leg, another, an arm, and yet another, a head. But in the course of the next two or three years, I dare say these necessary members will also display themselves.
               Captain Mildmay was ensconced in an easy-chair, winding ing and unwinding skeins of purple and yellow floss, with which and a swift needle Miss Dacre was endeavoring to blow pansies upon a ground of velvet.
               Mrs. Algernon sat near in state, her fingers busy over some tapestry-work.
               I soon detected Miss Willoughby lounging upon a divan, hands and thought innocent of employment.
               "At any rate, I am not the only one idle," I thought; so amused myself watching St. Peter's nose shaping into form. In a short while the conversation became general, and drifted down stream, until by a turn of tide it floated into a literary channel.
               "I never read learned books," Isabel exclaimed, shyly glancing up at Mr. Brent, who was then entering. "For I don't think ladies ought to know as much as gentlemen. They couldn't if they were to try, but you know some do set themselves up as being superior in intellect. I don't, for one; I am glad to say I'm not one of your smart, strong-minded sort."
               "Nobody ever accused you of being such, Miss Hightower, I believe?" queried the captain, evidently most anxious to ascertain.
               "Oh, dear, no," she said, regarding us all with a smile of complacency. "Oh, dear, no; I'm too clinging, too confiding in my disposition, to ever dream of being a person of that sort."
               "Ah, I see," he returned. "True, I might have known it without asking."
               Then there was an outcry from some of us in vehement disclaim of the assertion that woman may never be stronger in intellect than man.
               Miss Willoughby mounted the rostrum, figuratively speaking. She pelted her opposers with the arguments of ordinary feminine usage, and hurled upon them words of such wroth texture, that all, save Mrs. Hightower, gave in directly.
               I rather fancy the young lady rides a hobby; and that it partakes of a nature appertaining to the much-abused woman question.
               She informed us that the time is over and gone when woman's weakness is considered woman's strength; the time over and gone when, with fine and plausible sentiment, the world may preach down her intellect. Men have blinded her eyes too long, by coiling their insinuous love-poison in her heart; heretofore they have drugged her with soft words and softer looks; but now she is unclosing her eyes from that dangerous slumber; she is willing to serve as bondswoman no longer; she will not be slave where she may be mistress.
               From the time the first Eve sinned in Eden, woman's bane has consisted in flaunting her dependence, her delicate graces, her false timidity, in the faces of mankind; till they, catching the bait, have chained her down so securely, with her own silken rope, it will be a miracle indeed if she ever succeed in rising from her fetters.
               It is the ignorant man alone, she went on to assert, who resists the enlargement of her sphere. The ignorant man who, dealing with the poor of God's people, may give for woman's work but the smallest fraction of pay. Is it not, therefore, to his interest to oppose equality of sex? Does he not wring from the work-girl her very life-blood, receiving the task more thoroughly accomplished than if undertaken by a man, yet bestowing remuneration far too scant to supply her with the necessaries of food?
               It is not just! It is a crime!
               Another false practice Miss Willoughby declaimed against was, that from the theory of woman's native delicacy arises the customary crying-down of her labor as unfeminine and degrading. She said it is no more disgrace for a woman to keep shop, pore over ledgers and daily accounts, teach school, edit journal or magazine, than it is for man to undertake the same. That a woman may move with as unsullied purity through the noisy traffic of earth's workshop as she can do in a duchess's drawing-room. For her, there are other things in life besides giving in marriage.
               If the world would only recognize its arena of action as open alike to man and woman, if it would recognize work as honorable in the hands of all, think you there would be so many fair daughters sacrificed on the altars of Mammon? If a girl might say, "I care not to marry, yet I may not be a burden on my father; why do I not work for my bread as do my brothers? I am simply idle, waiting to be somebody's wife,—a drone in the hive where others toil unceasingly!"
               But society, with lustrous robe of virtue, would be scandalized; it frowns her down. She must marry a mansion in Belgravia, and servants in livery, and a brougham with its attendant bays, and a villa at Southampton.
               Miss Willoughby agreed that if a woman met her chosen one, and could honestly walk beside him throughout life, giving him love for love, and training up her children to a future of glory, there could be for her no brighter lot in the category of destiny.
               But, on the other hand, think of the many who, either from choice or circumstances, may never marry.
               Let them, then, battle with the workers in their own way. Labor does not unsex the gentlest of her kind; she need come to the contest with no masculinity of speech, garment, or countenance; she may be the smallest, most fragile of girls, but her spirit must needs be Amazonian in strength and purity.
               Grant it that she marries; her lord is as a column towering beside her. But does the column never totter? Do storms never circle around its majestic form? Then if the wife is but a clinging vine, with no healthy vein to rouse her into action,—if she is but a poor, hysterical creature, who faints at sight of an insect,—ah, God help the proud column then!
               Miss Willoughby looked forward to no millennium, when wild women should be shrieking around the ballot-box or sitting in state in parliament; and declaimed with vehemence against all such procedure. Concluded her tirade by saying, in triumphant tone,—
               "It is because you lordly creatures are trembling for fear we shall yet outstrip you that you oppose us so tyrannically. Never mind! The day will come when the order of things shall be reversed. I hope so, if only for—— What is that you are saying, Miss Isabel?"
               "Oh, nothing, nothing much," blushing deeply, as if she were afraid Miss Willoughby would turn the tide of argument against her, and not feeling herself capable of resisting its force.
               She had remarked, sotto voce, to Mr. Brent,—
               "I'm glad I am not one of these silly creatures with a mission; they're so ranting, aren't they?"
               "If you do not read learned books, Miss Isabel, what sort do you read?" asked Harry Mildmay. "Of course you like Dickens?"
               "No, indeed!" she returned, with a little exclamation of disdain. "He is so low."
               Good Heavens! Miss Willoughby almost sprang from her chair. "Low!" was all she found breath to repeat.
               "Yes," said the Hon. Mrs. Algernon. And straightway proceeded to prepare herself for a struggle by drawing her figure to its full height.
               "Yes, too low, Miss Willoughby. Has he ever given us a perfect lady or gentleman? Does he not drain the filth of England to fish up material for character-delineating? He makes a burlesque of life; mere caricatures of men and women. Why, does he not ridicule the very weaknesses of old age? I assert that no child ever grows up with a profound respect for its parents who is permitted to read 'Great Expectations.' Who cares to hear of life in the depths of poverty? In truth, I am astonished that a young woman of your literary proclivities should display a taste anywise inclined towards vulgarity. I had thought the Scotch well-educated people."
               (Miss Willoughby has been reared in Scotland; hence this Parthian shaft.)
               "You are correct," she returned. "They are extremely well educated. But to call Charles Dickens—the very king of fiction—to call him vulgar! The world at large would scorn such an asseveration. No, no, Mrs. Hightower, he wields a pen whose lightest stroke is power, grand, exalted power."
               Much was maintained on either side; much that was all wisdom and eloquence on the part of the younger antagonist, more that was pomposity and narrow-minded rodomontade on the part of the older.
               The former almost started the tears in my eyes as she spoke of the great novelist whom I, too, love and reverence as a dear, known friend. She explained how beautiful it was for that mind to set itself the task of bringing cheer and relief to the many miserable poor dragging out an existence in the heart of London.
               She told how he spoke to the better nature of the rich man in behalf of the starved wretch at his gate. How the sufferers in prisons and in work-houses; the children in cities learning to lie, to plunder, and to murder; the hungry, beaten boys like those in Squeers's school,—she told how all these were made to feel the daylight, because of a kindly, large-souled man who was pleading for them with the world. His voice was heard in palace-hall as in cottage throughout the land; and it stirred a new-born compassion in the hearts of the rich for the sorrows upborne by feeble child-shoulders, or the burdens clogging the lives of the aged.
               And does he not convince us there may be many a pearl of kindliness, of fortitude, and of charity hidden beneath the hodden-gray of those threadbare garments worn by the poor? Charles Dickens, she said, has achieved a noble work. Let no man carp at him for seeking his jewels amid the roughnesses of humble life.
               He labored in a cause of holiness; and that he has gained a reward let the smiles, the tears, the laughter, and the blessings that rise from millions of human beings,—let all these have voice to proclaim his glory.
               The shout would reverberate from pole to pole; the earth would be alive with joy.
               Then let no cry shame itself by lifting a discordant tone in the melody that awakes when we speak softly, kindly, of him who was all tenderness, kindness,—the author of Little Dorrit, Bleak House, and David Copper-field.
               Journal dear, you may fancy how I longed to jump up and thank Miss Willoughby for her gallant defense.
               But the Hon. Mrs. Algernon's eyes were flaming, as she brought argument after argument to support her side of the question. I put my fingers to my ears, though, and would not listen to one word. When at last curiosity got the better of me, and I was fain to take them out, Miss Willoughby was exclaiming,—
               "The conception of that character of Sydney Carton will alone proclaim the author of grand intellect!"
               "Pah!" sneered the captain, "do you credit any such stuff as that? I am a great admirer of Dickens; but Carton is no friend of mine. I condemn him for sacrificing his life. Does any sensible fellow ever do it? I wouldn't, certain; don't fancy heroics."
               Taking up another skein of floss, he proceeded to unwind it vigorously.
               "There's no greater humbug in the world," he continued, presently, "than this hero-worship; for you will find your heroes to prove mere braggarts and swaggerers. Why, all that we ever learned at school about them we're fast unlearning now, and fast proving our once-cherished ideas to be but images. Modern research is well acting the part of iconoclast,—pulling down our idols, and flattening their noses without distinction.
               "Once I was verily fool enough to believe the Roman twins were nurtured by a kindly wolf; whereas the animal turns out to be a mere shepherd's wife. Homer, they tell us, was not blind; it seems natural, too, that he shouldn't be, since wherefore his skill in picturing the beauties of nature?
               "And do not we find that Joan of Arc lived to marry, and raise a large family, and then die sensibly in her bed, instead of letting herself be burned at the stake?
               "Mary Stuart, too! They have destroyed my faith in her; she is a woman, though, and I might have expected that. But, as I say, there are your heroes and heroines.
               "Now the painter Raphael, whose face was gloriously beautiful, and whom we believed to have died in his youth, turns out to have lived to old age, and to have plunged into the grossest debauchery.
               "Upon my soul, I doubt my own self nowadays; somebody will want to be proving shortly that our existence is imaginary, and then where will I turn for comfort? They won't even let me have a William Tell nor a Whittington; and they say Guy Fawkes and his gunpowder plot are mere shams of the age.
               "What is a reading man to do? Everybody has taken to writing books, and to rummaging in those wonders of the past, and to exposing fables and lies by the score.
               "They want to prove now that at Waterloo Wellington never cried, 'Up, guards, and at them!' He was half a mile off at the time, they have it, and so couldn't by any means within human limit have made them hear.
               "Now, I regret that. When a boy, I used to ponder over the great Duke's career; even occasionally surprised myself waking in the night and hallooing, 'Up, guards, and at them!' This is the straw that breaks the camel's back. I give up now, since I may cry that no more!
               "Gad, what's a hero but an idle puff of wind?
               "It's rather hard, though, by George, to yield up those pretty little notions of the ancients, and to find them after all but mild-mannered, affable old parties."
               After expressing himself at such length, Captain Mild-may fairly panted for breath. Indeed, we all gazed at him in wonderment; for I doubt that any of the assemblage has ever heard him combine so many sentences together before.
               But the Hon. Mrs. Algernon, deeming it incumbent upon herself to maintain the Hightower dignity, said something to the effect that the real heroes around us are those who display the least of their perfections, and who hide themselves in obscurity from the world. She further informed us (with a slight h-m!) that people had come under her observation, at various times, who for years were mere household packs; yet who (with another h-m) bore their burdens meekly, and without murmur, as it was the will of the Lord.
               I knew she was pointing a finger of triumph at her own many years of self-sacrifice spent in obscurity (?) with the Buddington family.
               Nobody ventured a reply. And then having unexpectedly touched upon one of her favorite themes, viz., the will of the Lord, the temptation was too great to desist.
               She proceeded to expatiate upon the sweets to be garnered in from a perfect and uniform conformity with the Divine commands, etc. It was her solace in all sorrow; in fact, to one who had come to experience this dear reliance upon God, even the thought of death was rendered beautiful. At the Father's call one could gladly walk forth into the valley of shadows.
               "Oh, no, indeed," I was reckless enough to interpose. "Dying has always terror in its wake; it makes me shudder, for one, to think about it."
               "Why, Miss Vairin, I am surprised to hear you affirm such a thing. Is it possible? A girl of your understanding, too! It is opposed to the first principles of Christianity to think in your way. If you read your Bible attentively you will find fears such as these vanishing like smoke. What is it St. Paul says to the Corinthians?—'For we which live are always delivered unto death,'" etc.
               Having thus brought a storm on my head, I must needs bear it patiently. She talked me down about the saints, and the wickedness of not wanting to die, until I had no voice left; and finally, at the last moment, argued me back to the deluge. There, I discovered myself so far away from any loophole of escape, that I attempted no further effort to become disentangled; but calmly and quietly let myself be harangued at through the various stages of the world's recuperation after the flood. I knew she would not let me off under anything less than the reigns of the four Georges. Alas! my very blood ran chill at the prospect.
               Fortunately, her attention was once called off by the captain requesting Isabel to play the "Fairy Polka." Again the honorable lady drew herself up. "My daughter plays nothing so frivolous, captain," she remarked. "I have never allowed her to cultivate light music."
               Whilst employed in smoothing out her ruffled plumage disarranged by this onset, I took occasion to slip over to Miss Lucy, then retreated quietly and in haste from the room; going up into the hall, stood at the flaming oriel window, and looked upon the wealth of shrubbery beneath.
               "What has driven you up here?" exclaimed a voice. It was Maud. She came out from her room with a copy of the Times in her hand.
               "Oh," I said, "all the saints in the calendar. They were too many for me."
               "Just like you, Hope. I was passing awhile back, looked in for you, but heard Aunt Emily mention St. Luke, and knowing what would come, I made my escape in time. Now I have you all to myself, and want you to listen to some verses I find here; they've fascinated me." She took up the paper and read: 
                     
                        "'After singing, silence; after roses, thorns:
                        All the blackest midnights built o'er golden morns.
                        After flowering, fading; bitter after sweet;
                        Yellow, withered stubble after waving wheat.
                     
                     
                        "'After green, the dropping of the shriveled leaf,
                        Like the sudden lopping of some dear belief;
                        After gurgling waters, dry, unsightly beds;
                        After exultation, lowly-hanging heads.'
                     
                  
               
               "Is not that pretty? But what a sensible woman is the writer! She understands man thoroughly, for she says to her lover,— 
                     
                        "'So I shrink and shiver at your proffered kiss,
                        Knowing pain must follow on the heel of bliss;
                        Knowing loss must find me sleeping on your breast;
                        Leave me while you love me,—this is surely best.
                     
                     
                        "'Like a blushless flower left upon its stem,
                        Sweetening the thickness of the forest's hem;
                        Like a hidden fountain never touched by lips;
                        Like an unknown ocean never sailed by ships,—
                     
                     
                        "'Thus I shall be fairer to your untried thought
                        Than if all my living into yours were wrought.
                        Hearts' dreams are the sweetest in the lonely nest;
                        Leave me while you love me,—this is surely best!'
                     
                  
               
               "There, Hope, this is what you shall say to your lover when he comes! But perhaps he has,—is it not so? Tell me, is—is it not Captain Mildmay?"
               I declaimed against her assertion. "There is no love and no lover for me, Maud! Besides, were he ever to appear, I should not repeat to him your verses; I would cling to him, and hold fast unless he himself would bid me go."
               "He will never do that, little one; you shall be to him as beautiful and loving as you are to me. Ah! he will never let you go, my bright little pet."
               We locked arms, and strode up and down, talking the while. Presently a fluttering of skirts became audible, and the gay flock of people rustled from the music-room.
               "Oh, Maud! Cousin Maud!" called Nell, "they're fixing things for to-night. They're to have a real judge's bench, and attendants, and a jury, and ever so many judges with long, white wigs, you know."
               "For what, pray? What is all this about?"
               "Oh, you've not forgotten the trial of Queen Beauty that is to take place to night?"
               Maud smiled: "Am I not to be the queen? And are not our neighbors to arrive as an audience, and is there not to be a dance afterwards? Why, I remember now, though at first I scarcely understood."
               Then pressing her hand to her head, she said, sadly,—
               "Of late I am forgetting so many things."
               Nell's enumeration of the appendances undergoing construction for the approaching night's festivity was correct. Of course, it was but an impromptu atmosphere pervading these appliances of the court to be held in the music-room. With the glamour of night overspreading all, however, it was expected that our trial would bear somewhat the semblance of reality. The gentlemen had thrown heart and soul into the project, being evidently as much concerned in the issue of the forthcoming event as if it were of bona fide nature.
               As the day progressed, the affair in contemplation partook somewhat the mystery of a bal masqué; for upon completing the arrangement of the court apartment, its doors were locked, admission refused the ladies, and all entreaties bearing upon questions for the satisfaction of their curiosity firmly and peremptorily resisted. We were not to be admitted into the secrets of the court-clique. Isabel sweetly exclaimed against a bond of such freemasonry existing among the gentlemen alone. Miss Willoughby encouraged the eloquence which, she was positive, lurked in their brains, and which, in lava tide, would surely overwhelm the audience at the moment of outburst. Maud appeared unlike her usually repellant self; gay almost to levity was she, while the brilliant vermilion dyeing cheek and lip lent a regal beauty to her countenance.
               At five, the dressing-bell rang. And then after dinner it was announced that the participants in the trial were to disperse to their several apartments, and there array themselves in attire suitable to the occasion.
               
               To support her in becoming dignity, our sovereign was to be accorded the privilege of choosing three of her maids of honor for attendants. In accordance, Miss Dacre, Nell, and myself were quickly and innocently adorned in robes of white muslin, with a couple of flowers hiding beneath a leaf or two as ornaments for our hair.
               At the last moment, seizing a cluster of red-hearted buds, I crossed over to Maud's apartment; and there, in admiration of her loveliness, fairly held my breath. She wore a robe of rich black velvet; it fell open at the throat, and lay upon her bosom beneath snowy drifts of lace. The sleeves were modeled so that her arms were revealed in all their grace and dimpled curves; more drifts of lace swept the velvet back from those lovely arms, whose whiteness brought you a memory of pearl-foams decking the brow of old ocean. A veil of gauze depended from her head, beneath which the hair-ripples went waving from her temples; above the tip of one pink ear it was caught by a star,—a golden Antares studded with diamonds.
               With my dress in its simplicity, but a mountain daisy beside the tropical splendor of Maud's attire, I knelt before her, vowing in words semi-tragical of acceptation my fealty to my queen forever and aye.
               In romances genteel maids flaunt their poverty in robes of white. I am not poor as go the goods of earth, but I hope I'm genteel; so having read of the enthusiasm created by aforesaid maids, I contemplated with complacency, when down upon my knees, that unobtrusive toilet of mine.
               "Get up, child," exclaimed Maud, patronizingly; "you're rumpling your flutes and tumbling your hair."
               Carriages rumbled up the avenue: the neighbors were arriving; a brilliant fantasia simultaneously struck up from the musicians. Then, a knock at the door. We were requested to descend below-stairs, where the gentlemen were awaiting us with impatience.
               So, following in the wake of a footman, we proceeded down the marble stairway, and into the picture-hall that adjoined the music-room.
               No one was visible excepting Captain Mildmay, Nell, and Miss Dacre.
               The gentleman informed us the trial was shortly to commence; that all required of us was to march solemnly into the court-room to the sound of a dirge played by the band; then, escorting our sovereign to her throne, we were to take up a position beside her. Perhaps the lord judges would call upon the prisoner for a defense; perhaps not. At all events, we might assure ourselves that we had merely to stand up and be harangued at by the counsel and gazed at by the audience. This mild assertion caused Miss Dacre to appear extremely uncomfortable, as if the prospect in anticipation were anything but agreeable.
               Damask hangings divided the two apartments. Having discovered in these curtains a loophole, and stationing herself before it (with the inquisitive Hope Vairin beside her), Maud scanned the scene with gaze of ridicule.
               It was at least a picture of brilliancy. From the ceiling depended a blaze of lights; while upon brackets around the wall were arranged lamps upon bronze and ormolu pedestals. The guests, richly attired, were humming as so many bees, and glancing anxiously towards the door whence the judges were expected to enter.
               Awaiting its occupants the bench of judgment was displayed in state; hard by, two gentlemen were seated at a table, employed in examining lawyers' briefs, writs of evidence, etc. These were the advocates for the crown, composed of Mr. Brent and Guy Buddington.
               The jurors were in attendance, borrowed for the occasion from the neighboring mansion of Parkdale Lodge.
               At the same table, and with arms folded upon its glaring red cover, were gathered Mr. Dacre and Ensign Willoughby,—counsel for the prisoner; the latter expecting to acquit himself creditably in a defense which evidently he was then conning over and learning by rote.
               The hall door was flung wide; four solemn-visaged men attired in judges' robes,—crimson, with lappings of daintiest white,—and attended by a footman, entered, and with formal step mounted the bench of justiciary. I did not recognize them; with mournful gravity they gazed down upon the floor, looking intently there as if it were expected of them never again to raise their wigged heads.
               
               "Come," said the captain,—"come, Miss Buddington, the prisoner must be placed at the bar."
               In a trice Maud had adjusted her veil so as to conceal her features. Nell took up her station in the front; the hangings were thrust aside, and slowly, solemnly, we marched into the court, while from an antechamber wailed forth an air highly suggestive of graveyards, cypress, and bony skeletons.
               How absurd it seemed, dear journal!
               A murmur of applause came from the crowd as upon her throne Queen Beauty sank in apparent dejection, her maids grouping themselves in the rear.
               The presiding judge spoke:
               "Beauty, sovereign of the united kingdoms,—Heart and Love,—attend, and hear the charge which is to be preferred against you."
               In an instant I had detected that judge spite of his scarlet robe and powdered wig. It was none other than Sir Edgar, who, by reason of his extensive dabbling in literature, flatters himself he is an authority upon any and every question.
               The indictment was read. It set before us in abstract, technical form that crime of which the prisoner was accused. It laid the charge of murder at Beauty's door; inasmuch as like another Circe, they said, she had steeped men's souls in the poison of her love. She had drugged them with the vials of her wonderful fascination, and hurled them by the score reeling from her kingdom, to be dashed into torment upon the rocks of despair.
               Queen Beauty was charged with the sin of foul murder!
               Every one, as must be usual upon occasions thus extraordinary, stared his neighbor full in the eye; then gazed long at Miss Buddington, who was interrogated as to whether she were guilty or not guilty.
               "Not guilty," issued in clear, distinct tones from beneath her fleecy veil.
               The reading of the indictment over, the pleadings were begun by the counsel for the prosecution.
               He first proceeded to draw a picture of the influence female beauty wields over the soul of man. He carried his listeners with him, step by step, up a ladder of bliss until he revealed to them an Eden of glory in contrast to which that mediæval garden inhabited by old Adam was thrust far into shadow.
               He painted man as he is when swayed by beauty; aspiring to no higher exaltation than that of reigning in one small kingdom,—home.
               She who stands guard over her lord's hearthstone with the flaming sword of her womanliness unsheathed to do battle with the foeman; she who wreathes her lips in smiles and decks her brow with the pearls of contentment; who speaks in voice mild and tender; whose language is tempered with wisdom; she who leads her little children into the way of righteous understanding; she, and she alone, is that fair dream-daughter pictured by the great Solomon when he tells us:
               "Who may find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies."
               On the other hand, the learned counsel prepared to limn with skillful brush such a one to whom that gift of God is most fatal. Vividly before the audience he arraigned an ideal siren, and compelled them in tones stentorian to hearken to her example.
               They followed her with intense interest, as, vampire-like, through the mazes of time she fed upon the blood of her victims. He showed us the eyes that dealt in falsehoods; the mouth that caressed and stung with the same red lips; the hair, all glittering, that wove a net-work around the hapless mortal; the fingers that with insidious touch interlaced themselves in scores of hearts, riving asunder, without mercy, cords and tendons; the hands that would be dripping with gore, did such murders cry aloud for vengeance; the soul that would be black as Erebus, and foul with the curses heaped upon its fairness.
               All this, and much more that I cannot now recall, did the learned counsel put forth. And he wound up with the hope that the gentlemen of the court would do their duty,—painful though it should prove. The accused was a young and lovely female, therefore, in her deplorable situation, appealed to the clemency of the jury through the influence of powerful abettors. It was not necessary for him to detail the facts of the case, since they were far too widely understood to challenge doubt; and if, after a charge of such nature as was contained in the indictment, the prisoner were unable to advance obvious proof of her innocence, she must then abide by the decision of the law, and suffer its penalty accordingly.
               The counsel for the crown bowed himself to his seat amid a burst of applause.
               It was Mr. Brent who had stormed us in this way with his eloquence. "Aha!" mused I, maliciously, "you know by experience, sir, something of these siren-women. I'm downright glad Lady Ada murdered you as she did. What a meet punishment for my Lord Ogre!"
               Hearing this mark of enthusiasm surge from the friends of her accuser, Queen Beauty, as in duty bound, drooped her head lower and lower. She was supposed to be waxing intensely melancholy as the learned gentleman of the bar finished his discourse in this round of acclamation.
               From my stand beside the throne, gazing down upon that crowd, and those four powdered heads, and the several jurors, counsels, etc., I could not help the thought that after all there is about as much reality in the great outside world as in that little court, which is but an apartment where, upon ordinary occasions, Nell hammers the keys and sings her absurd little plaints.
               There is about as much reality in those four white wigs, concealing the respectable scalps of four respectable gentlemen, as in the outer life, where masks and wigs are not unfrequently worn. Nor robes of scarlet faced with silken stuffs and concealing beneath their dignity characters altogether different when in ordinary attire.
               After all, there is but surface everywhere. We seem. God pity him or her who fancies semblance reality! I suppose in another world we shall turn true faces to one another, understanding why is it that upon earth human lives and loves are the mystery supreme into which we look darkly, as into a vague, uncertain vision.
               While my fancies were thus speeding away with me, Mr. Dacre had risen and taken his stand at the bar as advocate for the accused. He began his proof by stating the crime for which his client stood arraigned,—a crime, he said, before the horror of which a woman would cower in terror.
               "Your lordships," he continued, addressing the judges, "no doubt understand that from the hour a girl-child opens her eyes upon the face of her mother, she wields a rod of authority. From that hour her ear is surfeited with flattery, her beauty decked off by trinkets and gewgaws. From that hour she nourishes upon the belief that the female province consists in the building up of a kingdom wherein she is to reign sovereign absolute.
               "During the time of girlhood what is her task? She collects together her dreams, fancies, visions; her pictures in the fire; pictures in the clouds; smiles, sweet words; her many sharp little arrows, such as down-dropping lids, sudden up-looks that carry a man's soul tumultuously out to sea, ambiguous little speeches that convey a great meaning, yet express nothing.
               "All this material she collects during the time of maidenhood, and, behold! there springs up a structure cloud-capped, ornamented with façades of roseate dreams, pinnacles of blushing hopes, and turrets reaching quite to Paradise. And then your queen of beauty bursts the chrysalis by assuming sway over her kingdom.
               "Is it a marvel her vassals should bow to the earth before loveliness so majestic? Is it a marvel she should test to an extreme her power, ever wringing their loyal but much-to-be-condemned hearts by grinding her heel upon those bended necks. Is it a marvel?
               "On the contrary, your lordships will perceive this procedure to be a natural sequence. I beg, however, to differ from my learned brother of the bar, inasmuch as I believe Queen Beauty—be she fairer than Eve, more godlike than Juno—may never pass beyond the wringing of a heart, do she her utmost. The mischief accomplished amounts to but little at the best. A wise philosopher tells us that men have died, worms have fed upon their carcasses; but no woman need ever accuse herself of his murder.
               "That heart of man least stout rallies after a blow or two from her dainty hand. Queen Beauty may continue her work of destruction with impunity: blood can never possibly be spilled upon such provocation. I should have but a poor contempt for that man, my lords" (with a broad smile), "who is weak enough to suffer a woman's beauty to work his ruin."
               This and much more did the gentleman assert, until finally, amid cheers and encores, he bowed and withdrew to his place.
               Now I am wondering, journal dear; how one is to ascertain truth in this world.
               We hear one face of a question, and applaud that; then we hear the opposite face, and straightway proceed to beat our hands, sound our cymbals, and rattle our drums in enthusiastic demonstration that we approve the latter equally as well.
               For a few moments silence reigned, during which some formal proceedings were under progress relative to the impaneling of the jury. In defense of the accused there were then summoned to the stand a couple of young men as witnesses. These were evidently pressed into service from out the audience. Bashful striplings! It was a species of torture through which they were put. First they would turn red, then white; stammer, look down, then look up. The spectators were tittering, the prisoner in a secret convulsion of mirth, and doubtless the youths themselves struggling with an effort to refrain from bursting the bonds of decorum and rushing tumultuously from the scene.
               The judge then rose and addressed a few pompous words to the prisoner, recommending her in an earnest exhortation to plead guilty to the charge; but again the answer "not guilty" came from beneath Maud's fleecy veil, and his honor resumed his seat in profound pity for her delusion.
               The king's counsel stepped forward. "My lords," exclaimed he, "there is yet an important witness to be summoned for the evidence of the crown; one whose proof as to the guilt of yonder unfortunate lady is conclusive, as he affirms himself an eye-witness of the crime charged to her hand. Ho, there! attend hither him who waits in the passage!"
               There was much shuffling of feet, and a murmuring of voices in the hall. Then the door swung upon its hinges, opening to admit Captain Mildmay.
               With a firm step, and somewhat quicker than is his usual gait, he advanced towards the space fronting the table, bowed to the judges, then, facing his interrogator, announced himself in readiness to surrender his evidence.
               There was an angry motion of the fingers resting upon the queen's velvet robe, and Maud gazed out upon her enemy with eyes brimful of contempt.
               "Were you a subject of the accused sovereign?" interlocuted the counsel.
               "I was."
               "In which kingdom dwelt you, sir knight?"
               "The kingdom—Heart—where my gracious lady was pleased to regard me her chief counselor."
               The diamond Antares flashed haughtily as the queen tossed back her head in proud, scornful fashion.
               "Know you aught of that dark deed of which she stands accused? Know you aught of the crime charged upon this your sovereign? If so, your solemn fealty to the laws of mankind requires you to divulge the extent of that knowledge. Sir knight, we command you in the name of all that is loyalty and honor to declare your affirmation."
               Captain Mildmay bowed. The old nonchalance of manner was gone. He spoke with emphasis, and his face, though calm, bore tokens of impulse, while the tones of his voice rang out in nervous fire.
               "My lords," he said, turning judgewards,—"my lords, I am ready to stake life itself upon the truth of these my assertions! With your honored permission, and waiving somewhat the formalities of a court-testimony, I beg leave to transport the audience backward a few years to a kingdom by the sea, where Queen Beauty was wont to hold her midsummer revels.
               "At the time, being counselor, yet considering myself but an humble vassal in her majesty's train, I gazed on, a disinterested spectator, when high-handed tragedy came stalking about. And, by a wave of the magic wand,—memory,—I can summon before me that wild, billowed ocean, where all the long day through the waves moaned the coming fate of as brave a knight as ever held lance in rest.
               "Even another Sir Galahad in pursuit of a Holy Grail, paused this valiant knight with his retinue at the gates of that castle by the sea. He tarried day by day, finding himself chained to Beauty's side; so at last fell at her feet, and pledged his love, his faith, to her throughout all time. The blue of her eyes, the gold on her hair, the scarlet of her lips,—these fringed his fetters, and he became powerless to rend them.
               "My lords, my lords, I could tell a pitiful tale of those nights upon the shore; there, when the moon, rising from her glimmering couch, looked over at them across the green of water; when our stately queen forgot her pride, and became the fair, loving woman; when, with kindling brow and whisper of sweetest tenderness, she led him to the gates of heaven; when, finally, with rudest gesture, she hurled him into the depths of Hades. Ay, with her hand so dainty she flung him there, a ruined, murdered soul.
               "Did no fearful cry awake the echoes of night to proclaim her guilt? Did not the trees blending in chorus shout it out to the world? Where were the waxen flower-cups, that they did not gather up the gore weltering from his life-wound?
               "Alas! no cry passed his murdered lips; the trees heard not; neither were the flowers bathed in his blood. For she murdered his soul; the brave faith that had dwelt within it; the joy of living that had pulsed in his veins. She murdered his trust in the fairness of women; his hope of heaven. She sent him, a lost, wailing spirit, into the regions of the accursed.
               "By all the honor once abiding in his nature, by all the vigor of his young manhood, by all the ruin of his afterlife, I commend him to your well-thinking, my lords. Shall he be cast from the world's favor, while she—the murderess—reigns sovereign in the sight of mankind? Shall she be singing in paradise while he is doomed to howl with the lost?
               "By the young lives that are but ruin through her machinations, I pray your justice. They are heaping curses upon her head, and holding up their shattered hopes to plead a guilty charge. She has proven but a beautiful traitress to her vassals. They have thrown off their allegiance giance therefore, swearing to conspire her ruin. Let the voices of these victims be heard, for they thirst for revenge,—deep, strong revenge.
               "My lords, in the name of our grievous wrongs, in the name of her ruined subjects, I pronounce Queen Beauty stained with the crime of willful murder; and pray you that justice be rendered!"
               There was silence throughout the room; during which Captain Mildmay had turned, and cast one long, burning gaze upon Maud. That stare seemed to rouse her as if from a stupor; to challenge her breadth of spirit. There was a flash from the star; she sprang to her feet, tossed back her veil, and confronted the accuser with a bitter hatred upon her face.
               "It is false!" cried she. "Every word from your lips is false. I deny your right to utter defamations such as these. Revoke the lie, sir, you have thus thrown in my teeth!"
               The spectators beat handkerchiefs in air, and in murmurs expressed their admiration of the scene which they evidently accepted as portion of the evening's role.
               The young man stood with arms folded; almost triumphantly contemplating the magnificent creature before him, who, forgetting time, place, etc., and casting aside the shackles of etiquette, was regarding him with a countenance of scorn.
               "It is not false," he retorted,—"it is not false, and you know it; you know it to your heart's core. I will revoke not a syllable."
               The judge, at this, loudly called for order.
               With clinched hand my queen sank down upon her throne. Her accuser was questioned as to whether he were ready to swear away her life by affirming himself upon oath an eye-witness of aforesaid crime. He announced himself both ready and willing. The fiat was decreed.
               Had the counsel for the prisoner anything further to add in her defense?
               The counsel for the prisoner regretted that his proof admitted of no further evidence.
               The crown-advocate then harangued the jury in solemn, "beloved brethren" style. He enjoined them to ponder well upon the importance of the sentence under consideration; to reflect that the world was teeming with deeds of like nature; that hitherto, sex, loveliness, etc., pleading loudly in woman's favor, had restrained man from a course of severity; but that now it only argued the necessity of their pronouncing judgment with firm, unbiased resolution.
               Lastly, the judge arose, and pompously set forth his opinions upon the matter. People were slightly yawning when he retired far back in history as the Spartans at Thermopylæ; though wherefore nobody guessed at the time, nor probably, by ever so great a cudgeling of brains, will succeed in guessing. Then, with considerable difficulty extricating himself from a snarl of dates, battles, and Athenian generals, he recommended the prisoner to the clemency of a propitious fate, and sat himself down.
               The jury were then bowed from the room, and, following in the rear of an attendant, were ushered to an apartment where they were supposed to remain in solemn conclave for the decision of the verdict.
               Maud had snatched down her veil, but I could see that her cheeks were ablaze with indignation, and that her fingers were twirling impatiently.
               When the jurors returned, it was with step ominous as of men with the weight of nations upborne upon their shoulders. The foreman delivered into the keeping of the judge a packet. He glanced over the contents, then gathered himself up in his scarlet robe, as if the duty before him were a vast field for the exercise of any latent talent he might possess.
               A pause. And then, with much needless verbosity, he pronounced the judgment:
               Queen Beauty was doomed to suffer the penalty of an outraged law; sentence of death was pronounced upon her; and the united kingdoms over which her sway had extended were henceforth to be considered fiefs of the crown.
               The trial was then concluded, happily for the soles of my feet.
               Sweeping silken trains, the audience flocked into the drawing-room as a brood of summer birds. The judges followed in their wake; the ensign collected together his useless parchments and vanished with them.
               As Maud rose, I heard her murmur, like to an invisible auditor, "'T was a cruel jest. Oh that I might loathe, hate him with tenfold vigor!"
               An escort of gentlemen accompanied her to the festal scene. Entering with the air of an empress, that robe of velvet with its garniture of lace, and the veil mingling with her golden tresses, decked her glory wonderfully; she looked, indeed, queen among queen-women.
               Every eye riveted itself upon that graceful figure as it crossed the threshold. There was a pause in the music. The guests crowded around to murmur their praises, until Miss Buddington was truly holding sway over a gracious court.
               Poor little Hope Vairin!
               Dear journal, her white muslin and snowy roses retreated into a corner, and were ignored amid the bevy of ladies rustling in silks of Tyrian dye.
               Gentlemen by the score may prate of that old sentimental humbug about beauty unadorned, etc.; put to the test, most ignominiously do they scout their own precepts.
               Wherever was a young lady in peach-blossom satin or corn-flower silk, in necklace of diamonds, or with bejeweled arms, in gewgaw head-dress, or suspicion of rouge,—wherever, I say, was a damsel bedecked in flaring and ultra-fashionable robe, there was her consequent and attendant cavalier.
               With a pair of inquisitive eyes did I observe this, and, while mentally writhing to be invited out of aforesaid corner, before which a stout dowager had ensconced herself, weigh the respective merits of intellect versus Parisian toilet! Why the absurd question? You are aware, journal, that the scale of course descends a couple of hundred inches upon the toilet balance.
               Captain Mildmay had framed himself in a window. He did not appear to be enjoying himself, either. His brow was clouded, and his eyes, riveted upon Maud, never for one moment refrained fastening their lynx-watch upon her, as she floated past him through the mazy intricacy of waltz or salon polka.
               
               Oh, dear, how tiresome it was, sitting there in solitude! Nobody spoke to me, and I spoke to nobody. Every one was dancing or flirting, and I wanted to be dancing or flirting too.
               "Never mind," thought I, in my mind viewing with satisfaction an array of gay silks, and a ball-dress of old Mechlin lace that lies here in my trunk, journal. "Never mind, you horrid men, you sha'n't serve me this way again."
               I wish I was like one of those creatures in some novels, who never bear to stoop to Terpsichorean pleasures. But I am not one bit like them. My feet were fairly twitching with the effort to hold them in check; and, half crying, I sat behind that stout dowager, and watched with envious countenance the girls provided with beaus.
               "What a sensible little lady it is!" exclaimed a voice. "I am glad, Miss Fay, you, at least, do not participate in these much-to-be-condemned dances."
               And Mr. Brent dropped into a chair beside me. "What troubles you, Miss Vairin?" he asked.
               "I want to dance," said I, stoutly and ill-naturedly.
               "Then why not do so?"
               "Because nobody has asked me," I answered, in a shaky voice.
               "Do you know I am downright glad of it? I have sought——"
               "Miss Vairin," at that moment exclaimed Ensign Willoughby, coming forward with flushed face, and almost upsetting the dowager on his way,—"Miss Vairin, where have you hidden yourself? Here I've been searching the rooms over for you. May I have the pleasure of this waltz?"
               I started up gleefully, and, forgetting, in my joy, even to glance towards Mr. Brent, tripped off with my partner.
               The music of that waltz! It was like floating on a sunbeam.
               Over the ensign's shoulder (he is rather a small man) I could detect, now and then, a stern face grown sterner, as round and round we spun. And though the sight of that ugly face makes me shudder, nothing just then could have brought me trouble. It was life such as I have dreamed of, to be whirling beneath those lustrous lights, and to feel my pulses drowned in the flow of music.
               Remember, journal darling, this is a new, strange world to me. Shut up first in that tiresome French pensionnat, then in an old abbey like an enchanted princess, of course the hum of pleasure is bound to intoxicate me with its voice of bliss.
               Dancing appears to be my natural forte. I did it well to-night, too; because, to use a strong figure of speech, I danced with my whole heart and soul.
               The music lulled. Ladies were promenading the terrace. The four judges sat down to a rubber of whist; other old gentlemen instituted a game of euchre, and were soon in those irascible tempers that are proverbial with excitable old gentlemen who play euchre.
               By a significant gesture, Maud summoned me to her. "Come with me," she whispered, "for a quiet breath outside. The room is stifling, and—and I want rest."
               We left the company unobserved, and went into the garden. Over the ridge of a mountain the moon was peering. Every flower-stalk bore a white glory; the lilies were a burst of purity; the roses red and glowing.
               What a night it has been! I shall never forget how calm and still the trees, and the river, and the stars were. From our seats within the vine-screened summer-house we could catch a gleam of marble, with windows, framing, each, a picture of light and radiance. The music struck up, and then came surging past a whirl of dancers.
               We two sat there, gazing languidly out upon the mansion; it seemed a burning mass before us. Then a shadow obscured it; Maud, starting hastily, looked hard and long at somebody before she sank down again, grasping my arm with nervous clutch, and turning her back to the intruder, whoever he was.
               I looked up in alarm.
               Over her shoulder a dark, bronzed visage was thrusting itself, then a voice whispered, excitedly,—
               "For God's sake, Maud Buddington, have done with mystery, and let us come to an understanding at last!"
               "What do you mean, Captain Mildmay?" she retorted, rising, but confronting him with placid demeanor.
               
               The young man's countenance had grown pale; through the bronze skin its pallor gleamed startlingly; his eyes, too, had caught a wildness in their lustre, and as he strode nearer Maud, they burned upon her with searching eagerness.
               "What do I mean? What do I mean? They tell me you are the betrothed of Lord Chester; but do you deem me a dolt, an idiot? Do I not perceive that your chains are heart-heavy, ay, are galling you to the soul? You suffer, suffer hourly,—you think. But, God in heaven! do you dream how I suffer too?"
               He stooped, and wrung her hands, as if in his hot grasp they were flowers to be withered by the pressure.
               It was startling,—the sight of this man suddenly transformed into a being whose energy of speech and bearing proved him unstrung by an emotion of intense depth.
               "I can stand it no longer. You see that I am wrought up to desperation. What is that man's claim upon you in comparison to mine? Had I crossed your path after these many years of separation to find you happy in his love, God knows I would have made no sign, but have gone my way; but detecting your misery, seeing with my own eyes that you are most miserable, I have come to you, my queen, a veritable beggar, to sue for a morsel of that love once you gave me. See, Maud, I bow my knee to the ground and plead for it. God! I would rather be cast a crumb from your hand than feast with royalty!"
               For a moment he had dropped upon one knee. The velvet robe swept the floor a pace or two; the veil stirred softly in the wind. Then, with clear, mocking gaze, looking into that passionate face, Miss Buddington said,—
               "Are you an adept in raising scenes, sir? If so, please to find a more partial confrere. For my part, I detest anything partaking of the tragic."
               Saying this, she was about to pass him; but, detecting the movement, he seized her arm, and forced her to remain.
               "You shall hear me, beautiful, maddening woman! There is a devil, Maud, latent in every man's heart; take care you do not rouse mine; take care you do not goad me on to frenzy, as you have tried to do, since last we met in those olden days. For I could kill you when you look at me so and speak to me with that pride on your lip; yet I loved you through all, and do love you, and shall love you for all time to come, you cold, cruel woman,—most cruel to your lovers. Is it for their love's sake?"
               "What have I done to you?" questioned she, scornfully measuring him from head to foot. "What have I done to you, pray?"
               He caught her hands in his.
               "What have you done to me? Wait, and I will tell you. You have cursed my life! Blasted my vision of happiness! Tossed me out upon the world an ugly, misshapen twig. This is all you have done! But for you I might now be sitting at my own hearthstone, with children's faces at my knee. But for you I might not be unlike my fellows. And if you turn from me now, if you give yourself to another man, it will break my heart. Maud, do not ruin me out and out."
               "And why should not I?" she answered. "It is what I would wish to do. If I could, I would tear your heart out piece by piece. I would work your bodily ruin. You have wrecked my happiness on earth. We shall soon be quits, I think."
               A vengeful demon shone in her eyes. She made no attempt to release her hands, and might have presented the picture of a woman glancing up playfully into her lover's countenance, did not that lurid gleam flash from them.
               "Do you want to send me to perdition?" burst from his lips.
               "I am nowise particular, Captain Harry Mildmay. Of course, if you are naughty——"
               "Hush!" he muttered, hoarsely. "I will have none of these mocking speeches. Listen to me for but a moment, if your woman's tongue can still itself that long."
               There came from the Court the music of Von Weber's Last Waltz; in fitful bursts and pauses the melody floated out upon the night; the dancers whirled past the casements in maddening zeal; men and women bobbing, spinning, while within a pace of them, for aught I knew, two people were about to tear each other limbless.
               "Great Heaven!" thought I, "everybody is going mad; the music is mad; the world has turned upside-down."
               
               "Eight years ago, Miss Buddington," he continued, "we met at Scarborough. You were young then, almost too young to have penetrated the depths of a man's love. Yet I believed in your truth; was verily fool enough to believe in you when you plighted me your troth. And I told you, trusting in your honesty the while, the peculiarities of my lot.
               "I told you how, one day, I would step into a baronetcy. I told you I would, one day, be a rich man, with many landed estates; owning a house in town, a villa at Brighton, a box at the opera, a shooting-box in Scotland, and Heaven knows what else. Horses by the stud, hounds by the score; a coach and four, a tandem, and the devil knows what not! I told you this; yet I believed your love was for myself, not for what I was to possess.
               "Well, there is a string of old saws that might have taught me wisdom. I chose rather to stake my life and honor on this lovely hair, these eyes, this scarlet mouth; the consequence was I lost, and lost heavily.
               "I had loved you but a few brief years, when my old uncle cuts me off from those great expectations by taking unto himself a wife. Then, Maud, I saw was my time for testing your love. I wrote you a letter. It lives in my brain yet, and ran thus:
               "'Circumstances, Miss Buddington, have altered my entire plan of life. Yesterday counting myself a fortunate man, to-day I am upon the world a mere beggar without a pittance. My baronet uncle having married a lady in every manner eligible as a wife, it is probable my hopes are forever blasted in that quarter. Hand-to-hand with poverty I shall commence life. Under these difficulties, not desiring to bring misfortune upon one whom I sincerely love, pray consider yourself released from all engagements formed with me, and free to enter into new troth with him who shall prove a more fortunate man than Harry Mildmay.'
               'Was not that it?"
               She bowed her head.
               "Day after day I thirsted for your answer. It came at last. A sheet of dainty, perfumed note-paper, with but one word, 'Free!' upon it, together with a packet containing taining the opal ring,—my pledge of betrothal to you, and a gift which was tossed back in my face, without so much as a word of mercy to allay the pain.
               "There, Maud, was your love for me! You cast me from you when I lost my gold. Oh, shame! shame!"
               She did not utter a word. Her breathing came quick and heavy, and her face was distorted strangely.
               "Oh, my beautiful queen, I would have toiled day and night to win you! No galley-slave would have borne his chains more constantly than I would have done. If you had but proved true to me then, I should have dared any fate. I should have climbed the ladder of fortune and won treasure for you. For long years I have tried to cheat myself into believing that I had forgotten you; but I knew it was a cheat and a lie. Ah, Maud, why did not you love me a little?"
               With a violent effort she wrenched herself from his grasp, and in a hard, cold voice, exclaimed,—
               "It is worse than useless to dig into the grave of that past. But for my own vindication, let me say that I loved you for yourself alone, alone, alone! Do you hear that?
               "I did love you for yourself alone. But I knew at the time you bore a reputation for breaking hearts by the score as well as plighted troths; so perhaps did not trust you as I might have trusted a better man.
               "You must remember when we separated—I, to travel abroad, you, to remain in England—your letters came two, three days in a week. So on for months, and I was foolishly happy. Then, an interval of silence; weeks passed, until a month had elapsed, and no word from you.
               "At last, came that cold, formal note, scarcely explaining matters; leaving me but to understand your desire that we should part and be henceforth mere friends. What do I say? Friends! I vowed at the time we should be enemies. And enemies we shall ever be; bitter, bitter enemies!
               "I considered that note a paltry excuse to gain your freedom, so tendered it with willing hand.
               "Now, all explanations being complete, if you are a gentleman, you'll detain me no longer."
               
               She attempted to pass him, but again that steel-like grasp imprisoned her hands, and again she was rendered powerless to stir.
               "Maud, my own, my queen-rose, and is it true? You love me! you love me! God in heaven, did I ever dream of such happiness!"
               Bending low, he kissed the hands that lay in his; kissed them madly over and over again.
               "Happiness!" the girl echoed, with a laugh of bitterness. "I loved you once, but I love you no longer. You can teach me happiness only with forgetfulness, and I am one who never forgets. Now, I could not be happy in heaven with you. You have dashed my life with sorrow, and it has run through like wine in water; you could not put your hand upon a bright spot in my life, so dark with woe is it.
               "You have killed at one blow the sweet romance of my girlhood. Can you bid the dead rise from its grave? Would not it startle the lookers-on, stalking forth in winding-sheet from the coffin?
               "That sweet romance, that love of mine, struggled in bitter death-throes long ago; you cannot bid it rise. Its ghost would come forth, foul with grave-damp and mould; it would turn you sick with horror to gaze upon such corruption. Pah! The thought makes me shudder. I am afraid of dead things; they are hardly pleasing to one's fancy.
               "Let me pass, sir. I am engaged for this dance, and fancy my partner is weary of waiting for me."
               Still that Weber's Waltz floated on the night. Still the dancers went whirling past each flower-laden window. Still was the moon peering over the mountain-top.
               "For the sake of heaven, Maud, show me mercy! I swear you shall be the happiest woman in all England. Give me but one sweet word, one morsel of hope, and the misery of that past shall be as if it had never been."
               "What!" she cried in disdain,—"what! give up being my Lady Chester for the proud honor of becoming Mrs. Harry Mildmay, wife of an officer in command of her Majesty's Royal Rifles. Indeed! After cursing me in your heart for eight long years as a woman cherishing a greed for gold, shall I, at this late day, be ready to spring into the arms of poverty, thereby losing my reputation for mercenariness? Oh, no. You have taught me wisdom, sir. It cost you not a pang to forsake me; it costs me now not a sigh to tell you how I loathe and hate you. There comes my partner in search of me; you must give place to him."
               "One word, Maud. Sweet, do not be harsh."
               With a hasty movement she flung back his hands and sped away.
               I crouched low in my place, so filled with despair that my heart seemed bursting.
               The figure of a crushed, broken-spirited man leaned outside against the post; a wan, gray face was turned to the moon that climbed the heavens with feet of silver. Once, a groan heaved from his breast, and he struck a clinched hand against his brow.
               God forgive you, Maud Buddington, for this night's work! Is there then, O journal, but desolation in every lot? Wherever I turn there rises up woe,—woe, to look me in the face from other lives.
               I would I had my childhood's simple faith again! Ah me, mine was not a very happy childhood; but I used to look out into the world and imagine a fairy treasure lurking under every bush. I used to believe mine an exceptional lot; and that beyond my reaching was a grand Utopia where the men were brave, the ladies fair, and naught of sorrow known. I used to believe that smiles meant joy, and laughter mirth; that words bore truth upon every syllable, and that love knew no alloy. Now I have gained wisdom; understand that eyes may lie, that smiles are but cheats. I know that bitterness cloys the sweetest cup, and believe there is happiness nowhere but with God.
               The crushed figure dragged itself away; left to myself, I slipped down on the arbor-floor, the muslin and flowers a crumpled mass about me.
               I think the face of that man will haunt me to my dying day. It was a face utterly hopeless; eyes looking out upon the night in that blank abstraction with which death clogs those of his victims when in the toils.
               Voices reached me from an adjacent path.
               
               "Where have you been, Mildmay? Somebody looks mighty uneasy, I can tell you, and I'm off on your scent. I say, tell a fellow, can't you, where you have been?"
               "To the devil, I think," came the moody answer.
               "And where are you going again, pray?"
               "Back to the devil, probably."
               "No, d—n it, old fellow, I say you shall not. Miss Dacre vows you were engaged to her for the last dance."
               "Hang Miss Dacre!"
               "Oh, but come now, that won't do. I say, can't you go in and make peace with her before you start for where you spoke of going?"
               "Where I spoke of going!" in surprise.
               "Why, yes; going to the devil, you said. When do you think of leaving?"
               "Confound your impertinence, Willoughby! D—n it, can't you leave me in peace?"
               Then a step crunched the path, the figure of a man came flying past, bounded over the low stone garden-wall, and plunged into the park beyond.
               I went towards the house. Fortunately, it happened that the terrace was deserted. Queen Beauty was whirling away amid the crowd; her veil ebbed blithely upon the tide, and the flash of her brilliant face, white throat, and arms was dazzling. Two persons were partially concealed within one of the embrasured windows, and their voices in pleasant unison drifted past me.
               They were Isabel and Mr. Brent.
               The riot and gayety seemed to madden me, journal; so I left them all, and have come up to you for quiet.
               But that waltz of Weber's! What demon possesses the musicians to be at it again, and the dancers to twirl themselves into a thousand mocking shapes before my fancy?
               The moon is dipping low; the sheen upon the avenue is lessening perceptibly; the lilies are losing their lustre. But wherever I turn that music shrieks in my ears, and tears at me with wild arms, as if it were a fiend loosed from the depths of torment.
               I cannot go to bed. Oh, if the viols would stop squeaking, and the people would go quietly home! I dare say, journal dear, if they knew there is a poor little girl upstairs stairs, sitting by the window in her crumpled party-dress, with a head aching for very weariness, they would take pity on her, and disperse like Christians.
               At last the music pauses. And, oh! a carriage rolls up; another, and another! Yes, there I see them dash away with their host of white and blue and pink burdens.
               And now there is a noise on the staircase. They are coming up to bed. I hear the girls' low, happy laughter; then, a tripping of satined feet, a banging of doors, and they are all gone.
               But, oh, journal, my friend and love, if this is life, pleasure, and joy, I am sick unto death of it. I believe I will be glad to go back to my abbey home and take up the old cross and portion in preference.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               HOPE WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Alas! what kind of grief should thy years know?
                           Thy brow and cheek are smooth as waters be
                           When no breath troubles them."
                        
                     
                     BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER.
                  
               
               "MISS ISABEL?"
               "Did you speak, Mr. Willoughby?"
               "Yes. It's so confounded hot in-doors! Can't you persuade the ladies out for a row on the river?"
               "Me?"
               "Why not? Certainly, it is you who know how to do the persuading. They couldn't refuse you."
               "Oh, thank you," bewitchingly dropping her eyes.
               Ten days have gone by since I have written a line. Ten days, and they will not accede to my earnest prayer to be taken home.
               I am so tired of them, dear journal, but what can I do? Summer has burst upon us in pomp and splendor. Fruits, crimson and gold, are clustering within orchards. Woods are tinted with green, mountain and valley garlanded with vines. Burning noons have come to drink the earth dry of sustenance. Who will shelter from these tyrants the little flower-children springing into life? Already are shrubs drooping languidly.
               How will the daisies, harebells, and violets dare to live? the blue and yellow butterflies?"
               Poor, poor little creatures!
               The ensign rightly termed it "confounded hot." While sitting at the window, true, a breath of wind fans my brow; but it sweeps past laden with warmth, and lays feverish fingers upon my cheek.
               Where shall I seek comfort?
               Acting upon Mr. Willoughby's suggestion, Isabel succeeded in enticing a couple of the ladies out for a row on the shady river. I,—why, I was far too languid to stir; so from my lounging posture in a fauteuil, watched with indifference the party stroll away.
               We are to have a ball at Buddington to-night; a ball upon a magnificent scale, since the musicians and the costumes have been ordered from London, and the county gentry for miles around are expected to attend.
               Lazily I was turning over in my mind the anticipation of these delights so near at hand, when Miss Willoughby, lounging in an opposite fauteuil, startled me by exclaiming, vehemently,—
               "It's better to be born a cat than a mouse; a dog than a cat, but best of all is it to be born a man than a woman!"
               "Oh!" said I, glancing oddly at her.
               "I thought that highly original observation would rouse you at last, Miss Vairin. But, leaving cats and mice, dogs and cats, and men and women to tear one another's eyes out if they desire so to do, tell me how to arrange my hair to-night. I look positively frightful in curls or puffs."
               "Watteau!" smiled I, lugubriously.
               "Ugh!" she exclaimed. "What with shepherdesses of that style, etc. I am sick of Watteau. Do you think me very queer, Miss Vairin?"
               "Very queer?" I laughed outright. "How should I know? Don't you write poetry, Miss Willoughby?"
               "Is writing poetry, you little mouse, a sign that one is queer? Yes, I write for the magazines and a review or two. But do you think it odd that sometimes I am given to bewailing my slim chances of matrimony, and again rail out at the sex with tongue acrid as gall?"
               Here she was interrupted in her speech by the effort to refrain from succumbing to a hearty burst of laughter.
               "Matrimony, Miss Vairin! Between you and me, I don't believe I would marry the best man alive. Why, I ruined myself in the outset by writing my nonsense and putting it in print. Talk of brains! The only man I ever cared for bowed himself out the moment he discovered I possessed a slight share of the commodity. No! If you want to retain the masculine favor, be a silly ignorant, and sport your paniers and gewgaws! I have yet to hear a woman complimented for her intellect by the sterner sex. No, my dear, you must not show them any brain; half of them wouldn't comprehend you; the other half, being fired with jealousy, would ridicule you. I know the world, and have not lived so long in it as to be ignorant of the fact that for woman there is but bondage.
               "I am not strong-minded at all; only strong-hearted, and because I have endeavored to be independent of the world, it has been revenged upon me by teaching some bitter truths.
               "But somebody must advise me how to do my hair; I must watch out for prospects, you understand!"
               Saying this between smiles and laughter, she ran upstairs warbling a gay French roulade.
               It was after breakfast that the excursionists started for their trip down stream. They had been gone some time, when, finding my solitude quite disagreeable, I proceeded to drag lazy feet up the stairway, and took out my journal for a chat.
               So here I am dawdling over the pages; but—but, I come to a halt for the want of something to say.
               In the hall, a door opens and shuts.
               I bound to the threshold of mine. "Is that you, Maud?"
               No response, and no one in sight. So again I sink down upon my chair, eyes traveling out upon the shrubbery in listlessness.
               
               From the terrace steps a figure in walking-suit, that follows the river-path and moves on to the bridge. In an instant writing-desk is closed, locked, set aside; hat is hastily snatched, and I am off, journal, to overtake my queen, and to have with her one of those dear rambles out of which we, of late, have been sadly cheated.
               
               Night once more, and I am sitting in my ball-dress.
               Oh, journal, I have come to write for you my last pages,—my last, last pages. How do I bear to sit so outwardly calm, guiding my pen as if it were but an ordinary day in life? There is no heart in me for writing; and when you have heard the occurrences of to-day, I shall be dumb and not talk with you for a long time, old friend. Every sound, every footstep, startles me, for that dread of an unknown sorrow is taking unto itself shape, and I know not what revelation an hour may bring.
               This morning I ran myself breathless from the Court. Maud, turning, saw me, and waited upon the bridge.
               "Well?" she ejaculated.
               "Oh," exclaimed I, panting, and fanning myself with my hat, "now I feel in the mood for a stroll. I could walk to the world's end, too. Maud, do you know I've not exchanged a word in private with you since the night of our grand display in the court-room? You have really been shunning me, I think."
               "So I have, so I have. But listen, Hope" (plucking moodily at a splinter on the railing), "and I will tell you why. You heard, then, the story of that bad, foolish past; and since, those great eyes of yours follow me around incessantly. They burn deep into my better nature and irritate me. There,—they are doing it now; it means you are pitying me. I won't be pitied, I tell you. The world envies me, child; of course it envies me, of course it does."
               I turned aside my head to lean over the bridge. Murmurs were floating up from below where the water goes eddying over stones and rocks; a bird was singing high up in a tree.
               "I have accepted Lord Chester, and am not fond of him. He is aware of this, and yet he loves me; he loves me as I crave to be loved, and, marrying him, he will teach me my lesson, and I shall learn it as a child glad over the new primer bright with pictures. There is my destiny in a nutshell, Hope! Is not it one to be envied? Certainly. Let who will dare to offer me pity!"
               We were silent then; she, gazing into the river, I, watching the bird that had flown forth to welcome her mate.
               "Ah, come, Maud," I said at last, "let us take a stroll into yonder wood. I've a fancy for exploring its mysteries. Will you?"
               But she shook her head.
               "We might meet hobgoblins. I am afraid of them, you remember."
               "But I am not," laughed I, "and I am going to dare them to come forth. Good-by."
               I left her leaning over the rail, and, crossing the bridge, sped on for my ramble.
               On and on I strolled,—feet pleasantly dropping into banks of turf,—sole intruder into that sylvan parlor whose carpets are moss and grass, and whose hangings are formed of the emerald plumage of trees.
               To rest, I sat down upon a ledge of stones lining the margin of a bit of water. It was very lonely there. I had left all the birds behind me; not even a grasshopper was to be seen, springing and leaping in tiny brown coat and trowsers. The quietude and loveliness of the spot pleased me, as, leaning a tired head upon my hands, I fell to wondering of my brother's fate.
               Journal, my friend, though I have carried a sparkling face, and laughed and jested, a heart full of heaviness drags its burden beneath.
               If there would only come one little word to assure me of his welfare, it might be otherwise.
               My way has never been to droop and pine, thrusting my misery in the faces of others; often I have rushed into their pleasures to drown thought and care,—carking care; but ever before me rises a vision of Bertie with his voice of despairing recklessness, and I seem to be the one accursed,—sporting with the gay and lofty, while he must skulk about, an outcast.
               
               
                  
                     "God answers sharp and sudden on some prayers,
                     And thrusts the thing we have prayed for in our face,
                     A gauntlet with a gift in it."
                  
               
               As if in response to the miserable cry of my soul, I raised my head to see standing before me none other than Poacher Bill.
               "I'm sorry fur you, miss," he growled out, "bein' as it's all up with us!"
               "I do not know what you mean," I said, starting up; "but only tell me where my brother is. You have seen him,—you have warned him of his danger,—he has gone, and——but why do you not speak?"
               The man looked away as if confused.
               "I haven't seen him, miss. Martin,—he was took sick afore we got to town, and bein' as we hear tell of the 'tectives takin' after us, I jest had to leave him, and hide myself in the woods; then when I got back to the tavern where he wur, they told me he wur 'rested, and taken to jail; so what could a mon do but take care of himself, you know?"
               "You are a bad, wicked creature," I exclaimed. "What has Martin Cross to do with your promise to find Bertie? Do you know you have told me a terrible falsehood?"
               "Hold there, my purty lass," called he. "I heard them say as how there was a goin' to be a deal o' trouble in this matter; and I got in and made friends with one of the 'tectives, and he told me all about it; he told me as how they wur 'restin' Cross because he had murdered the young lord, but that he himself believed Mr. Herbert Chester had done it anyhow; and that they had got news of him bein' over in Paris, and that he would have to come back to London 'fore long. But don't take on so, miss, for I can a'most swear your brother'll get clear."
               I could not utter a word, for the burst of agonizing suspense was choking me; only sank in the grass, trying to reason my sorrow down, when the sound of huntsmen's voices in loud and close hallooing, together with a yelping of hounds, caused Poacher Bill to plunge into a neighboring copse. He disappeared finally, and I saw him no more.
               Oh, Misery, Misery!
               Lower I crouched behind a wall of shrubs, and on bounded the fierce pack, and the sportsmen in scarlet jackets; they brushed by, not perceiving me in my hiding-place.
               When they were out of sight, moved by some unaccountable terror at the loneliness of the spot, I sped on under the trees, until the water and the bridge were gained.
               Maud stood there still, leaning over the rail. The river's bosom was very cold and fair. Two others were there also, but I did not look at them, did not pause until their laughter smote my ear.
               Then the spell was broken. I staggered to one of the posts, and my queen, taking my hand, gazed wonderingly at me, while she cried between a smile and a laugh,—
               "Little one, I believe you have seen a ghost!"
               Now I have done, dear journal-friend.
               They will find me out soon, and those who have wished me well heretofore—these birds of tropical clime—will rather point the finger of scorn at my fallen pride.
               The blow shall not crush me here. I will leave this riot, this whirl of pleasure, and drag myself back to the old desolate abbey, where poor papa is resting in fancied security. How can he bear the brunt of any new shock! It will kill him to learn that the country round is cognizant of our degradation.
               He who is all pride, all hauteur,—he will never endure the pang.
               I will take you to my heart, old friend, take you to my heart and tell you farewell; these kisses are mingling themselves with tears, for it is hard to bereave myself of a precious treasure in a lot otherwise imbued with sadness.
               Yet, I have written my last; have written away all my brightness, and—and, good-by now and forever.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               IT was not my intention to preserve so lengthy a silence.
               Having a story to narrate, I would fain not linger over the prosy details of "once upon a time," but, straightway leaping the gap, penetrate the innermost core of the mystery. Endeavoring, though, to follow the bent of those who take up the thread of fiction, this would be decidedly unwarrantable; like them I must advance my preambles, pros and cons, yeas and nays.
               Setting myself up for a story-teller, I must endeavor to propagate thought, disseminate views, and, first treading sharply upon my own faulty toes, press with vigor-those prominent ones of my brethren.
               There is a deal of balderdash sent abroad under the caption "writing for the world."
               O Tempora! O Mores!
               It is not so. Men and women are wont to loiter by the wayside in dreams.
               At noonday they see the fleecy sky, and hear the voices of children trooping past; at night catch the sheen of stars, and the cry of shuddering women who speak out in desolation. Yet amid this turmoil of labor, sloth, glory and sorrow, on they go, fashioning their visions into song and story.
               It is according to the dreamer's own peculiar nature or experience that he laughs or weeps, sobs or rejoices.
               He weaves some fairy idealism of life; comes to realize, presently, his mistake in toto; then sets to work and bewails his error; with a gay or sober mosaic of thought patterned upon their minds, we have our dreamers.
               And this is what they term "writing for the world."
               Mere fol-de-rol, and peculiar order of idiosyncrasy.
               To take up my narrative in the orthodox fashion:
               "Little one, I believe you've seen a ghost!"
               So exclaimed Maud Buddington as a girl came flying across the bridge with face white and hopeless. It was an evening in summer, when woods are green, and nature wears her robe of blossoms as a queen. We had been idling away the moments in listless attitude, but, when Fay appeared so unexpectedly, looked toward her in some anxiety. She made an effort to respond to Maud's attempt at levity, but failed, and clung to the wooden post for support. Nothing was said in comment upon behavior so inexplicable; the others wondered, no doubt, as to the cause, and I, myself, felt rather in the dark, being unable to attribute a direct clue to grief visible and loud-voiced as this.
               A burst of song rose from the neighboring hills.
               It swelled in tone, and a boat shot in sight from behind a bend in the stream. The party on board were singing, and waving hats and handkerchiefs towards us.
               How pleasant was that noon! Trees were shutting out the sun's glare and heat, and framing canopies overhead. Here and there a bit of sky looked in; the river made low plaint as it tumbled on over rock and stone. The banks were fringed with flowers; between, came gliding along the boat laden with its merry crew.
               "What is it they are singing?" inquired Maud.
               "Some rusty air from an opera bouffe," promptly responded my companion—Mildmay; "the hero, you know, is poor, and the heroine, of course, cannot marry him. Thereby hangs a tale."
               "And a very wise heroine she was," laughed Maud, gayly.
               The boat was dropping down stream again, where soon she deposited her party upon a neat little landing. We turned to enter the house.
               "Mr. Brent," whispered a voice.
               There stood that poor little Fay beside me, who, as she encountered my gaze, looked away, and did not speak.
               "What is it, poor child?"
               "I—I want to ask you something."
               But there she leaned heavily upon the post, and stooped low, her great tears falling the while.
               "What is it?" again I asked.
               
               She could not speak. The trees were tossing their crowns, and the water gurgled lazily on. A bird or two hopped from branch to branch, and sang in loud notes his mid-day orison.
               "Don't cry," said I, feeling miserable, and looking perplexed, as a man is bound to do when a woman weeps.
               She turned aside, and made no response. She was looking up for the bird, but I thought she missed his song.
               "N-never mind, sir," at last her voice managed to stammer. "I shan't—want to ask you anything. Please go, and let me alone. I'm sorry for—for troubling you."
               Poor little girl! She had always had such a pretty, arch way of saying things. She was always so lighthearted, and was so wont to storm herself into pretty tempers, that this mood seemed to me unaccountable.
               Sighing somewhat, I did as bidden; left her to solitude, and shut myself up in my own room. There it suddenly occurred to me that I could comprehend this stage of bitterness through whose waters her soul was passing.
               Was she not in total ignorance of Herbert Chester's whereabouts? Was she not still under the impression that probably he would remain always under that ban of guilt? As yet she knew not my connection with Lord Chester in the matter, or, indeed, that we had any movement on foot in regard to it.
               It was best, thought I, that she hear naught of the proceedings until things were brought to some decided issue. Whether I were right or wrong in adhering to this course time alone revealed.
               Before leaving Wildmoor, when I concluded to make that run up to London, it was in my thought to keep wholly in the background, and, simply laying my convictions before Lord Chester, to step aside and let justice take its own course.
               As has been shown, circumstance was a cruel iconoclast. In the first place, the accident that kept me a prisoner in Stanley Abbey for several weeks of necessity prevented the journey. And when, upon my recovery, I sped upon the earliest train to that city of fogs, it was only to learn that Lord Chester was fairly on his way for a tour through the Crimea.
               What was to be done?
               I bethought me of his banking-house. But there, somewhat, my calculations were foiled, for I found he had drawn largely on account, with the recommendation to his banker to forward neither letter, telegram, nor check until by express order of his own, for he was totally uncertain as to the route that would be pursued.
               Once, during the hegira, such order had traveled to the firm. It had arrived two weeks previous to my coming, and they could not tell me but that a month or two might intervene before the receipt of a further message. With this data to go upon, no marvel was it that thought came to a standstill.
               Exacting a promise that they should not fail to telegraph me whenever news was received of the runaway, I returned home much depressed in spirits. Then ensued that folly of follies—my confab with the girl Martha, or Patty Doyle, as she was best known to me; her stern, indignant denial of knowledge or complication in the matter; subsequently, her flight from the abbey; and finally, to my extreme vexation and discomfiture, the disappearance of Martin Cross from Wildmoor. The girl, probably, had warned him.
               Then my resolve was formed.
               Taking the responsibility upon my shoulders, again I went up to London; notified the authorities, who, upon sifting the case thoroughly, decided to take immediate steps towards the imprisonment of my groom. Unexpectedly, news had been received of Lord Chester, and without delay I wrote him of what was in the wind, urging his immediate return to England.
               That was a stirring time. The keenest, the sharpest of London detectives was placed upon the track of the murderer. I knew he would not fail to gain the scent, and, with this knowledge to ease me into security, went down to Buddington with my sisters. Had not been settled there but a couple of days when a dispatch reached the Court, with the announcement that Lord Chester had received my letter whilst on the point of embarking for Constantinople. He would immediately set out on his journey homeward; would push his way across country, traveling post-haste, and would be with me at as early a date as possible.
               At all events, such news was cheering. There was nothing further to be done but to await patiently the tide of fortune.
               Soon all would be righted,—all that had made life awry. Did not I, in fancy, portray full well the consequences that would bear down upon this righting of a young fellow's life?
               Did not I see vividly before me the picture of Miss Vairin's reunion with her lover,—her triumph over myself, her face brightening amid its tresses of brown hair,—brightening as only those faces that have consorted with misery can do?
               Ay, I knew it well. I saw it all. Think you the knowledge brought not an agony to torture into a veritable hell every desire that had encompassed my being?
               Let those who have trodden my path answer. Thus it was that day by day I was awaiting the issue of events; day by day expecting to be startled by some decisive action, by some new appearance upon our little dramatic stage. I could scarcely bide the flight of hours, and that day when, after looking my last upon Fay with head cast down upon the bridge-rail, I sat me by my window, it was with the old aching pain fast upon me,—the old aching pain that I would have moved heaven and earth to be rid of.
               It was the day of the ball, I well remember.
               By nine o'clock Buddington Court revealed a galaxy of light from turret to basement. No guests having as yet arrived, I prowled through the suite of rooms open for their reception, with sentiments little befitting a man about to participate in a grand social festivity.
               The music-room was a gem in its way. Chairs, tables, and cabinets of satin and sandal-wood, upholstered in designs of sheeny green satin, were grouped promiscuously about. A grand piano, a harp, also several violins and guitars, were scattered throughout the apartment. Mirrors set in rich old Dresden frames lined the walls. It was a dolce far niente of a nook, and, to one possessed of Sybarite nature, the acme of luxury and cultivated taste.
               The picture-gallery was large and lofty, with heavily-carved carved ceiling and paneled walls. Its windows overlooked the river, and in mullioned radiance were flung wide to admit the glimmer of starlight shining red in the sky. There were many choice bronzes and groups of statuary. The portraits leaned majestically from their frames; presented a long line of Buddingtons to the view,—a line of stately dames and cavaliers for centuries back. The drawing-room was a vast wilderness, where one lost himself amid a glimmer of Venetian mirrors, buffets of oak laden with bijouterie, consoles whose tops of lapis lazuli were of costliest product, and statuettes and Oriental vases of rarest collection.
               The walls were paneled with some rare wood, the ceiling arabesqued with a fresco of gold against a delicate rose design, and the windows were lofty and stained with mellow rays. The carpets were of white velvet, with here and there bouquets of Southern roses faintly blossoming into life. The furniture was ebony, albeit overlaid with rose-embossed velvet. At intervals chandeliers depended from the ceiling, supporting clusters of misty lights that gleamed like the sleepy eyes of Pleiads overhead. Groups in bronze and marble bent coldly forward from their niches, lace and silken hangings swayed before the casements, and at the western corner of the apartment glass doors revealed the mosses and green ferneries of a conservatory.
               For the space of half an hour, at the smallest computation, I lingered there idling over the elegant trifles, wondering when the ladies would consent to be torn from their mirrors, or if, indeed, they would ever consent that night.
               Whilst vaguely marveling after this manner, there came a rustling, and a pattering of slippered feet. Through the length of the room, a figure, all in white, glided quickly along, which, as it paused before me, lifted a sweet, blushing face to my gaze. It was a figure with a cloud of lace wreathing mistily about it, with bare neck and arms, and with gold-brown hair crowned by a garland of dewy buds and mosses.
               "I was very simple and foolish to-day," said Fay. "But, Mr. Brent, I wanted to ask a favor of you. Won't you please take me home to-morrow?"
               
               "Won't you please?"
               Ah, pretty Fay, you could be humble when it suited your caprice,—even humble to Lord Ogre.
               "Have you tired of Buddington?" I inquired.
               "No, oh, no, sir; but——" the fan tapped her fingers playfully.
               "I do really want to get home, sir. Won't you take me?"
               Could a man have resisted such eyes, such a tone? If he could, he was built up of more iron than was Geoffrey Brent.
               There was movement in the hall,—a rush of liveried servants as carriage wheels were heard; then more were audible; a scene of gay bewilderment ensued indeed when each vehicle began to deposit its occupants, and the gorgeously arrayed ladies and pompous gentlemen moved towards the ball room. When the apartments were full of people, it was a picture, merely, of be-flowered, be-jeweled confusion,—a picture inciting me go quietly off to bed. For they danced, flirted, promenaded, toying over ices with dainty fingers; they praised the beauty of the starry night; and, in short, transformed me for the nonce into a mere growling beast of prey whose lair has been rudely trespassed upon.
               It was in one of my tramps from garden to terrace that I saw Miss Willoughby standing alone in a window. I went there, framing myself beside her. This lady was an oddity, by the way.
               But I have noticed all women who express themselves freely in conversation, and without regard to the petty vanity of their listeners, are considered as peculiar, eccentric, or odd. She did not announce herself a type of the strong-minded, nor did she desire the notoriety that would inevitably have been awarded a champion and propagator of the doctrine, "Woman's rights and woman's wrongs."
               Somehow the evil had been imputed to her, and had clung, as it will invariably do, to her skirts for a couple of years past. She was a clever writer; but one of her first articles in the London Review had accomplished (what she was wont to facetiously term) the ruin of her matrimonial prospects. It had borne her fame, though; so what mattered?
               Scathing criticism turned its tide full upon that luckless article; for there lingers in man a constitutional abhorrence for all asserted claims of womanhood towards a broader sweep of action.
               Our fair sisters must ever consent to remain the gentler sex, the weaker sex, if they would aspire (?) to retaining the good opinion of us men. Michelet terms them, for very pity, the sick sex. Partly through condescension, partly through pride, perhaps, Mill describes them as the subjected sex.
               I much fear there still lurks in our highly-refined, highly-civilized society a remnant of the old barbarism that the physically strong must wield sway over the physically weak.
               Miss Willoughby was an earnest, sympathetic woman. The very strength and depth of her nature hid themselves beneath an outward semblance of shallowness. But at rare times, and in the presence of rare associates, the true, noble womanhood stood forth, and I could not but think to myself, "What a loyal wife some fellow has missed in passing her by!"
               Is not that the pattern of man's thoughts? We are too apt to deem woman the chosen, never the chooser.
               "Aha," exclaimed she, merrily. "I've been watching your prowls hither and thither, Mr. Brent. I do wonder what they mean?"
               "That I'm bored to death, and most horribly tired of all this, Miss Willoughby. In Heaven's name, when will they have done?"
               "My friend," returned she, "I'm afraid you're getting old. Confess now, in your young days wouldn't a rout like this, with a pretty girl upon your arm, have been the very ultima thule of life?"
               "I never remember to have cared much for this sort of thing," I answered, carelessly; then growled out—"I hope I may be soundly thrashed if ever again I'm entrapped into making a party at a country house, with a lot of people ever in one's way. No place to think quietly; no time to read one's letters. Billiards, tenpins, and croquet quet the livelong day. Scouring the country on picnic expeditions, with a ruined tower or something as the incentive to such folly. Picking ferns and mosses for the ladies. Blistering one's hands with rowing them up and down the river. No! Catch me at it again!"
               "Is that picture over yonder a leader to this tirade?" she queried, pointing to a couple of figures that were promenading the hall.
               The lady was ma belle cousine, Isabel.
               "Why do you ask?"
               "Not knowing but what your taste runs in that line, why should I not ask?"
               "Well, you for one would not condemn such partiality?"
               "Oh, no," she said, laughing.
               Other couples were strolling to and fro. Nell, with Guy Buddington, tripped along.
               "What a merry little creature that sister of yours seems to be, Mr. Brent! Happiness appears to have been created for just such women."
               "And why not for such women as Miss Willoughby?" asked I, gallantly.
               "Oh, because I don't mind being unhappy at times. I don't seem to mind things as other people do. It don't matter much in the end, either, whether one has had much of joy or grief, I imagine!"
               "Not to be rude," I said, "but tell me, did you ever find any one who thoroughly understood you?"
               "Never!" returned she, with hearty earnestness. "And I have given over expecting to find it, long since."
               "What do you think of Nell's cavalier?"
               "Guy? He's a great favorite of mine; so true and honest! Not of any depth at all, but well bred, and learned enough for the exigencies of society. I cannot help but admire him, with his strong distaste for music, greedy penchant for hounds and horseflesh, and his reverence of women, and willingness to do anything under the sun to promote one's happiness,—even to the listening to a long fantasia from the dreariest opera."
               "You like to make a study of character," I ventured.
               "Nothing better! Shall I go on? Well. There are your Cousin Maud and Captain Mildmay. How displeased she looks! Don't be angry, Mr. Brent, but I must say it: I do not admire Miss Buddington—her character, I mean!"
               "You have your reasons, of course."
               "Yes. The girl must certainly bestow much thought upon herself, else she would not hold her head with that uncommon air of loftiness. It is not pride, not hauteur springing from the fact of her own position or loveliness. It arises from something far different, I fancy, and I would like to get at the bottom of it, above all things. Her airs and queenly graces are false; they belie her. I'm confident she would be a wonderfully different Miss Buddington, if nature were unwarped by the contingencies of destiny!"
               "Would not we all be dissimilar, unlike our usual selves, in that case?" I inquired.
               She started, perhaps at the home-thrust, and became meditatively silent.
               The crowd passed and repassed us. Weary of watching them, I offered her my arm, and we walked out into the grounds, along where stray couples were flitting beneath the vari-colored lanterns.
               "After all," continued the lady, "it is well to mingle with the world now and then; don't you think so? It helps to throw off one's individuality. God help a woman, Mr. Brent, when she feels that creeping on; when she wakes to the knowledge that she can stand aloof from her fellows, and exist only in a realm of her own. Now, for happiness, that must not be. We must not be able to stand alone; we must let others see our need of them. We may not drag our individuality into the light of day, but must shut it up in a dark closet, never, never letting it out."
               "Not unless we happen to find our soul's other half," remarked I, smilingly. "You remember that pretty tradition of the Greeks. They had it that the soul of man was composed of two distinct parts, one of which becoming disunited from the other, it was that other's province to seek throughout the world his lost mate.
               "I believe we sometimes find it,—but rarely. And then when failing, the wisest plan is to continue the search with great anxiety; for fear that, tiring and despairing, we may be brought to fancy any disconnected element our own, and cleave straightway to it.
               "That would be a woful mistake."
               "It would indeed; one that occurs probably every day. Look, yonder is an instance. You see, pacing that walk, Miss Buddington and Captain Mildmay. I'm given to watching people and events narrowly, Mr. Brent, and somehow I've discovered that there is going on between those two a desperate sort of game. No matter what either says, there is couched in the words a mysterious sarcasm or an ironical sword-thrust that buries itself and rankles deep in the bosom of the other. I've seen the gentleman fairly wince, for Maud knows well how to use a tongue of bitterness; her keen play of irony dons no sheath to temper its venom. But that is too dangerous a game for either man or woman to enter upon,—far too dangerous."
               "But, Miss Willoughby, my cousin Maud is the betrothed of Lord Chester."
               "No matter." She laughed in disdain. "That does not prove her incapable of making a bitter mistake, does it? See with what scorn she regards her companion! and in what desperation he is gazing into her lovely eyes! I tell you there's a sort of by-play here that none of us understand. It cannot be she abhors him, else would she be at such pains to level her ironical shafts and harsh jeremiads exclusively towards him?"
               We were nearing the two, as up and down, backward and forward, they continued their stroll beneath the glowing lights.
               "Hush!" said Maud, harshly. "They're coming, they'll hear you. Is not this wearisome half-hour yet over?"
               "I don't care if the universe had ears, and were listening," returned Mildmay. "You're bound to remain five minutes more" (taking out his watch, and looking at it). "Come, be kind; as woman is not half so sweet disporting in grand tragedy airs. Throw aside these heroics, and be gentle—you, who once were all gentleness to me."
               "Sir, do you mean to insult me by referring again to that forbidden subject? I have told you once and for all that with me it is and shall ever remain a dead letter. I shall go in now, whether it pleases or displeases you."
               "Ah, Maud," he whispered, as they moved towards the crowd, "you will give in; you like me better than you own."
               "There!" cried Miss Willoughby, in triumphant manner. "There, didn't I tell you? I was sure of it. But we had better follow a good example, and go in too."
               For some minutes I stood in an obscure corner of the ball-room to watch the dancers.
               Apparently, Miss Vairin was the reigning belle. There was no lack of suitors, no lack of honeyed flattery; but, like an impartial goddess, she dispensed her smiles upon all alike, and thus floated ever in a radius golden from the reflection of her own sunny nature.
               The memory of another night came back to tantalize me. I thought of a girl looking on with envious eyes at a bevy of village lads and lasses dancing the hours away beneath the roof of a simple country barn.
               Then of a voice praising the beauty of the maiden with "the dark, dark hair," deeming her lot one of unalloyed happiness because, forsooth, "all the young men were wanting her for partner."
               Miss Vairin had no foundation for complaint that night at the Court. Such a lot was even within her clutch.
               But was the bloom rich on the golden plum? Were there no thorns springing to pierce her feet?
               Fay,—my child, my child,—standing there in the blaze of light, I saw into your heart, read there its tale of silent, desolate anguish, though the rose was red and fresh on your cheek, and the merriment deep sparkling from eyes and lip.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               GEOFFREY WRITES.
               THE morrow's sun dawned in cloudless splendor.
               The great mansion was silent at that early hour, for our party of revellers, evidently, were weighted with the cares entailed by a communism with pleasure.
               A rare treasure-trove is it to catch the whirr borne aloft upon the wings of morning!
               The first sound you hear is the carol of the lark as he soars heavenward, cutting the blue ether in his flight.
               It is scarce daylight, and you turn drowsily over in your couch, waiting, no doubt, till the pale finger of dawn shall be tipped with flushes of pink.
               Your eyes close, and you sleep that sweetest sleep of man, the time between the paling and blushing of the sky.
               Your dreams are calm and unbroken. If a man, not of notes to meet, entries to balance, nor of a thousand grievances which man alone can know. If a woman, not of household matters, Parisian toilets, or other things that bring only vanity and vexation of spirit. No!
               If you indeed want quiet rest, sealed eyelids, unbroken dreams, you will assuredly find it in a country homestead, in the pleasant slumber snatched hastily in the morning.
               I remember, years ago, we when children were wont to coax a favorite old nurse into strolling off with us into the woods; once there, the riotous troop would gather around her, pulling at her skirts, and pleading, "Please tell me a story!"
               What quiet, quaint evenings those were!
               The hills around were all glowing with purple mists.
               Lights of gold stole up the valley. From a distance we could hear the shepherds calling to their flocks; then the jingling of bells as the herd bounded merrily homeward.
               Oh, simple children, what worlds of novelty unfolded themselves to our vision while listening to those marvelous tales!
               How wonderingly we gazed into the face of the narrator as she told of the slumbering beauty in the enchanted castle; then of the girl who, in consequence of bestowing a draught of cool, bubbling water upon an aged woman, was endowed with the faculty of wafting from her mouth pearls, diamonds, and other precious stones. There was the wicked sister, too, whose punishment consisted in blurting forth, with the words she uttered, reptiles of vile description.
               There was my famous "Jack the Giant-killer," painted in glowing colors; I'll venture to assert we drew in our school-books one-sided pictures of a very small boy slaying the giant, who, giant-like, brandished his club high in air.
               There was the story of the marvelous Bean-stalk, of Puss-in-Boots, Goody Two-Shoes, Cinderella, and the never-to-be-forgotten Blue-Beard.
               I shall ever remember that season of life: it contains the freshness of my youth; so is it I love to think and write of that period. And the summer evenings, then, were endowed with a magical influence. The present drifted quite away. Even the breeze that stirred among our curls was an invisible sprite from Oberon's fairy court. The murmuring of the brook, as it splashed over its pebbly bed, was the sighing of an imprisoned maiden upon whom some magician had practiced his necromancy. The dell sent forth many a problem whose mazy form our ears could not solve. But all that was a long time ago. We have lived, indeed, to learn that young maidenhood is typical of that slumbering beauty. For, see! Are not the eyes touched by the wand of those lovely fairies,—Imagination and Romance?
               The lips are parted in a half-smile; the brow knows no care or shadow. Entangled vines guard the entrance to the heart; no bold intruder may assert his claim to the prize.
               Behold!
               At last, a step presses the green sward. The bushes part, the shrubbery falls asunder.
               
               The stranger gazes enraptured upon his enchanted princess, and touches her lips with his own. It is the kiss of Love. With a start, with a blush, life flows into her veins. She awakens from dream-land to welcome him who shall be unto her a lord among lords, a prince above princes.
               Even so in our prosaic world, I should conjecture, are the hearts of our maidens quickened into vitality!
               The story of the pearls and reptiles repeats itself day after day. When I hear a kindly word, there gleams before me a white pearl, or the flash of a diamond perhaps; instinctively I am bound to compare with the speaker's soul those dazzling gems; a radiance lights up such a face with sheen of glory.
               And have not we giants in our midst?
               You will not know them by their stature, or their seven-league boots. They do not even brandish a club, unless it have dwindled down during these days of style and fashion into a dainty cane. But you will detect that they are sluggish and dishonest in business, money-loving and grasping in their bargains, brutes and tyrants in their homes.
               Giant-killers, sometimes, are the little children who encircle the gruff neck with their arms: affection may conquer vice! At other times, sickness and trouble, like a legion of boy-heroes, troop fast upon him; but, alas! too often it is Death alone that is equal to the task of battling with the giant, and showering peace upon the household by screwing the coffin-lid closely down upon him.
               Many a lesson have I gleaned from those tales told in the summer woods; lessons that will pursue me through life, and that lie enfolded in memory—an endless El Dorado to be revelled in at pleasure.
               I wonder if other feet have trodden the little green path along which we used to ramble?—and if the brook still gurgles on its course; or if its waters, dried by the noonday heat, have sunk below the ground, as many of our hopes, scorched by the noonday of life, lie buried some fathoms deep?
               No doubt the light still trembles over the valley, the hills are mellow with a purple haze, and the shepherds call to their flocks.
               But the children who were clustered on the grass! They are little people no more; and though it is true that men are only boys grown tall, still I ween it were worth ten years of life to recall the simplicity, the freshness of childhood.
               To come back to Buddington Court, however.
               Those hours before noon were whirled away in various fashions. A croquet-party was formed on the lawn. A bevy of gentlemen were discussing the subject of a hunting expedition that was to be entered upon in a day or two.
               In the midst of the din, the postman's horn was heard merrily sounding at the lodge; with the advent of letters, silence fell upon them all for an interval.
               Then, Sir Edgar in vain essayed to start a rubber of whist; failing, fell remorselessly upon a detachment of people who were assembled together to rest quietly, no doubt, from the labors of the previous evening.
               "What have you there, Miss Willoughby?" he said, with startling vehemence, seating himself beside her.
               "Aha," adjusting his glasses. "Locke, eh! Now, I object to young women reading Locke. It unfits them, totally unfits them, for their proper duties in the domestic line. They should keep to their pretty accomplishments, you know: music, and flowers, and light tol-de-rols. A man of my experience in the world is capable of advising; but in your case, young lady, possibly I'm too late. You've gone too far in learning already. Check up, I say, though. There's time yet; check up on Locke, for a start."
               "And what shall I read, Sir Edgar, to repay me for his loss?"
               "Light literature, by all means! There's Miss Dacre cutting the pages of a new novel; delightful, delightful! The smell of printer's ink is positively refreshing. If anything is abominable to me, my dear miss, it's the sight of a musty volume in a lady's hand. Now, I'll warrant Miss Dacre comprehends the facts of the case to perfection.
               "What style of reading do you prefer?" (addressing the latter).
               
               She blushed and hesitated, then said in modest confusion,—
               "To be candid, Sir Edgar, I don't care for anything but novels; and I'm ashamed to confess that I always skip the philosophy parts."
               "That's a true woman," exclaimed he, crossing over to her. "Miss Willoughby, pardon me for deserting the ranks, but you're more than a match for us men. Now, what I say is, give me one of you with your little, foolish, womanly ways, your ignorance of all the technical laws of being, your—ahem—your incalculable defects in the monstrosities of education.
               "Aha, you comprehend, I presume?"
               Mr. Dacre then took up the thread of argument.
               He first glanced around the apartment in solemnity; his voice, as it broke the stillness, and moved on slowly and pompously, sounded ominous:
               "You advocate a false doctrine, Sir Edgar, I think. The female, sir, is a creature of brain; yes, sir, I repeat, a creature of brain who, if guided aright, may soar upward to the very empyrean. She is not a species of the ephemerides, content to dip ever in a murky pool, but may bear herself with glory on the wing. The annals of all ages reveal this. Go back, sir, into the first book of Genesis, and you will find your theory utterly disproved——"
               "No more of that, I beg,—no more of Genesis, or the Acts, or the Corinthians," interrupted Sir Edgar, in a rage. "By Heavens, I hear so much of those ancient parties, you'll excuse me for not desiring their further acquaintance."
               "What were you saying, brother?" said Mrs. Hightower, just then entering. "I heard the word 'Corinthians,' if I mistake not. You were alluding to them, probably; and very right, very right indeed!"
               "Madam," ejaculated Mr. Dacre, turning his dull visage her way. "Madam! We were merely discussing the analogy of brain in the female to that of the male. Is it not your opinion that she should penetrate into all the mysteries of science, both natural and philosophical,—that she should investigate thoroughly the laws of our governing ing forces, and hearken to things of deeper import than the mere outward adornment of that smooth, white animal, herself?"
               "I hope," remarked Mrs. Algernon, by way of precedent,—"I hope Sir Edgar does not maintain views thus averse to the happiness of women in her home. No, Mr. Dacre. We educate our daughters, sir" (drawing her form to its wonted dignity), "we educate our daughters up to a certain point, but allow them to proceed no further in the pursuit of knowledge. If you would fill the earth with weak, nervous, delicate women, then you might encourage this expansion of brain. But I regard it as a direct flying in the face of Providence, sir. I would by no means tamper with his good gifts, by abusing health and youth in so gross a manner. I, as a mother, sir" (fixing the audience with glance of proud, maternal devotion), "have a duty to perform to society, and I flatter myself, Mr. Dacre, that at least I have endeavored to earn my reward."
               Lady Buddington was sitting beside a window, with her arm resting on the sill. She seemed very weak and pale, and at the conclusion of Mrs. Algernon's harangue fell languidly back in her chair.
               Mildmay went over to her, drew up an ottoman at her feet, and said, "Can I do anything for you, my lady?"
               She opened her eyes.
               "Oh, is it you? Thank you, no."
               "How you have changed!" I heard him say.
               "Oh, yes. I'm a deal older, and not near so strong. But you. I've thought of you often; don't you remember?"
               "What?"
               "How you used to read 'Manfred' to Maud and me! Those were such happy days; don't you think so? You would lie on the grass, or stretch yourself on the beach at her feet. It was—very pleasant there."
               "Did you like it?"
               "Oh, yes. I was never much at books myself, but I was fond of hearing you read. You were good at that. Do you ever now?"
               "What, read? Never!"
               "By George, Sir Edgar," exclaimed Ensign Willoughby, "let's have done with literature and learning for a moment. I appeal to the crowd as proof that we are all yawning and struggling to get off those topics. I'm for ten-pins or billiards. Believe I'll go and knock up their croquet. Miss Isabel is splendid at bowling!"
               He offered his arm to Miss Dacre, and after some disclaiming and disputing, the party en masse strayed off to the lawn, from whence there soon came sounds of loud and boisterous laughter.
               Mildmay and Lady Buddington were left the sole occupants of the room. For I, weary of standing, or sitting, or thinking, had, in a feeling of desperation, wandered on to the picture-gallery, to con over the same old portraits, and the same old landscape scenes, that I knew quite by heart. Finding no solace in that, turned to the library; had expected to see the place empty; but was greeted by a vision of Miss Vairin, standing beneath a crayon sketch of Fidelity, with her head leaning against the wall.
               "Are you come here for a little quiet?" I asked.
               "I could find that nowhere," said she, without moving.
               "You're a strange girl. What is the matter with you now?"
               "There's a deal the matter with me, Mr. Brent! I've come here to try and think over what I must do. Will you go, and let me have my thoughts out?"
               "But perhaps I can help you; will you not let me? If you would only trust me, Miss Vairin! If you would put faith in the future, and believe that things are taking a new course."
               "I do not want to discuss that subject with you, sir," she returned, haughtily. Then, clasping her hands, continued,—
               "If the time ever comes that Bertie is righted, it will be no thanks to you, I am happy to say."
               "Simple child; why do you trust so to your own strength? Have you a surplus amount of vanity to teach you the unwary lesson?"
               Her lips quivered slightly, and she gave a little stamp of vexation. Then lifting her head, the rich color flew over her face, as she cried out,—
               "I know you despise me, sir. But, for all that, I will not hear you name over my faults of temper or disposition. I will not hear you, I say; the very sound of your voice puts me in a rage, so you had better go!"
               I walked over to her slowly; standing there, looked down on her with so outward a calmness and quietude of manner that her flashing eyes fell, and she was forced to retreat to the wall. She scarcely moved afterwards, but the expression of her countenance did not vary.
               There is an excess of tenderness shown to brutes among Oriental nations. In Syria, they say, a man's beast becomes a part of his household, and is cherished with every mark of affection. Pigeons receive food from the mosques. A Turk will rather cross the street than rouse a dog napping in the shade. The Arabian seeks easy modes of killing beasts and fish for food. In Stamboul, the man who kicks a dog may be set down for a Frank; a native would scorn such action.
               In civilized countries, how far different! We Christians are harshest to those we love best. We crush them with the bitterness of words. If we kill their affection or joy, it is at a blow, and with no endeavor to discover a painless method that will put things so fragile to the death.
               It was at that moment, I think, that we heard a sort of low cry from outside, and then a rush of hasty footsteps. There was a noise, as of feet moving into the hall; the Court seemed suddenly to be thrown into a state of unwonted confusion.
               Fay started in terrible excitement.
               "Oh, what is it? Has it come at last?"
               She was trembling, and instinctively put out her hands to me for help.
               "What do you mean?" cried I. "What do you dread?" And held her passionately by the two little nervous hands, clutching them tightly in my own.
               But well I knew what was awaiting her! Well I knew the cause of that cry, and those shuffling feet! No other word was spoken just then; but from that moment I felt her going from me, as surely as if the waters of death were closing around her.
               "He—your lover—he has come! Do you hear?" I said, with a groan. "Fay—my darling, for the last time—" There I broke down in one horrible convulsion sion of thought, in one exceeding throe of anguish, during which that vision of the two fired my brain.
               It seemed as if I understood then the desolation of a lost eternity. Yet I spoke those words with her hands in mine, her eyes on mine, and felt that they were saying to me through all their new-found joy, "How sorry I am for you! Forgive me now for my harshness."
               I dropped the fluttering fingers, and she started forward, not observing that some one was coming in at the open door.
               I knew him on the instant. It was Herbert Chester.
               But I was wholly unprepared for the shock that came upon me when Fay, darting towards him, fell upon his breast, sobbing, "Brother! my brother Bertie'!"
               "Look up, Hope," he exclaimed. "Little sister, I am free now! I am cleared of all, and am come back to you in triumph."
               She could only sob, though, and hide her face on his bosom.
               What did it all mean? Her brother! Had not Martin Cross, had not every circumstance, led me to believe him her lover? I felt as a man in a dream, not comprehending the startling revelation thus contained in those words; walked the room in a vain endeavor to stifle the thoughts that would rise in dim delirium. But to no purpose.
               "Mr. Brent," said the young fellow, coming up to me and extending his hand, "you are no stranger to me, sir, and I want to offer an explanation of my presence here. But first, let me give you heartfelt thanks for the service you've rendered me. If it were not for you, sir, I should not be here in England with character bright as that shining sun outside!"
               "How is this?" exclaimed Miss Vairin, stammeringly. "They told me—I—I believed——"
               "What?"
               "That—that—but I cannot tell you. Mr. Brent, I believed you my brother's enemy!"
               "You credited this?" asked I.
               "Yes," replied she, hanging her head, and blushing.
               "Did I not beseech your trust, silly Fay, and you would not bestow it?"
               "Forgive her, sir, for my sake," laughed young Chester.
               Forgive her!
               For but an instant my gaze wandered over cheek, brow, and lip. Could a man have done aught than love the features where drifts of snow made harmony with the coral ripeness of lips?
               She turned aside. I noticed that her eyes never met mine without a tremor, and that she appeared to shrink from my notice, as if endeavoring to combat the old dislike which was powerful in her nature against me.
               "To understand thoroughly," I asked, "solve for me, Miss Vairin, this mystery attached to your name?"
               "My father, sir, is named Herbert Vairin Chester. You remember the portrait at the abbey, do you not?"
               "I do, indeed."
               "Things have come about miraculously," exclaimed young Chester. "When I sailed from Calcutta, the hope was strong in me that something would turn up, but I little dreamed it would be so soon.
               "Some months back, when I left England, it was with the thought of returning to my regiment. As luck would have it, though, I first went over for a sight of the Continent; knocked around there for a time, until, just as I was leaving, met with our cousin Lord Chester, who was on his way post-haste to London. Our rencontre was very fortunate. He revealed the facts of the case immediately to me, and here we are. Martin Doyle, or whatever name he goes by, is at Newgate."
               "Newgate! I did not know they had traced him."
               "Yes; they stumbled upon him ill at an out-of-the-way tavern. He looks bad. Chester and I saw him two days ago; then took the first train for a visit here. Indeed, Mr. Brent, I could not rest until I had seen and spoken with you as my prime benefactor over and above all."
               It had all come about singularly enough. At first I could not collect my wandering thoughts sufficiently to grasp the pith of the story. It seemed so unreal, so dissimilar from the visions that had filled me with vague unrest. It was as if I had been hovering upon the brink of black desolation; a rush of hopes and dreams rising to take the place of those suggestions which, no later than one hour before, had threatened to press me down into the chasm.
               I cannot remember how chaos finally shaped itself into order; how, at last, I was made to realize the truth of destiny versus circumstance. Neither can I remember what words passed between the Chesters and myself during the momentous interview that was brought about later in the day.
               We discussed the preliminaries of all steps to be taken, arranged matters so that an immediate departure from Buddington was necessary, and finally separated to make ready for an early flight on the morning train. It was settled that, arriving at L——, I should go on to the abbey alone for an interview with Mr. Vairin; then, unfolding cautiously the intelligence of his son's presence and welfare, should gradually lead him to expect an immediate reunion. I almost feared to take the task in hand, but, with an unutterable trust in God's goodness, pledged myself as ready and willing to do my part with sincere fervor.
               When the morrow came, the traveling-party were in readiness. Mildmay, alone, of the number, hung back. He had concluded to remain a week longer, he said; informing me sotto voce that of all "infernally dull" places though the Court was, he could not quite make up his mind to be bored to death on "those confounded moors." Maud Buddington accompanied us, much to my chagrin. I quite disapproved of her course, in a mental soliloquy, and would have preferred leaving her behind.
               "Are you still happy?" asked I of Fay, as the train shrieked and scampered off with us.
               She was untying a knot in her hat-ribbon, and when the gray eyes looked up into mine a glad light broke into their beautiful listlessness. She nodded her head, and said, "Can you ask? It is a new feeling, but I think I may call it happiness."
               Poor Fay! with your golden head, rare lips, and gayety of heart, what indeed had the future for you?—that grim future with its shut-up mystery and weird whisperings of defiance. How it mocks and lures with false benediction! In earlier days, I ween, you were wont to tread the earth decked in all the gladness of the native Fay-spirit—seeking ing a treasure of joy beneath every blade of grass—marveling at that shining fleece which the moonbeams cast upon our mortal dwelling-spots.
               What, indeed, hath the future for us all?
               Is it not like a fairy godmother advancing towards her children with brow of majesty? Perhaps gifts are closed over for us in that tightly-folded hand; who knows? She may have a crown of roses for this one—a wreath of thorns for that; bitter tears for another; sunbeams and laughter for the household favorite.
               Godmother with the fair woman's brow, be gentle. We plead thee, a gift from bonnie faerie-land! Loose thy clasp, and shower us o'er with the goodly dower. If it come in a glitter of joy, we call thee sweet and wondrous kind.
               Godmother, what gift do ye bring us from that far-away, unknown realm?
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               MISS BRENT WRITES.
               
                  
                     
                        "O hearts that break and give no sign,
                        Save whitening lip and faded tresses,
                        Till death pours out his cordial wine,
                        Slow dropped from misery's crushing presses,
                        If singing breath or echoing chord
                        To every hidden pang were given,
                        What endless melodies were poured,
                        As sad as earth, as sweet as heaven!
                     
                     
                        "We count the broken lyres that rest
                        Where the sweet wailing singers slumber;
                        But o'er their silent sisters' breast
                        The wild flowers who will stoop to number?
                        A few may touch the magic string,
                        And noisy fame be proud to win them:
                        Alas for those that never sing,
                        But die with all their music in them!"
                     
                  
               
               "WELL, Lucy, I have strange news for you."
               Wildmoor again! And my strong, brave-hearted Geoffrey was all in a tremor when, saying that, he beckoned me into his study. I sat down at his knee on one side of the carved mantel, and laid my hand on his.
               "What is it, dear?"
               We had started from Buddington Court on the morning train, and had arrived at L—— station about three in the afternoon.
               There, leaving Nell, Maud, and myself to be driven home by Thomas, the coachman, Geoffrey had gone on to the abbey for that momentous interview with Mr. Vairin. In the mean time Hope and her newly-found brother were awaiting the issue of events at our rector's house in the village.
               It was not until eleven o'clock that night that Geoffrey returned from his mission.
               The others were gone to bed; but I was up waiting, and when the clatter of Raven's hoofs came from the avenue and a house-dog barked joyously, I went out into the hall and opened the door.
               My brother ran up the steps. He drew me into his arms and kissed me as is his wont; then I looked into his noble, rugged face, reading there that much had been accomplished. No need for further doubt.
               "Mr. Vairin knows all?" I said.
               "Yes."
               "And how did he bear the shock?"
               "Badly, Lucy, very badly. Gently and carefully as I managed to reveal it, he fell from his chair upon the floor, and for several minutes I never thought to see him open his eyes again. He is in bed now, a feeble old man; but with the comfort of having his children with him, and knowing that the story of their past is one of shame no longer."
               I looked questioningly into his face, that was all glowing with enthusiasm.
               "And Hope! What does she not owe to you? She will not need to show you her pride any longer. Ah, Geoffrey, your chance, your triumph has come now."
               But he flushed crimson, and grew stern in a moment. Laying his hand on my head, he said, proudly,—
               "No, Lucy; that, too, is a folly of the past. She shrinks from me now as she never shrank before. Besides, do you think I would be such a craven as to urge a suit which from mere pity she might be inclined to look upon kindly? Never! You may trust me. Miss Vairin, try as she may, will never be brought to like me. Why it is I cannot ascertain. But you may be sure I will never ask for her love!"
               "Ah! I'll not trust you," I answered, smiling, and got up to bring him a cup of tea and a slice of bread, while he narrated all that had transpired in the abbey.
               At first Mr. Vairin would not listen to anything my brother had to say upon the subject; he grew very indignant, reproaching him bitterly for dragging up a matter so prolific of pain. But when reason assumed control, and he heard the details of the legal proceedings, and knew that Herbert Chester was within call, the revelation of joy proved too harrowing. The tension of his nerves relaxed, and then, when he revived from that swoon, it was to plead and call loudly for the son whom, a few hours since, he would have driven from his side with curses.
               Geoffrey sent a messenger to the village to summon home Bertie and Hope. They came. The former went in all alone to meet his father, but for awhile the girl stood out in the dark garden shivering as if with cold.
               She stood with the shine of the stars upon her head, perhaps thinking that the light which had burned so cheerlessly down upon her for long years was now changed into a lustre of gladness. And then, when she crept in on tiptoe, it was to kneel beside the sick man's bed and say, with voice choked in tears,—
               "Papa, it is I! Have you no love for me, too, papa?"
               Geoffrey left the room, in a measure awed by that out rushing of an emotion which the stern old man was powerless to stay. So long had the tide of feeling been frozen, that when the flood-gates were at last opened that pent-up affection forced its way tumultuously into view.
               Hope—poor, brave Hope—raised no cry that her father should meet her embraces with somewhat of his former stoicism. He was tender over her, true; but it was to his son that he yearned for solace. His proud heart had broken when its stay had been wrenched aside; but now those wounds and bruises were being healed by the touch he had been wont to rave for in the delirium of solitary moments.
               And he was content.
               Through the long nights that followed, when the girl flitted like a shadow around the room, pale to very ghastliness, in dread that he would die, scarcely a smile hovered on his lips for her; scarcely a meagre kiss went upward to greet her,—so scant was the stock of thought he snatched for others from that vast store bestowed upon Bertie.
               There was a swarm of tears in my eyes when I saw for the first her poor trembling figure.
               Dear, beautiful Hope! No wonder Walter had loved her. And no wonder our elder brother, with his fine, manly perception of the true and noble, should have held her first among women. It was not her beauty alone that drew us all to her, and that made her name and her sweet face a bonny sight and sound to the haymakers, the laborers, and the peasants around. It was for the truth, the earnestness, and the purity of soul shining out in her eyes and upon her brow that we loved her. Why, there was not a clodhopper nor a milkmaid in all the village who would not have trudged weary miles to serve Hope Vairin. God bless her!
               Those were saddening days; but there is a vision of one that often rises up to crush me deep in woe.
               It comes when nights are lonely, when it is late, and I am sitting by my fire in solitude (as I always have to sit then). When the blasts are howling outside, and circling up and down the avenue, that vision causes me a shudder; for it brings a picture of a sea wild with storm, and a vessel that is going down to destruction with a crew of strong men, and a fair, queenly-faced woman, whose seeking arms are to be ever empty.
               It was a pale, cloudy morning, I remember well, that I asked my cousin Maud to accompany me on a walk.
               A mile or so beyond our village there was a cluster of fishermen's cottages; pretty, whitewashed cottages they were, with gardens attached, and troops of children with shining, curly heads to play about them. Old Margery lay sick in one.
               She was a friend of my childhood, this Margery; many an hour she has sat me upon her knee, while I heard her marvelous tales of the wreckers, the sailors, and the many brave men who had pulled away in fishing-boats to draw up the wonders of the deep. At the time I write, she was a withered old woman, with the memory of a husband lost at sea to sadden her, and with a terror lying at her heart by day and night for her son,—the sailor-lad who was the boldest and the bravest fisherman among them.
               The morning was pale and stormy when I started with Maud on a visit to old Margery.
               We were careful to provide ourselves with wraps, for the wind was rising and howling in wrath, and a rainstorm seemed imminent. I did not think, though, it would be other than a summer shower, so we walked briskly forward, enjoying the keen edge of the blast.
               Geoffrey was in London. The Chester trial was there being agitated; as was anticipated, he had been subpœnaed as a witness, and, together with Bertie Chester, had started for town a week previous.
               My cousin Maud was a picture to look at on that cloudy morning. Her mouth lay in sweet, crimson curves, and there was a light in her eyes, softened somewhat, and that resembled the sheen of stars when they look through a mist on calm nights in summer. She wore a dress of muslin, with a knot of roses on her bosom, and a cluster of red-hearted buds peeping from under her broad straw hat. I thought her a bright and cheery dot on the landscape that revealed only the moorlands, the far-away village with its cluster of houses, and the sandy beach with sheer giant rocks, against which came the sea in anger, lashing their bases with low and sullen murmurs.
               A dog that was lying on the porch jumped up and wagged his tail at us as we knocked on the door, and from the bit of garden a red-haired little girl, who apparently enjoyed the manufacturing of mud pies, came bounding to meet me.
               Old Margery sat before a scant fire that crackled on the hearth. The day was damp and cool, though it was August.
               
               "Yo're over welcum, Miss Lucy," she said. "An' who's the purty young leddy with yo?"
               "This is my cousin, Miss Maud Buddington, Marge dame. She has her basket full of nice things for you. See?"
               "Ah, my dearie," she cried, shading her eyes with one hand as Maud went over to her, "yo're a bonnie lass. It do an old woman like me a power o' good to look at your purty young face. But sit down a bit, do."
               "I thought to find you in bed," I said.
               "So you had ought, Miss Lucy. I only got out just a bit o' while ago. Yo see I get tired o' the loneliness, an' 'Jem he frets an' worrits so with thinkin' me like to die, an' nobody to make his bite o' breakfast."
               "Is he at home?"
               "Oh, yes, dearie. It ud be a bad day out fur the boats, an' he just tuk this mornin' to mendin' a leak in the 'Fair Mollie.' Gracious sakes, how it blows!"
               Maud smiled at the name of the craft. Marge dame, detecting this, smiled in response while saying,—
               "Yo see, dearie, Mollie's Jem's sweetheart, an' a purtier or genteeler gal a sailor never found in port. She do me a power o' good with the gentle ways o' her. An' it'll be a happy, happy day fur me when I see my Jem an' Mollie goin' to be asked in church. But listen to the wind; it's like to tear down the house. God be praised the men are all at home!"
               I went to the strip of window. It was blowing hard. The clouds were all tossed about; some in banks were flying across the sky,—plunging, rearing, like stormy ships at sea; others breaking and forming into dense, black masses; then flashes of lightning came, and peals of thunder; soon, fierce gusts of rain were sweeping the earth in a frenzy of anger.
               "It is dreadful," I shuddered, and moved to the hearth to throw on some fagots. "It is dreadful! God help those at sea this day!" It was indeed such a tempest as had not raged for months.
               "Yo may well pray that, Miss Lucy; yo may well pray that." A tear trickled down the withered face of the old woman as it bowed into her hands.
               I crossed over to the window again.
               The roaring of the billows had become deafening. Waves of towering height thundered madly on the beach, lifting their crests of foam so high that it seemed as if the spray were dashed up into the sky above. Billow chased billow in to the rocks, rising and bellowing in white-headed wrath, and then rushed out again with howls and roars, as of a demon despoiled of his prey. As far out as my eye could reach, I saw only those inky waters fighting and struggling with the tempest. And there while a terror seized me, and the minutes sped on, a sound came across the boiling surf that smote us all with horror.
               Margery fell upon her knees and prayed aloud. Maud crouched low on the hearth, and hid her face.
               The sound came again. It was the boom of a signal-gun close at hand. Another and another was fired; then, silence. I saw a crowd collect on the beach, and through the darkness could distinguish that men were running hither and thither, and dragging ropes across the wet sand. While I watched, the hurry ceased, the ropes fell upon the beach, the men stopped short, and stood looking out to sea, with the rain beating down upon them, and the spray dashing them with its salt breath. It happened as if they saw it was hopeless.
               The sound came again across the water; a shout was raised when a figure broke in among them; it stood calmly in their midst for but a second, then the hurry was revived.
               I could look no more, when, sinking on my knees, and sobbing, the door was flung violently open, and two men rushed in.
               "Mother," called Jem, "I'm heer fur to say good-by. There's a ship struck on the rocks, an' me an' Captain Mildmay, this gentleman heer, an' the Fair Mollie are a goin' to do what we can. Tell the lass good-by for me, mother, an' say to her I send my best love!"
               "No, no," she shrieked, twining her arms about him; "my boy, my Jem; I cannot let yo go; no, no, no!"
               He lifted her in tenderness from the floor, and stood before her.
               "Mother, none of the men 'll go; not one of 'em. Would yo have the people die when theer's a chance to save 'em? heer at our door they be. My father 'd have gone, an' he'll not look down upon Jem an' say he's a coward."
               In this manner did he plead with her, until, giving one heart-broken gasp, she kissed him, laid her head upon his bosom, and said,—
               "Good-by, Jem; I have let yo go, dearie!"
               "Stay heer, sur," he called, as he went quickly out, "until I've got the Mollie reddy."
               Captain Mildmay was drenched with rain. The brown, wet masses of hair clung to his head; the water, pouring from his garments, was leaving puddles over the cottage floor. But he looked the proud, brave gentleman, as he strode over to Maud with an eagle-light flashing in his eyes, and a bearing thoroughly chivalrous ennobling his form.
               She still crouched on the hearth and hid her face. But at his touch, and at the sound of his voice, she sprang up with the old expression of pride creeping to her features.
               "Will you not grant me one little word of kindness, Maud? It may be we shall never meet again."
               "What then?" she asked, scornfully. "Do you think it would be a source of grievance to me?"
               "Don't," he said, faintly. "I have borne almost as much as I can bear from you, Maud; your harshness has broken my heart; did you know that?"
               He broke off with a hoarse laugh.
               "I'm not a good hand at sentiment, you understand. But it's rather hard that I should carry to my grave the sting and cruelty of your words."
               "It's your own fault. The sorrow of that past is a burden on your conscience, not on mine, sir."
               He drew in his breath sharply and shut his lips fast.
               "Well," he said, "it is all over now. I am going away, and our last meeting should bear somewhat of pleasantness. At least, let me take away with me the recollection of a bright face. Look up, Maud, look up, and smile; let me see your beauty all unclouded, just for once. O, Love, God knows that I have given you my all! Had it not been for that wild folly of my own in the years back, you would not have set yourself away from me,—higher above me than a white star. But I will crave your forgiveness now at the last, your pardon for loving you as I do. Let me hear you say, with your eyes on mine, and your hand holding my hand just as if you believed in me, let me hear you say that I have your forgiveness for my love."
               She was silent, but white and trembling.
               "Not one word for me? Well, good-by, Maud. Sweet, good, good-by! But before I go, give me one kiss."
               Thus ejaculating, he stooped, and, for one wild moment, laid his lips upon her mouth.
               Again came the boom of the gun.
               With one last, long, lingering gaze, he was gone. The banging of the door seemed to rouse the statue into life. Maud started; one hand was pressed to her heart; with a moan of pain she darted from the house, and stood outside with the rain driving down upon her, and called after the vanishing figure,—
               "My love, my love, come back!"
               But only the roaring of the waves, the blinding rain, and the shouting of men answered her.
               I do not think she has ever forgotten it.
               The sea shrieked and dashed madly against the shore. She might call, but the ears that would have been too eager to heed her slightest behest were dulled by the clashing of wind, and storm, and ocean.
               She came back into the room with her dress all wet and draggled; going up to the fire, she stood before it pale and shuddering visibly, and wrung the moisture from her long, fair hair.
               Another shout, fierce and prolonged, went up from outside.
               A boat with two figures barely discernible in it was braving the billows. It heaved aloft with the bubbles of foam, then became a mere speck, and then had vanished. The firing across the waters sank into a succession of low, faint reports. The moments were torturing in suspense. A throng of seamen were uncoiling ropes of cable that, doubtless, had been affixed to the boat, and that, at a given signal, perhaps, was to haul in the Fair Mollie, and cause her bending lips once more to meet the shore in joy.
               Suddenly a loud gun-shot rent the air.
               Another shout went up. The running hither and thither was revived, and the group of seamen commenced to pull the strong cable with bold and vigorous exertion.
               Over the hills of surf came tumbling the boat. It rose and fell; it pitched, sank, and tossed; and then the faithful ropes dragged it in.
               Three men sprang ashore when the keel grated the beach.
               But those two figures were still discernible, one at the prow, one at the stern, when again the Fair Mollie bounded off.
               Scarcely a half-hour had elapsed when the signal boomed once more over the sea. Fiercely still thundered the waves. The wind howled, roared, and shrieked, but the men worked with zeal, and the gallant cable coiled itself upon the beach until it drew in its burden,—a boat turned bottom upwards, empty of life and hope, empty of all save Death; bearing a vision of a childless old woman, and a girl whose proud, queenly face was doomed to turn gray in anguish.
               The men stood in groups. Some strained their eyes afar, some walked the beach, but all were watching and waiting.
               Ten minutes passed.
               No sound came from the wrecked vessel. No boom was fired from the signal-gun. There was a silence amid the roar of the ocean that portended the worst.
               When a half-hour had gone by, an old, white-headed fisherman came into the cottage.
               His eyes, his manner revealed to me his mission. And when he had told old Margery, she fell to crying, and rocking herself backward and forward in her chair.
               Maud did not once turn from the fire, but her hands fell to her side, and she was standing up before it as if changed to stone. When the old man had gone, she came forward, but was forced to cling to a chair for support. So much of the contour of her face as was visible came with a shock to me.
               It was white, rigidly white, looking old and haggard like a face that has added years to its silent woe.
               No moan escaped her lips; but tottering, staggering, she went over to Marge dame; she knelt at the old woman's feet, and, putting her arms about her, kissed the lips that were all scarred by age.
               "Mother," she whispered, "dear, dear mother, don't cry! I—I—shall never want to leave you now. Oh, mother, mother! My heart, too, is broken."
               And there on the floor she clung to the old, bereaved mother, and I saw her fair girlish head lying where poor Jem's had been wont to do, and heard her voice calling amid struggles to nerve itself,—
               "Oh, mother, don't cry!"
               After that first and only burst of grief, the girl became the statue again. The lines about the eyes and mouth were somewhat sharp and stern, but there was no faltering in the grand and stately carriage when we were safe once more in the drawing-room at Wildmoor. The following day was the Sabbath, and the sun rose bright and warm as if it were never to shine over the wreck and desolation the storm had made. Through the clear and crisp atmosphere came the soft notes of the bells pealing for morning service; but few of us could listen calmly to the grave-faced minister as he told the story of the gallant men whose souls had passed into the Land of the Leal while in the performance of a noble and heroic duty. The bells rang on sadly at intervals through the day; the winds wailed in dirges over the lonely moors. But no sight or sound touched me so as the vision of Maud Buddington's haggard face, or the noise of the footfalls that paced untiringly her room,—a dreary, lonely march.
               Love had been to her as a deadly viper, and through all her pride and relentlessness it had forced its poisoned fangs, and stung the bosom that had cherished it too well.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               MISS BRENT WRITES.
               THE sea never gave up its dead.
               Days after, when the storm had lulled, and the ocean was calm, they saw the dark hull of the vessel lying where she had struck.
               It was upon a circular reef of rocks a quarter of a mile from shore, which lie well between wind and water,—that is to say, they are covered at high tide, and only make their appearance above the surface at low water. Spars and pieces of timber were cast up upon the beach; and one morning the body of a boy was discovered drifting shorewards.
               They buried him, and over his head the wild flowers blossomed and died through season after season; yet not more closely did his grave shut in tidings of the others than did that jealous ocean.
               Old Margery was ill for weeks after. Through all her ravings and sufferings my cousin Maud never left her. Then my time was pretty well occupied with visits both to the cottage and to the abbey. A physician from town had been summoned to advise for Mr. Vairin. I suspected, however, that he entertained but feeble hope for his patient. He remained several days only, and, when about starting away, I asked if he would not come down again. The emphasis of his reply convinced me that my suspicions were well grounded.
               "It will not be necessary," he said, and drove off in his gig.
               Brave little Hope!
               I knew her heart was upon her lips at the least sigh or groan from her father; yet she quelled down her terror, meeting him always with a smile and a tone of hearty joy that made my eyes swim to see and grieve over.
               What is it in the element of nature that mocks us in our dreams and hopes of a gladness on the way?
               The September days glided in, calm and purpling with the haze of autumn-time. There was a pomp in the woods, and on the moors where the gorse and bilberries were red and golden; but gaze ahead as some of us then may have done, I doubt if the leaves scattered on the ground, or the moor-flowers falling into decay, did not hold up their fingers in warning as proof of the instability of things on earth.
               To be sure, there is a dross on the gold, and a flaw in the lily, but who, for that, will shun either lily or gold?
               Ah, falling leaves and perishing flowers, I fear your lesson was taught in vain!
               It was for three weeks that we did not see either Geoffrey or the Chesters. But when the issue of the trial was revealed, they came back to us in triumph. Bertie had been proven innocent of that dreadful crime, and the guilt of it confessed by Martin Cross.
               Nell and I,—we indeed shuddered at the mere thought of having been brought in proximity so close to a murderer.
               Ah, the poor fellow! I remember the story he narrated on the platform of L—— station, and how sorry I was for him then.
               That night in April brought Walter home to us, too, and Hope and Mr. Vairin to Stanley Abbey.
               I remember it was a fair night, with the moon shining so clear that we could see afar over the country, and caught glimpses of farmsteads, clumps of trees, and glints of pools. It was a night of fairness, but there came in its track much of woe, death, and sorrow. It is well we cannot link the present with the future, for I fear a notch here or there in the distance would cause us to sunder the chain at once, in horror of Destiny that seems to be fastening us with eye grim and unrelenting.
               The girl Martha or Patty Doyle was discovered in hiding upon the outskirts of a little hamlet. She was straightway summoned to appear as a witness at the trial of her brother; there the whole sad story of her shattered youth was revealed.
               
               Poor, foolish Patty!
               She, an humble country girl, had dared to lift her eyes in love to the dashing young gentleman who had been wont to ride past her kinsman's cottage and talk to her over the garden fence; who had been wont to help her over the stile and beg for a kiss in the hawthorn lane; who, as is the custom of young gentlemen, had been wont to make gallant speeches to her, and these she treasured up among her store of sweet memories.
               That was not the end thereof.
               When, he fell sick in the little roadside dwelling, and she nursed him tenderly back to life, it became her mission to dispel the mists of crime that were gathering over him.
               And at the sacrifice of her own pure character, perhaps, she did dispel them.
               But while advancing her testimony in the crowded court-room, what was her horror to behold a wild, excited face leering at her from among the throng of men!
               It was the face of Lord Chester's most deadly enemy,—her brother, whom she believed to be thousands of miles away from England; a man whom she had heard swear to avenge the wrongs pressed upon him, and who had heaped foul curses upon the head of that murdered nobleman.
               The truth flashed upon her instantaneously.
               It was he—her brother—who had perpetrated the deed; at any cost, she must save him!
               So intense was the terror excited in her mind that she swooned; in consequence, the proceedings of the trial were terminated for that day.
               Afterwards came the meeting between brother and sister; the blow that felled her to the floor; then, the questioning of the attorney in reference to the unknown man who had assaulted her; her description of his features as totally dissimilar to those of Martin Cross; finally, after much unsatisfactory evidence, the acquittal of Herbert Chester with the shadow of guilt to hover over him still.
               So, poor, simple Patty was to suffer the penalty of the law for a committal of the crime of perjury. She was transported,—her term of banishment limited to two years. Upon the expiration of the time, not a trace of the girl could be discovered; nor did we ever afterwards learn aught of her fate.
               Martin Cross was to have been executed, but Death robbed Justice of his victim. He died in his cell at New-gate, a day or two after they led him from the dock back to prison, and lies in a felon's grave.
               Alas! the imprecations that rose on his lips against the bad, rich man who goaded him to desperation were planted there by poverty, and hard, bitter woe. His life was dark, but might it not have been otherwise?
               God help the poor whose lot it is to slay, lie, and plunder, and to whom the preachers come with their idle sophistry in the day that is red with sin, when to repent seems synonymous with bowing the neck to the publican's grinding heel!
               Poacher Bill caused no more tumult in Westmorland. Whether he abandoned our section of country, or whether he died, remains an unsolved problem. The landholders and gentry were heartily rejoiced at his disappearance, and from henceforth the game in our parks roamed at will, sniffing the breeze in freedom as if in their own wild forests.
               A week or so after the day that brought Geoffrey home to us, I drove with him over to Briarly Manor. There rested an air of desolation upon the old mansion; the children still crept from room to room on tiptoe, looking with shy, frightened faces at their mother's black garments, and wondering, with their vague, childish curiosity, why it was that Uncle Harry would never come home any more.
               We found Mrs. Dashwood and Lady Ada in the drawing-room, paying their visits of condolence. The latter smiled, touched my finger-tips very graciously, and blushed like any peony when Geoffrey sat down beside her. She had robed herself in silk, and soft laces gleamed on her throat and arms. Though I have always gazed admiringly on her large, statuesque beauty, and listened to her voice that purled pleasantly along, I could never bring it into my heart to find any liking for her. It is unchristianlike, certainly, yet God forgive me; I have tried hard and long to overcome this antipathy of mine.
               
               Perhaps years ago it took form and rose to the surface when my brother thought of her as the woman destined to rule his life, yet who repaid his loyalty by the treachery which, in after-time, he came to regard as a blessing wafted from the hands of God. However, it always caused me a pang when I would see those two side by side, and would detect that she—the wily woman—was employing all the artifices and pretty, feminine affectations for the revival of that old sentiment unto which, in time back, her own hand had dealt the death-blow.
               "This is very sad about Captain Mildmay," she ventured, when the two matrons, bent upon some housewifely exploit, left us three together.
               "Very sad," I echoed.
               "And I am sorry for poor Miss Vairin."
               "Why do you say 'poor Miss Vairin'?" I asked, a little sharply.
               "Because she was so fond of him, you know."
               "Not any more so than was I," I answered, with asperity.
               "Oh, yes," said my lady; "Horton tells me that she has it from old Janet that when they brought the news of his death to her, she turned as white as a sheet, and fainted dead away. Oh, yes," she repeated, with an assumption of wisdom about her; "she was very fond of him, and I dare say she will quite break her heart,—the poor, dear little thing."
               I glanced hurriedly at my brother in alarm. He had turned to look out of the window, but I could see that he bit his lip in anger, and that his face had grown red.
               If this fair lady should glide in between them, and spoil the romance which then my mind was conjuring up, I should indeed have been thoroughly vexed. I wanted that little favorite of mine for Geoffrey. It was for this that I went on my knees night and morning, and prayed "Our Father" to turn her heart towards him, and send her to him in the richness of a new and beautiful trust.
               "Horton is quite mistaken," I returned, ignoring her wisdom at a breath. "Hope heard nothing of the accident until I myself informed her of it; and though I'll not deny that she turned pale, I am bound to affirm that she did not scream, or cry, or faint. She was a good friend of that brave and noble man, and certainly was much grieved to learn of his sad fate."
               Geoffrey regarded me with a smile. He understood me, this great, strong brother of mine. We had no need of lengthy speech to comprehend each other; we loved each other so dearly, and clung each to each so closely,—Geoffrey and I.
               On our way home, we stopped at the abbey. Hope took me into the library while the gentlemen were with Mr. Vairin. I could not help remarking how changed the girl had become. There was a nervous shadow in her eyes, though a radiance was strongest in them above all their fear, when she came across to where I sat, kneeling on the rug at my feet.
               "Miss Lucy," she said, grasping my hands tightly in hers, "I want to tell you something; only——"
               She stopped there, flushing scarlet.
               "Only what, dear? You are not afraid to tell me anything?"
               Then she drew my hands across her eyes, and faltered,—
               "I have committed a great error, dear Miss Lucy! In both thought and word I have wronged a good and noble man, because it seemed he was about to do my brother a terrible injury. Can you guess whom I mean?"
               "I can guess, dear Hope."
               "Now I know my mistake; but I can never bear to come in his sight again, so mean he must think me.
               "What I want to ask you is this:
               "Will you tell him for me that I am sorry for every unkind thought and every harsh word of mine, and that I beg his forgiveness? Ask him to-day for it, Miss Lucy, and bring me his answer soon, because I shall have to go away after,—oh, after my papa dies."
               She cried for a long time, but when she brushed aside the tears, and, looking up at me, repeated, "You will tell him for me, Miss Lucy?" I could not refrain from smiling at the earnestness of her question.
               I took the pretty face, and framed it in both my hands; gazing long and cruelly at the loveliness meeting me from those sad eyes, I thought I read there their secret.
               
               "Do you really care for his forgiveness, Hope?"
               "I would not humble myself to ask it if I did not, Miss Lucy."
               She blushed hotly saying this, and her eyes fell before the searching eagerness of mine.
               "Very well," I answered, "I will do as you wish." We were standing up before the window then.
               There was a brightness over the earth that morning. The meadows lay rich and brown afar off, the moorlands were gold and purple under the sheen of the sun. But the head so near to me, with its treasure of brown hair, the cheeks that were all aflame, and the lips that quivered at a word, were the cheeriest and brightest of all, I thought.
               During the drive home, I was unusually grave and silent; so much so that Geoffrey remarked it, but I said nothing in response to his anxious queries, meaning to broach the subject at some more opportune moment.
               Indeed, I had gone back in my thoughts to the time when he held no place in his heart for any woman save me; and at rare moments, the consciousness that I was first there no longer smote me with a sharp, inward pain.
               It was pure selfishness that roused those musings, certainly, but I was only a lonely-hearted woman, with affection keenly alive for sympathy from others, and my brother was my stay.
               Losing him, I lost all; giving him up, I gave up all.
               When the chaise had turned into the park, we caught a glimpse of two figures strolling along the avenue; as it passed them, whom should I detect they were but Nell and Guy Buddington?
               The latter was talking very earnestly, and as my sister listened with averted face, I could conjecture what he had to converse about.
               Geoffrey laughed, and, touching up old Dobbin briskly, exclaimed,—
               "That young man wants to rob the parent-nest, Lucy. Are we going to let him carry off our bird?"
               He was scarcely prepared for the low cry I gave, nor, as I clung to him, for the words that escaped my lips,—
               "Oh, brother, brother, is this right, is this fair, that they should take you all away from me? I have lost my boy, and now I must see Nell turn away from the old home too!"
               "Why, Lucy," exclaimed he in surprise, "it grieves me to hear you say this. We shall have Walter home for the holidays, dear, and I am resolved Nell shall marry no one for two years to come. Besides, am not I to be always with you? we two will plod along, old man and old woman, for many years yet to come, I hope."
               As he helped me alight, the pressure of his hand was full of tenderness, but for all that I went up to my room, and indulged in a good, hearty fit of crying.
               Before luncheon, there came a tap on my door; a bright head peeped in, then a pair of arms was flung around my neck, and a coaxing voice whispered,—
               "Guy is waiting to see you in the library, Lucy. He just got down last night, and he has something to say to you, you know."
               "Yes, I know," sighed I. "I hope you will be happy, dear;" then went off into another fit of crying.
               Nell, throwing herself upon my lap, cried too, out of sheer sympathy, and there we were sobbing a long time like two silly children; and kissing each other, and weeping over each other, just as if we both were to be carried off without delay or parley.
               But I may be pardoned for thus grieving over my children.
               They were given to me to fondle and cherish, when the dreams of girlhood, falling away from things of earth, became a part of the other world. Who can tell of the reverence with which I took them into my heart as gifts from God! Who can tell of the prayers I have prayed beside their little white beds; of the sleepless nights I have sat with them when they were tossing in sickness; of the childish quarrels they have brought to me to set right!
               Ah, to the mother-heart that grieves with the little ones, and that joys with them too, it comes as no light task to relinquish them, when grown up, into another's keeping.
               And so, after an interview in the library with Geoffrey and me, Guy reluctantly announced himself content to abide in patience an interval of two years before he should come to claim our little one in marriage.
               
               That evening, it happened that my brother received a telegram from Scotland summoning him to the dying bedside of our kinsman there; so before nightfall, Nell and I were alone at Wildmoor.
               Mr. Vairin expired upon the day following. He passed from life quietly, with no struggle or visible pain, and as he requested that they bury him in our village churchyard, he lies beneath an elm-tree there, and, at his own desire, without even a marble slab to tell his name.
               So fell away from the ranks of life a strange, cold, mystic being, who brought no happiness to himself or to others; who bore ever the same pride of nature, and whose story, should it be told to others, would excite but meagre 'pity, for the reserve that enwrapped him in life went down into his grave, and lies buried with him there beneath the elms.
               A week had elapsed since the funeral.
               The day had come when Bertie and Hope were to go from the abbey and return to their old home of Chester Park in Surrey.
               Dear, faithful Hope! There were tears enough in her eyes at that time, but when I told of the circumstances deterring me from keeping my promise to her, she drew in her lips tightly, but the great, unshed drops sprang to her lids in disappointment.
               "Come to Wildmoor," I begged, "just for a little while before you leave us. You know he isn't come back, dear. If you come, it would not make the parting so hard for me."
               And so she promised.
               And so she came to us on that day; and the girl, in her dress of mourning, with the curls of brown, the face all lily-pale, and the eyes dark and lustrous, looked, indeed, the bright, beautiful little woman she was.
               Geoffrey had not returned. I saw that it was a relief to Hope to escape a meeting with him; but I could not help grumbling at adverse Fate, that she was endeavoring to thwart my notion about the little romance I had woven.
               While we sat in the morning-room, whose windows sloped to the south, I thought there came a sound of wheels,—faintly at first, then grating on the gravel.
               Going out to satisfy my curiosity, I was met in the hall by a great, bearded man, who caught me in his arms and kissed me.
               "Geoffrey!" said I, breathlessly, "Providence has sent you!"
               "Aided somewhat by my own exertions," he laughed.
               Then he asked, hurriedly,—
               "Has Miss Vairin left the abbey yet?"
               I clapped my hands in delight.
               "You old bear," I told him, "she is here, in this very house, and in that very room yonder. Now, please listen, and be very obedient:
               "She has something to say to you, sir, and you are to wait here a moment, while I apprise her of your arrival; and then you are to go in, and ask her what that something is."
               He clutched my arm.
               "Lucy, what can she have to say to me?"
               But I slipped away, leaving him standing in the bright hall, where danced the sunlight, to paint fancies and visions that dazzled him with their lustre.
               "Hope," entreated I, going up to her, "there's a way of fulfilling my promise to you now. But I want you to see my brother, dear, and tell him all, your own self. He is here, just arrived; may I not send him to you?"
               "He is here?" she repeated, as if in a dream; then, with cheeks all glowing, said suddenly, "I must see him once; oh, yes, and hear him say with his own voice that he forgives me. Dear Miss Lucy, tell him to come and pardon me!"
               What transpired in that morning-room whose windows opened to the south, I discovered afterwards.
               When Geoffrey went in, Hope was standing before the casement; but at the sound of his footsteps she started, with cheeks all pale, and, coming quickly up to him, said,—
               "Don't look at me, sir; if you look at me I cannot speak for shame of what I have done; and before I go away from here forever, I must tell you how sorry I am for my past rude behavior. I must ask your forgiveness for my harsh judgment of you. Oh, sir, forgive me; don't despise me quite, for my punishment is harder than I can bear."
               
               She stopped there, but never raised her face to him.
               "What punishment?" he asked, excitedly.
               "The loss of your esteem, sir."
               "You have not lost it, foolish little Fay! I will try and forget your harshness to me; but, child, child, do you not know that my love for you renders forgetfulness impossible? Do you not know I would banish you from my memory if I could,—ay, every pretty look of yours, every sweet word and action? But you,—this love of mine is nothing to you! Is it, Fay? I will hear you tell me, yes or no,—whether it is nothing, or whether it shall be all, before I let you go."
               Saying this, with an impetuous impulse, he raised her face, and beheld it crimsoning before him; the eyes, too, gave one, swift, flashing up-look, and the whole wonderful story was revealed.
               "Have you love to give me at last? Fay, are you going to come into my heart, and let me keep you there forever?"
               She did not answer, for he had taken her to his arms, as he had never hoped all his life long to do, and she only hid her face on his bosom, and thanked God.
               "And so, Lucy," said my brother, in triumph, that evening, "Lord Ogre has at last made a capture of this poor little Fay! What shall be done with the rascal, hey?"
               There were no tears for that day. I gave my last, my best-beloved up without a struggle, teaching myself to look forward to years of calm maidenhood, when the hairs would be turning white and thick upon my head as leaves upon an autumn ground.
               They were all drifting from me; but I should still hold my place at their firesides, and have my corner in their heart of hearts. I understood that in their joys and triumphs another would wear the crown; but I knew well that in their time of sorrow and trouble sister Lucy could offer her kiss of comfort, just as she had done when they were a little, white-robed band, and had knelt at her feet for the morning and evening prayer.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               AFTER SOME YEARS. MISS BRENT WRITES.
               "LUCE, Luce, I say!"
               Up-stairs and down, through hall, porch, and chamber, three steps at a time, goes Walter in quest of me.
               I have not looked upon my boy for so long.
               The flowers have come and gone during three springs that we have not had him with us, and the old home has seemed blank and dull without the sound of his merry laughter. There is another Walter at Wildmoor, with waxen baby-fingers, and eyes like pansies in the woods. But the tears of sorrow have been wrung from me, year in, year out, because my heart would turn to the man Walter, whose baby head had nestled on my bosom so long ago; he had gone into the world, and been weaned from us; the hand of the tempter had led him into paths of sin, and I had lost my lad with his innocent, youthful ways.
               Alas, he had caught all the vices of the town; was breaking our hearts with the knowledge that it was his wont to frequent the gaming-table, bet largely on the favorites of the turf, and seemingly care naught for the remonstrances of his brother.
               But in response to my affectionate appeals, he has come to us at last; and when I hear him call just as he used to do, as if things were all unchanged,—"Luce, Luce,"—I forget the gap that has been raised between us, my love bridges it over, and I cross with arms outstretched, hold him to me, and he is our own, our very own, once more.
               He is changed now.
               The frank, boyish face is gone. The wavy brown hair is not so pretty as it was; he has a beard, and speaks with an air of curtness and braggadocio, and I could weep that the world has used him so hardly.
               
               "What are you sniffling about, Luce? Come," he said, crossing his legs, and leaning over the mantel, "if you've got me down here for a lecture, I'll turn around and go back directly. A fellow like me won't be lectured, I tell you."
               It hurt me for him to speak so.
               But I only looked up at him, conscious that the blood rose to my cheeks with the warmth of feeling; then in repentance he was down on his knees beside me, and, twining his arms about my neck, stammered out,—
               "Confound it, but I am a brute, and can't help it, Luce! Come, I didn't mean that, and if you go to cutting up any bobberies about it, I'll blow my brains out for a fact!"
               "Walter," I told him, "I have not asked you to come to hear me lecture you. I only want to have you with us; I only want to tell you that my love will never change for you. No matter what you are, no matter what you do, I want you to remember that you are always to come to me, and never, O Walter! never to shun me: As if I could close my heart to you under any circumstances! Did I ever scold you, dear?
               "No," and he hung his head in shame.
               "Then, will you not promise to trust me, and tell me whatever troubles you have in the future?"
               "I can't do that! I can't do it, Luce! It's no use, either; when a fellow like me gets on the high-road, he must have his fling out; by George he must!"
               "I wish you would get married, then," I said, mournfully.
               "That is always your panacea for human ills, Luce." He spoke in great earnestness. "Do you really believe a wife would be a help to a fellow,—a fellow like me, for instance? What would I do with a wife?"
               "Become a better man for her sake, Walter! Let her be proud of you as I am; let her love you as I love, and I can vouch that you would do very well, having a wife who thinks you the grandest fellow in the whole wide world."
               "Perhaps you are right! Now, there is a girl who would marry me, and I'm really fond of her, but the trouble is she won't name the day unless I promise to swear off from the races; and I'd as soon die an old bachelor as be out from the turf."
               I looked at him in sorrow.
               "If you don't think enough of her to make a sacrifice of that, Walter, it is ten times better she should die an old maid than live to become a broken-hearted wife."
               He smiled as if in contempt.
               "Women-folks are the oddest, I say. If you dare speak to them of a trotting-match, or a game of anything that men like, they fly off to broken hearts, and go to sniffling. Broken fiddlesticks!"
               Peals of laughter came gushing in from the open window, and down the stairs went a troop of children to their play.
               "Do come here," I called out, "and watch them. Aren't they beautiful?"
               "One, two, three, four! And to think those are Geoffrey's youngsters!" laughed Walter. "Of course they are beautiful!"
               "Have you seen the little mother yet?"
               "No,—how could I?"
               "There she is," I exclaimed, triumphantly, pointing downward to the lawn.
               And there she was indeed, in a simple white dress, with a tuft of heliotrope in her hair, stooping to caress the baby that lay in its nurse's arms.
               "She isn't near so pretty as she used to be," said Walter. "What a fine thing for me, Luce, that I didn't happen to strike Miss Vairin's fancy. She would have bored me dreadfully!"
               "She doesn't seem to have bored Geoffrey," I said, watching with pleasure a tall figure that, coming from the direction of the stables, crossed over to Hope, and stood beside her, talking playfully, and pinching her cheek.
               "Well, I dare say he is in luck, but you should just see my city beauty; beats her, by Jove!"
               The husband and wife standing bareheaded under the trees, with the summer sun shining down upon them!
               I wish I could paint a picture of the two.
               A sweet matronliness has spread itself over the features of my blushing little favorite of other days.
               Now, the curls of brown are laid in shining bands around her head; the eyes, though dark and lustrous still, have lost their vague mistiness, and seem to dream no longer. To my fancy they are not near so pretty as when they wore that dim, far-away look, and seemed to question one's very soul spite of all their shyness.
               But I dare say Geoffrey finds them more lovely than when they wore the beautiful timidity of the bride.
               He is a fond, foolish lord; though the years have silvered a thread or two of his hair, his features are not near so careworn, and the furrows upon his brow are no deeper than they were ten years back.
               God bless them both!
               There is no envy or pain in my heart now that my brother has set me aside for another woman, fairer and better than am I in many respects.
               A few of my hours are lonely ones, given up to weeping and bitter thought; but these are hours and times when the "In Memoriam" to my dead is too strong in expression for quietude; when the soughing of the wind, or the stirring of some long-born melody, awakes a chord that once vibrated to a dear, living touch.
               Then is my time of pain and sorrow; when, too, the vision of Walter rises to confront me, as it always does now,—boy no longer, but hard, callous man of the world.
               Nell and Guy are married.
               Some future day, Nell will be Lady Buddington. I scarcely believe her life at the court is altogether a happy one, for the Hon. Mrs. Algernon Hightower still wields sway, and the routine of living under such auspices is far from presenting an aspect of pleasure.
               Miss Isabel, they say, will marry a Londoner, and reside in town. Possibly the honorable lady will betake herself thither when the happy event is consummated,—an issue which, for the sake of my little Nell, I shall devoutly pray for.
               Bertie rejoined his regiment, and gradually rose in the service to distinction. He is now colonel of her Majesty's Royal Rifles, and writes enthusiastically of life in India.
               Hope is looking forward to a time when he will come over to England to remain permanently. She chatters to me of her castles in the air, fondly believing in their reality; so, Bertie and Bertie's future is ever a sweet morsel upon our tongues.
               Out on the lawn and in through the hall come bounding the riotous children. The eldest is my pride,—a boy of nine years, a second Geoffrey, with eyes so truthfully gray, and flashes of thought deep sparkling upon brow and lips.
               "Aunt Luce!"
               He taps at my door; when he bounces in, pleads with me, and smothers me with roguish kisses, what can I do but lay aside my pen, and go to walk with him by the seashore? He has a great fancy for the ocean, the ships, and talks loudly in his bold, boyish manner of the future.
               "When I am a man," he says, "I shall be a sailor, and you can come on my ship, and sail over the world with me."
               I scarcely hear him, for my eyes are traveling afar, to find a glittering speck between myself and the sun.
               There rising to greet me is the beacon that has been erected by Lord Chester, to warn mariners of the danger lurking upon that circular reef of rocks I know so well.
               "What makes you cry, Aunt Luce?" asks the boy. "You always cry when you look at the cross yonder."
               "Because," I answered, "I think then of the many brave men who are sleeping beneath these waves. They are so fair, so gentle now; but oh, you should see them when they are angry. It would make you shudder, child."
               Then I told him the story of Captain Mildmay.
               "Why," he said, proudly, "he was a noble fellow, Aunt Luce! I wish I could have seen him. He would be glad to know, wouldn't he, that England honors him as she does! The government has raised a monument to him, you say, and lots of praise has been given him; he's better off dead, I know!"
               My cousin Maud is now Lady Chester. I have never seen her since the time of the storm and the shipwreck. Old Margery went home to live with her when Maud returned to the Court, and, upon her marriage, accompanied her to Tyne Abbey,—the future residence of Lord and Lady Chester.
               The gossips agree that Lady Chester is superbly handsome. She is too proud, too statuesque, though, they think; but nevertheless she is the wonder and admiration of the beau monde, and it is quite the fashion to worship at the feet of the marble beauty.
               
               So runs the world away.
               It is evening now while I am writing. The shutters are open. The sweet-scented summer air blows in, and stirs the roses on my desk. The stillness of the moorlands is a dreamy one. The yellowing corn waves in the fields, and I hear afar off the call of a cowherd as he drives home his cattle.
               The children are shouting in the garden below. Dear, happy children! Happy and glad in their innocence and ignorance!
               I go to the window and look out.
               There comes Geoffrey home. He has been out hunting, for a bag of game is over his shoulder, and a couple of pointers follow at his heels.
               They disappear; no other figure intrudes upon the landscape.
               The hills are gray in the fading light. The moor looks lonely, but beautiful in its solitude, and the far-away group of houses in the village seems a mere speck beyond the trees.
               A shining golden vision appears to rise before me. It is only fancy, but I know the beacon is towering upon the rocks, and in my grief it helps me to remember that so does the beacon of faith tower amid the sorrows and dangers of the world.
               I follow it with eyes of trust by day and by night; I know that though storms lash it, and waves seek to destroy it, grandly it lifts its shining head above storm and wave, wreck and ruin.
               And I pray for my dear ones (oh, as strongly for my weak, erring Walter), that thus may we take example and rise above sorrow, danger, and temptation.
               "Lucy dear," speaks a voice at my door, "we are waiting dinner for you. Are you dreaming day-dreams?"
               "I am coming," I call out.
               Then going into the hall, I take my sister Hope's fair face in my hands, to kiss and admire it, saying cheerily,—
               "Yes, dear, dreaming day-dreams as ever!"
            
            FINIS.
         
      
   
