
    ----CITATION----
        Burnham, Geo. P. (1814-1902). The History of the Hen Fever .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5954 wright2-0428
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  Painted by F. Winterhalter.
               
            
            D. M. G. Majesty, Victoria, Queen of Great Britain, IN THE ROBES OF THE MOST NOBLE
               ORDER OF THE GARTER.
            DAGUERREOTYPED BY THOMPSON.
            From the Portrait in possession of Geo. P. Burnham; PRESENTED TO HIM BY HER MAJESTY,
               THE QUEEN, IN 1858.
            [See Letter, page 130.]
         
         
            
               THE HISTORY OF THE HEN FEVER.
               A Humorous Record.
            
            BY GEO. P. BURNHAM.
            
            
               
            
            In one Volume. Illustrated
            
               BOSTON:
               JAMES FRENCH AND COMPANY.
               NEW YORK:
               J. C. DERBY.
               PHILADELPHIA:
               T. B. PETERSON.
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by GEORGE P.
                  BURNHAM, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of
                  Massachusetts.
               STEREOTYPED BY HOBART & ROBBINS, New England Type and Stereotype
                  Foundery,
               BOSTON.
               GEO. C. RAND, PRINTER, 3 CORNHILL.
            
         
         
            TO THE Amateurs, fanciers, and Breeders OF POULTRY, THE SUCCESSFUL AND
               UNFORTUNATE DEALERS, THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES; AND THE VICTIMS OF
               MISPLACED CONFIDENCE IN THE HEN TRADE, GENERALLY, I DEDICATE This
               Volume.
         
         
            
            PREFACE.
            IN preparing the following pages, I have had the opportunity to inform myself pretty
               accurately regarding the ramifications of the subject upon which I have written
               herein; and I have endeavored to avoid setting down "aught in malice" in this
                  "History of the HEN FEVER" in the United States.
            I have followed this extraordinary mania from its
               incipient stages to its final death, or its cure, as the reader may
               elect to term its conclusion. The first symptoms of the fever were exhibited in my
               own house at Roxbury, Mass., early in the summer of 1849. From that time down to the
               opening of 1855 (or rather to the winter of 1854), I have been rather intimately
               connected with the movement, if common report speaks correctly; and I believe I have
               seen as much of the tricks of this trade as one usually meets with in the course of a
               single natural life.
            Now that the most serious effects of this (for six years) alarming epidemic have
               passed away from among us, and when "the people" who have been called upon to pay the
               cost of its support, and for the burial of its victims, can look back upon the
                  scenes that have in
               that period transpired with a disposition cooled by experience, I have thought that a
               volume like this might prove acceptable to the hundreds and thousands of those who
               once "took an interest in the hen trade,"—who may have been mortally
               wounded, or haply who have escaped with only a broken wing; and who will not object
               to learn how the thing has been done, and "who threw the bricks"!
            If my readers shall be edified and amused with the perusal of this work as much as I
               have been in recalling these past scenes while writing it, I am content that I have
               not thrown the powder away. I have written it in perfect good-nature, with the design
               to gratify its readers, and to offend no man living.
            And trusting that all will be pleased who may devote an hour to its
               pages, while at the same time I indulge the hope that none will feel
               aggrieved by its tone, or its text, I submit this book to the public.
            
               Respectfully,
               GEO. P. BURNHAM.
               RUSSET HOUSE, Melrose, 1855.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               I. PREMONITORY SYMPTOMS OF THE DISEASE, 9
               
               II. THE "COCHIN-CHINAS." BUBBLE NUMBER ONE, 14
               
               III. THE FIRST FOWL SHOW IN BOSTON, 21
               
               IV. HOW "POULTRY-BOOKS" ARE MADE, 26
               
               V. THREATENING INDICATIONS, 32
               
               VI. THE EPIDEMIC SPREADING, 37
               
               VII. ALARMING DEMONSTRATIONS, 41
               
               VIII. THE FEVER WORKING, 47
               
               IX. THE SECOND POULTRY SHOW IN BOSTON, 52
               
               X. THE MUTUAL ADMIRATION SOCIETY'S SECOND SHOW, 58
               
               XI. PROGRESS OF THE MALADY, 65
               
               XII. MY CORRESPONDENCE, 70
               
               XIII. THE OTHER SIDE OF THE QUESTION, 85
               
               XIV. "BOTHER'EM POOTRUMS." BUBBLE NUMBER TWO, 90
               
               XV. ADVERTISING EXTRAORDINARY, 98
               
               XVI. HEIGHT OF THE FEVER, 104
               
               XVII. RUNNING IT INTO THE GROUND, 111
               
               XVIII. ONE OF THE FINAL KICKS, 119
               
               XIX. THE FOURTH FOWL SHOW IN BOSTON, 124
               
               XX. PRESENT TO QUEEN VICTORIA, 129
               
               XXI. EXPERIMENTS OF AMATEURS, 137
               
               XXII. TRUE HISTORY OF "FANNY FERN," 147
               
               
               XXIII. CONVALESCENCE, 155
               
               XXIV. AN EXPENSIVE BUSINESS, 160
               
               XXV. THE GREAT PAGODA HEN, 165
               
               XXVI. "POLICY THE BEST HONESTY," 176
               
               XXVII. A GENUINE HUMBUG, 182
               
               XXVIII. BARNUM IN THE FIELD, 190
               
               XXIX. FIRST "NATIONAL" POULTRY SHOW IN NEW YORK, 198
               
               XXX. BARNUM'S INNATE DIFFIDENCE, 204
               
               XXXI. A SUPPRESSED SPEECH, 213
               
               XXXII. A "CONFIDENCE" MAN, 220
               
               XXXIII. THE ESSENCE OF HUMBUG, 224
               
               XXXIV. A TRUMP CARD, 229
               
               XXXV. "HOLD YOUR HORSES," 237
               
               XXXVI. TRICKS OF THE TRADE, 243
               
               XXXVII. FINAL DEATH-THROES, 252
               
               XXXVIII. THE PORTE-MONNAIE I OWE 'EM COMPANY, 259
               
               XXXIX. A SATISFACTORY PEDIGREE, 263
               
               XL. DOING THE GENTEEL THING, 273
               
               XLI. THE FATE OF THE "MODEL" SHANGHAES, 279
               
               XLII. AN EMPHATIC CLINCHER, 288
               
               XLIII. "STAND FROM UNDER," 294
               
               XLIV. BURSTING OF THE BUBBLE, 302
               
               XLV. THE DEAD AND WOUNDED, 307
               
               XLVI. A MOURNFUL PROCESSION, 312
               
               XLVII. MY SHANGHAE DINNER, 318
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The history of the hen fever
            THE HISTORY OF THE HEN FEVER.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               PREMONITORY SYMPTOMS OF THE DISEASE.
               I WAS sitting, one afternoon, in the summer of 1849, in my little parlor, at
                  Roxbury, conversing with a friend, leisurely, when he suddenly rose, and passing
                  to the rear window of the room, remarked to me, with considerable enthusiasm,
               "What a splendid lot of fowls you have, B——! Upon my word, those are very fine
                  indeed,—do you know it?"
               I had then been breeding poultry (for my own amusement) many years; and the
                  specimens I chanced at that time to possess were rather even in color, and of good
                  size; but were only such as any one might have had—bred from the common stock of
                  the country—who had taken the same pains that I did with mine.
               There were perhaps a dozen birds, at the time, in the rear yard, and my friend (then, but
                  who subsequently passed to a competitor, and eventually turned into a sharp but
                  harmless enemy) was greatly delighted with them, as I saw from his enthusiastic
                  conversation, and his laudation of their merits.
               I am not very fast, perhaps, to appreciate the drift of a man's motives in casual
                  conversation,—and then, again, it may be that I am "not so slow" to comprehend
                  certain matters as I might be! At all events, I have sometimes flattered myself
                  that, on occasions like this, I can "see as far into a millstone as can he who
                  picks it;" and so I listened to my friend, heard all he had to say, and made up my
                  mind accordingly, before he left me.
               "I tell you, B——, those are handsome chickens," he insisted. "I've got a fine lot,
                  myself. You keep but one variety, I notice. I've got 'em all."
               "All what?" I inquired.
               "O, all kinds—all kinds. The Chinese, and the Malays, and the Gypsies, and the
                  Chittaprats, and the Wang Hongs, and the Yankee Games, and Bengallers, and
                  Cropple-crowns, and Creepers, and Top-knots, and Gold Pheasants, and Buff
                  Dorkings, and English Games, and Black Spanish and Bantams,—and I've several
                     new breeds too, I have made myself, by crossing and mixing,
                     in the last year, which beat the world for beauty and size, and
                  excellence of quality."
               "Indeed!" I exclaimed. "So you have made several new breeds during
                     one year's crossing, eh? That is remarkable, doctor,
                  certainly. I have never been able yet to accomplish so extraordinary a feat,
                  myself," I added.
               "Well, I have," said the doctor,—and probably, as he was a practising
                  physician of several years' experience, he knew how this reversion of nature's law
                  could be accomplished. I did n't.
               "Yes," he continued; "I have made a breed I call the 'Plymouth Rocks,'—superb
                  birds, and great layers. The—a—'Yankee Games,'—regular knock-'em-downs,—rather
                  fight than eat, any time; and never flinch from the puncture of steel. Indeed,
                     so plucky are these fowls, that I think they rather
                     like to be cut up than otherwise,—alive, I mean. Then, I've
                  another breed I've made—the 'Bengal Mountain Games.' These are
                  smashers—never yield, and are magnificent in color. Then I have the
                     'Fawn-colored Dorkings,' too; and several other fancy breeds, that
                  I've fixed up; and fancy poultry is going to sell well in the next three years,
                  you may be sure. Come and see my stock, B——, won't you? And I'll send you anything
                  you want from it, with pleasure."
               I was then the editor of a weekly paper in Boston. I accepted my friend's kind
                  invitation, and travelled forty miles and back to examine his poultry. It looked
                     well—very well; the arrangement of his houses, &c., was
                     good, and I was gratified with the
                  show of stock, and with his politeness. But he was an enthusiast; and I saw this
                  at the outset. And though I heard all he had to say, I could not, for the life of
                  me, comprehend how it was that he could have decided upon the astounding merits of
                  all these different breeds of fowls in so short a space of time—to
                  wit, by the crossings in a single year! But that was his affair, not mine. He was
                  getting his fancy poultry ready for the market; and he repeated, "It will
                     sell, by and by."
               And I believe it did, too! The doctor was right in this
                  particular.
               He informed me that he intended to exhibit several specimens of his fowls,
                  shortly, in Boston; and soon afterwards I met with an advertisement in one of the
                  agricultural weeklies, signed by my friend the doctor, the substance of which was
                  as follows: 
                     NOTICE.—I will exhibit, at Quincy Market, Boston, in a few
                        days, sample pairs of my fowls, of the following pure breeds; namely,
                        Cochin-China, Yellow Shanghae, Black Spanish, Fawn-colored Dorkings,
                        Plymouth Rocks, White Dorkings, Wild Indian, Malays, Golden Hamburgs, Black
                        Polands, Games, &c. &c.; and I shall be happy to see the stock of
                        other fanciers, at the above place, to compare notes, etc. etc.
                  
               
               The above was the substance of the "notice" referred to; and the doctor, coming to
                  Boston shortly after, called upon me. I showed him the impropriety of this
                  movement at once, and suggested that some spot other than Quincy Market should be
                  chosen for the proposed exhibition,—in which I would join, provided an appropriate
                  place should be selected.
               After talking the matter over again, application was made to an agricultural
                  warehouse in Ann-street, or Black-stone-street, I believe; the keepers of which
                  saw the advantages that must accrue to themselves by such a show (which would
                  necessarily draw together a great many strangers, out of whom they might
                  subsequently make customers); but, at my suggestion, this very stupid plan was
                  abandoned—even after the advertisements were circulated that such an exhibition
                  would come off there.
               Upon final consideration, it was determined that the first Exhibition of Fancy
                  Poultry in the United States of America should take place in November, 1849, at
                  the Public Garden, Boston.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               THE "COCHIN-CHINAS." BUBBLE NUMBER ONE.
               A PUBLIC meeting was soon called at the legislative hall of the Statehouse, in
                  Boston, which had the effect of drawing together a very goodly company of savans,
                  honest farmers, amateurs, poulterers, doctors, lawyers, flats, fanciers and
                     humbugs of one kind or another. I never attended one
                  of the meetings; and only know, from subsequent public and private "reports," what
                  occurred there.
               On this first occasion, however, after a great deal of bosh and
                  stuff, from the lips of old men and young men, who possessed not the slightest
                  possible shadow of practical knowledge of the subject proposed to be discussed, it
                  was finally resolved that the name for the (now defunct) association then and
                  there formed, should be "The New England Society for the Improvement of
                     Domestic Poultry"!!!
               
               Now, the only objection I ever raised to this title was that it was not
                  sufficiently lengthy! When applied to for my own views on the
                  subject, I recommended that it should be called the "Mutual
                  Admiration Society." But, though I was thought a great deal of by its
                  members,—especially when the concern was short of funds,—in this case
                  they thought my proposed title was altogether too applicable; and the original
                  name, above quoted, was adhered to.
               I was honored with the office of vice-president of the society, for Massachusetts;
                  to which place I was reëlected annually, I believe, until the period of its death.
                  For which honor I was not ungrateful, and in consideration of which, "as in duty
                  bound, I have ever prayed" for the association's prosperity and weal.
               The first name that was placed upon the list of subscribers to the constitution of
                  this society was that of His Excellency Geo. N. Briggs, formerly Governor of this
                  commonwealth. He was followed by a long list of "mourners," most of whom probably
                  ascertained, within five years from the hour when they subscribed to this roll,
                  that causing the cock's spur to grow between his eyes was not quite
                  so easy a thing to accomplish as one "experienced poultry-breeder" at this meeting
                  coolly asserted it to be! How many attempted this experiment (as well as numerous
                  others there suggested as feasible), I am not advised. But I am inclined to think
                  that those who did try it found it to be "all in their eye."
               While these gentlemen were arranging the details of the new "society," and were
                  deciding upon what the duties of the officers and committees should be, I quietly
                  wrote out to England for information
                  regarding the somewhat notorious "Cochin-China" fowl, then creating
                  considerable stir among fanciers in Great Britain; and soon learned that I could
                  procure them, in their purity, from a gentleman in Dublin, whose stock had been
                  obtained, through Lord Heytsbury (then Lord Lieutenant of Ireland), direct from
                  Queen Victoria's samples. I ordered six of them,—two cocks and four hens,—and in
                  December, 1849, I received them through Adams & Co.'s Transatlantic
                  Express.
               At this period there was no telegraph established from Boston to Halifax, I
                  believe. Some of the reporters for the daily city papers usually visited the
                  steamers, upon their arrival here, to obtain their foreign files of exchanges; and
                  here my birds were first seen by those gentlemen who have made or broken the
                  prospects of more than one enterprise of far greater consequence than this
                  "importation of fancy fowls" could seem to be.
               But on the day succeeding the coming of those birds, several very handsome notices
                  of the arrival of these august Chinamen appeared in the Boston papers, and a vast
                  amount of credit was accorded to the "enterprising importer" of the outlandish
                  brutes, that were described in almost celestial language!
               After considerable trouble and swearing (custom-house swearing, I mean), the
                  officers on board permitted my team to take the cage out of the steamer, and it
                  was conveyed to my residence in Roxbury, where it arrived two hours after
                  dark.
               I had long been looking for the coming of these Celestial strangers, and the
                  "fever," which I had originally taken in a very kindly way, had by this time
                  affected me rather seriously. I imagined I had a fortune on board that steamer. I
                  looked forward with excited ideas to beholding something that this part of the
                  world had never yet seen, and which would surely astound "the people," when I
                  could have the opportunity to show up my rare prize,—all the way from the yards or
                  walks of royalty itself! I waited and watched, with anxious solicitude,—and, at
                  last, the box arrived at my house. It was a curiously-built box—the fashion of it
                  was unique, and substantial, and foreign in its exterior. I supposed, naturally,
                  that its contents must be similar in character. That box contained my
                  "Cochin-Chinas,"—bred from the Queen's stock,—about which, for many weeks, I had
                  been so seriously disturbed.
               I am now well satisfied that the "Cochin-China" variety of fowl is a
                  gross fable. If such a breed exist, in reality, we have never had them in this
                  country. Anything (and everything) has been called by this name among
                  us, in the last five years; but the engraving on the following page, in my
                  estimation (and I have been there!), is the nearest thing possible to a likeness
                  of this long petted bird; and will be recognized, I think, by more
                  than one victim, as an
                  
                     PORTRAIT OF THE "COCHIN-CHINA" FOWL!
                   accurate and faithful portrait of this lauded "magnificent" and "superb"
                  bird!
               I was anxious to examine my celestial friends at once. I caused the box to be
                  taken into a shed, at the rear of the house, and I tore from its front a piece of
                  canvas that concealed them from view, to behold a———well! n'importe—they were Cochin-China fowls!
               But, since God made me, I never beheld six such birds before, or
                  since! They resembled giraffes much more nearly than they did any
                  other thing, carnivorous, omnivorous,—fish, flesh, or fowl. I let them out upon
                  the floor, and one of the cocks seized lustily upon my India-rubber over-shoe, and
                  would have swallowed it (and myself), for aught I know, had not a friend who stood
                  by seized him, and absolutely choked him off!
               This is truth, strange as it may seem; but I presume they had scarcely been fed at
                  all upon their fortnight's voyage from Dublin, and I never saw any animals so
                  miserably low in flesh, in my life, before. What with their long necks, and longer
                  legs, and their wretchedly starved condition, I never wondered that the friendly
                  reporters spoke of their appearance as being "extraordinary, and strikingly
                  peculiar."
               These were the original "Cochin-China" fowls of America. And they probably never
                  had the first drop of Chinese blood in their veins, any more than had the man who bred them, and who knew this fact
                  much better than I did—who knew it well enough.
               I housed my "prize" forthwith, however, and provided them with everything for
                  their convenience and comfort. The six fowls cost me ninety dollars. They
                     were beauties, to be sure! When I informed a neighbor of their
                  cost, he ventured upon the expressive rejoinder that I "was a bigger d——d fool
                  than he had ever taken me for."
               To which I responded nothing, for I rather agreed with him myself!
               Nine months afterwards, however, I sold him a cock and three pullets, four months
                  old, raised from those very fowls, for sixty-five dollars; and I did n't retort
                  upon him even then, but took his money. The chickens I sold him were
                  "dog-cheap," at that!
               
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE FIRST FOWL-SHOW IN BOSTON.
               NEVER in the history of modern "bubbles," probably, did any mania
                  exceed in ridiculousness or ludicrousness, or in the number of its victims surpass
                  this inexplicable humbug, the "hen fever."
               Kings and queens and nobility, senators and governors, mayors and councilmen,
                  ministers, doctors and lawyers, merchants and tradesmen, the aristocrat and the
                  humble, farmers and mechanics, gentlemen and commoners, old men and young men,
                  women and children, rich and poor, white, black and gray,—everybody
                  was more or less seriously affected by this curious epidemic.
               The press of the country, far and near, was alive with accounts of "extraordinary
                  pullets," "enormous eggs" (laid on the tables of the editors), "astounding prices"
                  obtained for individual specimens of rare poultry; and all sorts of people, of
                  every trade and profession and calling in life, were on the qui vive, and joined in the hue-and-cry, regarding the
                  suddenly and newly ascertained fact that
                  hens laid eggs——sometimes; or, that somebody's crower was heavier,
                  larger, or higher on the legs (and consequently higher in value), than somebody
                  else's crower. And the first exhibition of the society with the long name came off
                  duly, at last, as agreed upon by the people, and myself.
               "The people"! By this term is ordinarily meant the body-politic, the
                  multitude, the citizens at large, the voters, the—the—a—the masses; the——well, no
                  matter! At the period of which I am now writing, the term signified the "hen-men."
                  This covered the whole ground, at that time. Everybody was included, and thus
                  nobody was left outside!
               At this first show, the committee "flattered themselves" (and who ever heard of,
                  or from, a committee that didn't do this!) that never, within the memory of the
                  oldest inhabitant,—who, by the way, was then living, but has since departed to
                  that bourn from which even defunct henmen do not return,—never had such a display
                  been witnessed; never had the feathered race before appeared in such pristine
                  beauty; never had any such exhibition been seen or read of, since the world begun!
                  And, to say truth, it was n't a very bad sight,—that same first hen-show in
                  Boston.
               Thousands upon thousands visited it, the newspapers appropriated column after
                  column to its laudation, and all sorts of people flocked to the Public Garden to
                  behold the "rare and curious and inexpressibly-beautiful samples" of poultry caged
                  up there, every individual specimen of which had, up to that hour, been straggling
                  and starving in the yards of "the people" about Boston (they and their progeny)
                  for years and years before, unknown, unhonored and unsung.
               Gilded complimentary cards, in beautifully-embossed envelopes, were duly forwarded
                  by the "committee" to all "our first men," who came on foot or in carriages, with
                  their lovely wives and pretty children, to see the extraordinary sight. The city
                  fathers, the public functionaries, governors, senators, representatives, all
                  responded to the invitation, and everybody was there.
               The cocks crowed lustily, the hens cackled musically, the ducks quacked sweetly,
                  the geese hissed beautifully, the chickens peeped delightfully, the gentlemen
                  talked gravely, the ladies smiled beneficently, the children laughed joyfully, the
                  uninitiated gaped marvellously, the crowd conversed wisely, the few knowing ones
                  chuckled quietly,—everybody enjoyed the thing immensely,—and suddenly, prominent
                  among the throng of admirers present, loomed up the stalwart form and noble head
                  of Daniel Webster, who came, like the rest, to see what he had only
                  "read of" for the six months previously.
               
               The committee saw him, and they instantly lighted on him for a speech; but he
                  declined.
               "Only a few words!" prayed one of them.
               "One word, one word!" insisted the chairman.
               "I can't!" said Daniel.
               But they were importunate and unyielding, that enthusiastic committee.
               "Gentlemen!" said the honorable senator, at last, amid the din. "Ladies and
                  gentlemen!" he continued, as a monster upon feathered stilts, at his elbow,
                  shrieked out an unearthly crow, that drowned the sound of his voice
                  instanter,—"Ladies and gentlemen, really—I—would—but the noise and confusion is so
                  great, that I cannot be heard!"—and a roar followed this capital hit, that
                  drowned, for the moment, at least, even the rattling, crashing, bellowing,
                  squeaking music of the feathered bipeds around him.
               The exhibition lasted three days. Unheard-of prices were asked, and readily paid,
                  for all sorts of fowls; most of those sold being mongrels, however. As high as
                  thirteen dollars was paid by one man (who soon afterwards became an inmate of a
                  lunatic asylum) for a single pair of domestic fowls. It was monstrous, ridiculous,
                  outrageous, exclaimed every one, when this fact—the absolute paying down of
                  thirteen round dollars, then the price of two barrels of good wheat flour—was
                  announced as having been squandered for a single pair of chickens.
               I sold some fowls at that show. I didn't buy any there,
                  I believe.
               The receipts at the gates paid the expenses of the exhibition, and left a small
                  surplus in the hands of somebody,—I never knew who,—but who took good care of the
                  money, I have not a doubt; as most of the officers at that time were,
                  like myself, "poor, but honest."
               By the time this fair closed, the pulse of the "dear people" had come to be rather
                  rapid in its throbs, and the fever was evidently on the increase. Fowls were in
                  demand. Not good ones, because nothing was then said by the anxious
                  would-be purchasers about quality. Nobody had got so far as that,
                  then. They wanted fowls only,—hens and cocks,—to which they
                  themselves gave a name.
               Some fancied one breed, or variety, and some another; but anything that sported
                  feathers,—from the diminutive Bantam to the stork-shaped Chinaman,—everything was
                  being sought after by "amateurs" and "fanciers" with a zest, and a readiness to
                  pay for, that did honor to the zeal of the youthful buyers, and a world of good to
                  the hearts of the quiet breeders and sellers, who began first to get
                  posted up, and inured to the disease.
               
                  I was an humble and modest member of this latter class.
                     I kept and raised only pure breeds of fowls.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               HOW "POULTRY-BOOKS" ARE MADE.
               SOON after this, I learned that one Asa Rugg, of Pennsylvania (a nom de guerre), was in the possession of a breed of
                  fowls that challenged all comparison for size and weight. They were called the
                     Chittagong fowl, and were thus described in the poultry-books
                  published in 1850:
               "The fowl thus alluded to has been imported, within the last two or three years,
                  into Pennsylvania, and ranks at the head of the list, in that region, for all the
                  good qualities desirable in a domestic bird. The color is a streaked
                     grey, rather than otherwise, and the portraits below" (my birds) "are
                  fine samples of this great stock. They are designated as the GREY
                  CHITTAGONGS."
               "Asa Rugg," in his letter to me, described this stock as being at the head of the
                  races of poultry, having "the largest blood in them of any variety of
                  fowl with which he was acquainted." The pair he first sent me were light-grey and
                  streaked, and "at less than seven months old weighed over nineteen
                  pounds."
               He said, in that insinuating and delicate manner so peculiar to the habits of
                  gentlemen who possess what another wishes to buy of them,—"I did not intend, my
                  dear Mr. B——, to part with these magnificent specimens at any figure
                  whatever. I assure you I had much rather retain them; for they are
                     very fine, as you would say, could you see them. If, however, you
                  are disposed to pay my price, I shall let you have them. I really shall regret
                  their absence from my yard, however. Try and make up your mind to be satisfied
                  with something else—won't you? These fowls I must keep, if possible,"
                  &c. &c.
               Now, Asa knew very well, if he had charged me two hundred (instead of
                  twenty) dollars for those grey fowls, I should have taken them from him. Of course
                  I sent for them at once; and, within ten days, they were in my poultry-house, a
                  new wonder for the hundreds who called to see my "superb" and "extraordinary"
                  fowls.
               A competitor turned up, a few months after this, a notorious breeder in P——, who,
                  though a respectable man, otherwise, never knew a hen from a stove-pipe, but who
                  had more money at that time than I had, and who, in the hen-trade, possessed the
                  impudence of the devil, without the accompanying graces to carry out his
                  object.
               This man chanced, while in Pennsylvania, to hear Asa speak of me, and
                  at once he stepped in to "head me" in that quarter. He bought all the
                     "Grey Chittagongs" that
                  Rugg had left (most of which, when they reached P——, happened to be dark
                     red and brown), and forthwith set up an establishment
                  in opposition to me; for what purpose I never knew. I did not know
                  him from a side of sole-leather, I had never spoken to or of him, and I could not
                  comprehend why this person should render himself, as he did, my future "death's
                  head" in the fowl-trade.
               If he went into the traffic for the purpose of making money out of it, he has
                  found, by this time, I have no doubt, that he would have been, at the very least
                  calculation, five thousand dollars better off had he never thrust himself into a
                  business of which he did not know the first rudiments.
               If he embarked in it to interfere with or to injure me, personally, he has now
                  ascertained, I imagine, that it required a faster horse than he was
                  in the habit of driving to keep in sight of my team.
               If his purpose was the gratification of his own petty spite or ambition only, he
                  has had to pay for the enjoyment of it,—ay, to his dear cost!—and he is welcome to
                  all he ever made out of his contemptible, niggardly huckstering.
               Soon after the first exhibition, it was announced by the publishers in Boston that
                  Dr. Bennett's new Treatise would be immediately issued by them. The doctor had
                  originally applied to the establishment in which I was then a partner, to issue
                  this work; but I recom- mended him to the others, because our own facilities for
                  getting it out were not so good as I thought were theirs.
               I furnished a considerable amount of the matter for that book, and had already
                  obtained, at my own individual expense, several of the engravings which appear in
                  the work spoken of. After the original cuts were placed in the publishers' hands,
                  they were reduced in size, and injured (for my purposes), as I conceived, when
                  they finally appeared in print.
               The doctor's book on poultry had been announced again and again; but it did not
                  make its appearance in the market, in consequence of his tardiness. Week after
                  week, and month after month, passed by, but still no Dr. Bennett's book could be
                  found. I saw some of the proof-sheets finally, observed the fate of the
                  illustrations of my fowls, and made up my mind what I would do. The
                  book was at last announced positively to appear in three weeks.
               I immediately called at a stereotype foundery, and asked how much time it would
                  require to stereotype a work of one hundred and fifty pages for me. I was told
                  that it would occupy three to four weeks to complete it. "Can't it be done in
                     one week?" I inquired. The proprietor smiled, and said that this
                  was impossible. I replied, "Well, sir, to-day is Tuesday. I have engaged to
                  deliver in New York city, on the morning of a week from next Saturday, three thousand copies of a book which I
                     am about to write. Is there no way that you can help me
                  out?" The gentleman looked at me incredulously.
               I added, "Mr. ——, I have been in the newspaper business a good many years, and I
                  have had the message of the President of the United States—a document occupying a
                  dozen columns of solid brevier and minion—set up and put to press within forty-two
                  minutes from the time it reached our office. Anything can be
                  accomplished, now-a-days, if we but will it."
               "But, you say you are about to write it. When will one 'copy' be
                  ready?" said the stereotyper.
               "I have thought of this," I replied, "but a few hours. The title,
                  even, is not yet decided upon. I will give you fifty pages of manuscript to-morrow
                  morning, the next day I will add another fifty, and you shall have the whole in
                  hand by Friday morning."
               He kindly undertook to aid me. I engaged three engravers, who worked day and night
                  upon the drawings and transfers of the fowls for my illustrations; the paper was
                  wet down on Monday and Tuesday; I read the final revised proof of my work on
                  Wednesday night; the book went to press on Thursday; the binders were ready for it
                  as it came up, the covers were put on on Friday morning, and I sent to the New
                  York house (who had bespoken them), by Harnden's Express, on Friday evening, three
                  thousand five hundred copies of the "NEW ENGLAND POULTRY-BREEDER,"
                     illustrated with twenty-five correct engravings of my
                  choice, magnificent, superb, unapproachable, pure-bred fowls.
               This book had an extraordinary sale,—far beyond my own calculations, certainly. I
                  got it out for the purpose of "doing justice" to my own stock, and calculated that
                  it would prove a good advertising medium for me,—which it did, by the
                  way. But the demand for the "New England Poultry-Breeder" was immense. And
                     thirteen different editions (varying from three thousand five
                  hundred to one thousand copies each) were issued within as many weeks, and were
                  sold, every copy of them. This is the true history of the "New England
                  Poultry-Breeder."
               By and by Dr. Bennett's book appeared. The market was now glutted with this kind
                  of thing, and this work, though a good one, generally, dragged on the hands of its
                  originators. I doubt if a thousand copies of this book ever found their way into
                  the market, the author being too deeply engrossed with his then thriving trade, to
                  trouble himself about urging the sale of his book, or of thinking about the
                  interests of his publishers.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               THREATENING INDICATIONS.
               ANOTHER meeting was now called at the Statehouse, which was even more fully
                  attended than the first, and at which much more serious indications of enthusiasm
                  were apparent.
               Old men, and middle-aged farmers, and florists, and agriculturists, and live-stock
                  breeders, from all parts of this and the neighboring states, congregated together
                  on this eventful occasion, and entered into the debate with an earnestness worthy
                  of so important and "glorious" a cause.
               Some of the speakers had by this time got to be so elated and so ardent that they
                  rehearsed all they knew, and some of them told of a great deal more than
                  themselves or anybody else had ever dreamed of, bearing upon the subject of
                  poultry-raising. But, really, the subject was an exciting one, and the talkers
                  were excusable; they could n't help it!
               Shades of morus multicaulis victims! Shadows of defunct tulip-growers! Spirits of
                  departed Merino sheep speculators! Ghosts of dead Berkshire pig fanciers! Where
                  were ye all on that eventful night, when six hundred sober, "respectable"
                  representatives of "the people" were assembled within the walls of our
                  time-honored state edifice upon Beacon Hill, in serious and animated conclave, to
                  decide the momentous question that "hens was hens," notwithstanding,
                  nevertheless!
               "Mr. President," exclaimed one of these gentlemen (whose speech was not publicly
                  reported, I think), "Mr. President, the times is propishus. We're a-enterin' on a
                  new ery. The people is a-movin' in this 'ere great, and wonderful,
                  and extraordinary—I may say, Mr. President, this 'ere soul-stirrin' and
                  'lectrefyin—branch of interestin' rural erconomy." (Applause, during which the
                  speaker advanced a step or two nearer to the presiding officer's desk, wiped his
                  nose fiercely upon a fiery-red bandanna handkerchief, and proceeded.)
               "The world, Mr. President," he continued, "is a-growin' wiser ev'ry day,—I may say
                  ev'ry hour, Mr. President! Ay, sir, ev'ry minute." (Loud applause, amid which one
                  old gentleman in a bob-wig was particularly vociferous.)
               "I say, Mr. President, the people is a-growin' wiser continu'lly; and by that
                  expression, sir, I mean to convey the idee that they are a-gettin' to know more,
                  sir! Who will gainsay this position? Whar's the man—whar's the er—individooal,
                  sir—that'll stan' up 'ere to-night, in this hallowed hall, under the shadder of
                  this doom above our heads, sir, in view
                  of the great American eagle yender,—that 'bird of promise,' sir,—and dispute the
                  assertion that I now make, Mr. President, as an American citizen, without fear and
                  without reproach!" (Deafening shouts of "Nobody! nobody can dispute
                  it!")
               "No, sir! I think not, I wot not, I ventur' not, I cal'k'late
                     not! I say, Mr. President, it is no use for nun of us to contend
                  agin the mighty ingine of progress; 'nless we'd like to get our crowns mashed in
                  for our pains, sir. That's the way it 'pears to me; and I've no doubt
                  that this 'nlitened ordinance now present, sir, will agree with me on
                     this p'int, and admit the truth that present indications, sir,
                  p'int, with strikin' force, to the proberble likelihood that the deeds begun here
                  to-night must be forever perpetooated hereafter, and that—a—they will—er—go down,
                  sir, to our children, and our children's children, a
                     posteriori, in the futur, forever!" ("Yes, yes!" and thundering
                  applause.)
               "But, sir, the p'int at issoo seems to me to be clear as the broad-faced sun on a
                  cloudy day. I'm no speaker, sir. I am not the man, sir, that goes about to
                  proclaim on tops of houses! I'm a quiet citizen, and calls myself one o' 'the
                  people,' sir. But w'en the questions comes up of this natur',—w'en it
                  'pears to me to be so clear and so transparent,—w'en the people goes abroad, sir,
                  in their might, and—er—and can't stay ter home,—w'en such things
                  occurs, sir, then I'm round!" (Shouts of "Good! good! good!" the
                  respectable old gentleman in the bob-wig creating a cloud of dust about him with
                  his stamping and excited gestures.)
               "Mr. President, I have a'most done——" ("No, no! Go on, go on!" from all parts of
                  the house.)
               "No, sir; as I've said afore, I'm no speaker, an' I make no pretenshuns to
                  oraterry. I'm a plain man, sir; but I feel deeply interested in this subject."
                  (Nobody had yet ascertained what the "subject" was, because the gentleman had n't
                  alluded to any.) "And, sir, I feel that I should be unjust to myself and to this
                  ordinance ef I did not say what I have, sir. I go in for the poultry-breedin',
                  sir, all over! Sir, 
                     
                        I love 'em, I love 'em,—an' who shall dar'
                        To chide me for lovin' and praisin' them 'are?
                        
                     
                  
               
               "I love 'em, sir,—chickens or poultry,—dead or alive. My father afore me loved
                  'em, sir; and I'm rejoiced to see the feelin's that's exhibited here to-night.
                  And, 'less anybody should suspect that I have ventured upon these few remarks with
                  mercenary motives, Mr. President (though perhaps no such suppersishun
                  would animate no man's bosom), I will state, sir, that I have no fowls to sell,
                  sir,—none whatever. No, sir! not a fowl! I'm a buyer, sir,—I want to
                     buy," shouted the excited man,—and he sat down amid the deafening plaudits of his associates
                  at this meeting, who fully appreciated his speech and his palpable
                  disinterestedness.
               (Item.—I found this gentleman the next day, and informed him that I
                  had heard of his destitution. I had understood that he had no poultry, but was in
                  search of pure-blooded stock. Before night I had fully supplied him
                  with genuine samples, at thirty dollars a pair, and no "discount for
                  cash.")
               Before this meeting concluded, the prices of fowls, and eggs, and feathers, were
                  duly discussed, the details of which I will defer to the next chapter.
               But all the indications at this convention were really of a threatening character;
                  and it would have required the strength of several stout men to have held certain
                  of the speakers as they got warmed up, and rattled away, for dear life, upon the
                  advantages that must accrue to the nation, in a thousand ways, from the
                  encouragement of this epidemic, and the certain, inevitable losses that must be
                  sustained by "the people" if they did n't go into this thing with a rush.
               Most of these speakers, however, had fowls for sale!
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE EPIDEMIC SPREADING.
               WHILE all this was transpiring, my "splendid" Cochin-China fowls had arrived from
                  England, and I had had a nice house arranged, in which to keep and exhibit them to
                  visitors.
               The pullets began to lay in January, 1850, and immediately afterwards my trade
                  commenced in earnest, which continued, without interruption, up to the close of
                  the year 1854.
               Among the "monstrosities" presented at the second meeting at the Boston Statehouse
                  were several propositions that were suggested by gentlemen-amateurs and farmers in
                  regard to the price that should be fixed on, by members of the Society with the
                  elongated title, for eggs sold for incubation.
               One man thought that two dollars a dozen for most of the fancy kinds
                  would pay well. This gentleman (I do not remember who he was) probably calculated
                  to furnish fancy eggs as a certain
                  agricultural concern had been doing for some months: that is, by first purchasing
                  them at a shilling a dozen from the eastern packets, or in Quincy Market. The next
                  man thought that three dollars per dozen would be fair. Another
                  member believed that one dollar was enough for twelve eggs, "but he
                  did n't know much about it," he acknowledged; which was pretty evident from his
                  remarks. At any rate, he had never fed a "laying hen" long enough on good corn to
                  ascertain how much she would devour while she was furnishing him with the said
                  twelve eggs, I imagine! One gentleman, more liberally disposed, probably, ventured
                  to express his willingness to pay five dollars a dozen for what he
                  wanted. I understood he got home safely after the meeting, though it was feared he
                  would be mobbed for his temerity in making this ridiculous offer!
               I had already fixed my price for the eggs that were to be dropped by
                  my "extraordinary and superb" Cochin-China fowls, which by this time had got to be
                  "the admiration of the State" (so the newspapers said). I had the
                     best fowls in this world, or in any other; this being conceded by
                  every one who saw them, there was no necessity of "talking the subject up" to
                  anybody. I charged twelve dollars a dozen for my eggs—and never
                  winked at it!
               And why should n't I have the highest price? Were not my fowls the "choicest
                  specimens" ever seen in America? Did n't everybody so declare? Did n't the press
                  and the poultry-books concede this, without an exception? Well, they did! And so,
                  for months, I obtained one dollar each for my Cochin-China fowls' eggs; and I
                  received order after order, and remittance after remittance, for eggs (at this
                  figure), which I could not begin to supply.
               And I did n't laugh, either! I had no leisure to laugh. I filled the orders as
                  they came,—"first come, first served,"—and for several months I found my list of
                  promises six or eight weeks in advance of my ability to meet them with
                     genuine eggs.
               I was not so well informed, then, as I was afterwards. I think all the eggs that
                  were then wanted might have been had. But, as the boy said, when
                  asked where all the stolen peaches he had eaten were gone, "I donno!"
               Will it be credited that, during the summer of 1850, I had dozens of full-grown
                  men—gentlemen—but enthusiastic hen-fanciers (who had contracted the fever
                  suddenly), who came to my residence for Cochin-China eggs, at one dollar each and
                  who, upon being informed that I had n't one in the house, would quietly sit down
                  in my parlor and wait two, three, or four hours at a time, for the hens to
                     lay them a few, that they might take them away with them? Such is the
                  fact, however it may be doubted.
               I subsequently sold the eggs at ten dollars a dozen; then at six dollars; and
                  finally, the third and fourth years, at
                  five dollars. This paid me, because I sent off a great many.
               But they didn't hatch well after having been transported away and shaken over in
                  the hands of careless and ignorant or reckless express agents. Thus the buyers
                  came again. Many of the early fanciers tried this experiment over and over again,
                  but with similar ill-success; and when they had expended ten, twenty, or thirty
                  dollars, perhaps, for eggs, they would begin at the beginning aright,
                  and purchase a few chickens to rear, from which they could finally procure their
                  own eggs, and go forward more successfully. But all this took time to bring it
                  about.
               And meanwhile somebody (I don't say who) was "feathering a certain
                  nest" as rapidly as a course of high-minded and honorable dealing with his
                  fellow-men would permit.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               ALARMING DEMONSTRATIONS.
               MY premises were literally besieged with visitors, and my family attendants were
                  worn out with answering the door-bell summons, from morning till night.
               "Is Mr. B—— at home? Can we see his Cochin-Chinas? Can we look at Mr. B——'s fowls?
                  Might we take a look at the chickens?" were the questions from sun to sun again,
                  almost; and I was absolutely compelled, in self-defence, to send the fowls away
                  from home, for a while, for the sake of relief from the continual annoyances to
                  which, in consequence of having them in my yard, I was subjected.
               Fifteen, twenty, often forty callers in a single day, would come to see my
                  "magnificent" Cochin-China fowls. But I sent them off, and then "the people" cried
                  for them!
               "Who's dead?" queried a stranger, passing my door one day, and observing the
                  carriages and vehicles standing in a line along the front of my garden-fence.
               "Nobody, I guess," said another; " that's where the Cochin-Chinas are
                  kept."
               
               "The what?"
               "The Cochin-Chinas."
               "What's them?"
               "Don't you know?"
               "No; never heard of 'em, afore."
               "Never heard of Burnham's Cochin-Chinas?"
               "Never! What are they?"
               "Well, I reckon you ha'n't lived in these 'ere parts long, my friend," continued
                  the other; "and you'd better step in and look at 'em."
               In came the stranger, and after examining the fowls he returned.
               "How do you like 'em?" asked the man who had already seen them, and was waiting
                  for his friend outside.
               "They 're ronchers, that's a fact! " exclaimed the gratified
                  stranger. And this was the universal opinion.
               Nobody had ever seen such fowls (I had seen a good many better
                  ones!)—nobody had ever beheld any so large, so heavy, so fine. And every one who
                  came to look at them purchased or engaged either eggs or chickens from these
                  "extraordinary" and "never-to-be-too-much-lauded " royal Cochin-China fowls!
               For my first broods of chickens (at three and four months old) I readily obtained
                  twenty-five dollars a pair: and every one of them went off "like hot cakes" at
                  this figure. It was too low for them, altogether; and I had occasion to regret,
                  subsequently, that I did not charge fifty dollars a pair;—a price which I might
                  just as easily then have obtained as if I had charged but one dollar a pair, as
                  events proved to my satisfaction.
               But everything connected with this fever could not well be learned at once. I was
                  not a very dull scholar, and I progressed gradually. One year after the receipt of
                  my Cochins, I got my own price for them, ask what I might. I sold a good many
                  pairs at one hundred dollars the couple; and, oftentimes, I received this sum for
                  a trio of them.
               Things begun to look up with me. I had got a very handsome-looking stock on hand,
                  at last; and when my numerous customers came to see me, they were surprised (and
                  so was I) to meet with such "noble" samples of domestic fowls.
                  "Magnificent!" "Astonishing!" cried everybody.
               A splendid open carriage halted before my door, one day, and there alighted from
                  it a fine, portly-looking man, whom I had never seen before, and whose name I did
                  not then learn; who, leaving an elegantly-dressed lady behind in the vehicle,
                  called for me.
               I saw and recognized the carriage, however, as one of Niles'; and I
                  was satisfied that it came from the Tremont House. As soon as the gentleman spoke,
                  I was also satisfied, from his manner of speech, that he was a Southerner. He was
                  polite and frank, apparently. I invited him in, and he went to look at my fowls; that being the object, he
                  said, of his visit.
               He examined them all, and said, quietly:
               "I'd like to get half a dozen of these, if they didn't come too high; but I
                  understand you fanciers have got the price up. I used to buy these chickens for a
                  dollar apiece. Now, they say, you're asking five dollars each for
                  them."
               I showed him my stock,—the "pure-bred" ones,—and informed him at once
                  that I had not sold any of my chickens, latterly, at less than
                     forty dollars a pair.
               He was astounded. He did n't want any—much: that is, he was n't particular. He
                  could buy them for five dollars; should n't pay that, nohow; wanted
                  them for his boy; would come again, and see about it, &c. &c.
               A five-year-old stag mounted the low fence at this moment, and sent forth an
                  electrifying crow, such as would (at that period) have taken a novice "right out
                  of his boots;" and a beautiful eight-pound pullet showed herself beside him at the
                  same time. The stranger turned round, and said:
               "There! What is your price for such a pair as that, for instance?"
               "Not for sale, sir."
               "But you will sell them, I s'pose?"
               "No, sir. I have younger ones to dispose of; but that pair are my
                  models. I can't sell them."
               The gentleman's eye was exactly filled with this pair of chickens.
               "What will you take for those two fowls?"
               "One hundred dollars, sir," I replied.
               "I guess you will—when you can get it," he added.—"Name your lowest price, now,
                  for those two. I want good ones, if any."
               "I prefer to keep them, rather than to part with them at any price,"
                  I insisted. "If, however, a gentleman like yourself, who evidently knows what good
                  fowls are, desires to procure the choicest specimens in the country, why, I
                  confess to you that those are the persons into whose hands I prefer that my best
                  stock should fall. But I will show you some at a lower figure," I continued,
                  driving this pair from the fence.
               "Don't you! Don't drive 'em away!" said the gentleman;—"let's see. That's the
                  cock?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "And this is the hen?"
               "Yes."
               "One hundred dollars! You don't mean this, of course,"
                  he persisted.
               "No, I mean that I would rather keep them, sir."
               "Well—I'll———take them," said the stranger. "It's cruel. But, I'll
                  take them;" and he paid me five twenty-dollar gold pieces down on the spot, for
                  two ten- months-old chickens, from my
                  "splendid" Royal Cochin-China fowls.
               He had a tender spot somewhere, that I had hit, during the
                  conversation, I presume. He took the two chickens into his carriage, and I have
                  never seen or heard from him from that day to this. I trust, however, if "these
                  few lines" should ever meet his eye, that his poultry turned out well, and that he
                  himself is in good health and spirits!
               I called this gallant young cock "Frank Pierce," in honor of my valiant friend now
                  of the White House, at Washington. It will be seen that I thus sold Frank for
                  fifty dollars; a sum which the majority of the people of this country have since
                  most emphatically determined was a good deal more than he ever was
                     worth!
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE FEVER WORKING.
               ABOUT this time an ex-member of Congress, formerly from Pennsylvania, was invited
                  to deliver the address before one of the county agricultural societies of that
                  state (where the fever had now begun to spread with alarming rapidity), who, in
                  the course of his speech on that occasion, delivered himself of the following
                  pointed and forcible remark.
               Speaking of poultry and the rare qualities of certain domestic fowls, he said,
                  "Ladies and gentlemen, next to a beautiful woman, and an honest farmer, I deem a
                  Shanghae cock the noblest work of God!"
               Now, this expression might be looked upon, by some persons, as savoring of
                  demagogism, or, at the least, as an approach to "running this thing into the
                  ground" (or into the air); but the honorable gentleman no doubt felt just what he
                  said. I have seen many sensible men who felt worse than this—a good deal—on this
                  self-same subject; and who expressed themselves much more warmly in regard to the
                  characteristics and beauties of domestic poultry; but, to be sure, it was after they had
                  "gone through the mill," and had come out at the small end of the
                  funnel.
               In New England, especially, prior to the second show of poultry in
                  Boston, the fever had got well up to "concert pitch;" and in New York State "the
                  people" were getting to be very comfortably interested in the subject—where
                     my stock, by this time, had come to be pretty extensively
                  known.
               The expenses attendant upon this part of the business, to wit, the process of
                  furnishing the requisite amount of information for "the people" (on a subject of
                  such manifestly great importance), the quantum
                     sufficit in the way of drawings, pictures, advertisements, puffings,
                  etc., through the medium of the press, can be imagined, not
                  described.
               The cost of the drawings and engravings which I had executed for the press, from
                  time to time, during the years 1850, '51, '52, and '53, exceeded over eight
                  hundred dollars; but this, with the descriptions of my "rare" stock (which I
                  usually furnished the papers, accompanying the cuts), was my chosen
                  mode of advertising. And I take this method publicly to acknowledge my
                  indebtedness to the press for the kindness with which I was almost uniformly
                  treated, while I was thus seriously affected by the epidemic which destroyed so
                  many older and graver men than myself; though few who survived the attack
                  "suffered" more seriously than I did, during the course of the fever. For
                  instance, the large picture of the fowls which I had the pleasure of sending to
                  Her Majesty Queen Victoria (in 1852), and which appeared in Gleason's
                     Pictorial, the New York Spirit of the Times,
                  New England Cultivator, &c., cost me, for the original drawing,
                  engraving, electrotyping, and duplicating, eighty-three dollars.
               
               All these expenses were cheerfully paid, however, because I found my reward in the
                  consciousness that I performed the duty I owed to my fellow-men, by thus aiding
                  (in my humble way) in disseminating the information which "the people" were at
                  that time so ravenously in search of, namely, as to the person of whom they could
                  obtain (without regard to price) the best fowls in the country.
               This was what "the people" wanted; and thus the malady extended far and wide, and
                  when the fall of 1850 arrived, buyers had got to be as plenty as blackberries in
                  August, whilst sellers "of reputation" were, like the visits of angels, few and
                  far between. I was, by this time, considered "one of 'em." I strove,
                  however, to carry my honors with Christian meekness and forbearance, and with that
                  becoming consideration for the wants and the wishes of my fellow-men that rendered
                  myself and my "purely-bred stock" so universally popular.
               Ah! when I look back on the past,—when I reflect upon the noble generosity and
                  disinterestedness that characterized all my transactions at that flush
                  period,—when I think of what I did for
                  "the cause," and how liberally I was rewarded for my candor, my honesty of
                  purpose, and my disingenuousness,—tears of gratitude and wonder rush to my eyes,
                  and my overcharged heart only finds its solace by turning to my ledger and reading
                  over, again and again, the list of prices that were then paid me by "the people,"
                  week after week, and month after month, for my "magnificent samples" of
                  "pure-bred" Cochin-China chickens, the original of which I had imported, and which
                  were said to have been bred from the stock of the Queen of Great
                  Britain.
               But, the Mutual Admiration——I mean, the "Society" whose name was like 
                     "Lengthened sweetness, long drawn out,"
                   was about to hold its second annual exhibition; and, as the number of its
                  members had largely increased, and as each and all of those who pulled the wires
                  of this concern (while at the same time they were pulling the wool over the eyes
                  of "the people") had plans of their own in reference to details, I made up my
                  mind, although I felt big enough to stand up even in this huge hornet's nest of
                  competition, to have things to suit my "notions."
               I now had fowls to sell! I had raised a large quantity of chickens;
                  winter was approaching, corn was high, they required shelter, the roup had destroyed scores of fowls for my neighbors, and I did n't care to
                  winter over three or four hundred of these "splendid" and "mammoth" specimens of
                  ornithology, each one of which could very cleverly dispose of more grain, in the
                  same number of months, than would serve to keep one of my heifers in tolerable
                  trim.
               Such restrictions were proposed by the officers of the Society with the lengthened
                  cognomen, that my naturally democratic disposition revolted against the arbitrary
                  measures talked of, and I resolved to get up an exhibition of my own, where this
                  matter could be talked over at leisure, and which I did not doubt would "turn an
                  honest penny" into my own pocket; where, though I had done well thus
                  far, there was still room, as there was in hungry Oliver Twist's belly, for
                  "more."
               
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE SECOND POULTRY-SHOW IN BOSTON.
               ON the 2d, 3d, and 4th days of October, in the year of our Lord 1850, the "grand
                  exhibition" (so the Report termed it), for that year, came off at
                  the large hall over the Fitchburg Railroad Dépôt, in Boston, "which proved a most
                  extensive and inviting one" (so continued the Report), "far exceeding, both in
                     numbers and in the quality of specimens offered,
                  anything of its kind ever got up in America.
               "The birds looked remarkably fine in every respect, and the undertaking was very
                  successful. A magnificent show of the feathered tribe greeted the thousands of
                  visitors who called at the hall, and all parties expressed their satisfaction at
                  the proceedings.
               "The Committee awarded to George P. Burnham, of Melrose, the first
                  premiums for fowls and chickens. The prize birds were the 'Royal
                     Cochin-Chinas' and their progeny, which have been bred with care from
                  his imported stock; and which were generally acknowledged at the head of the list
                  of specimens."
               The prices obtained at this exhibition ranged very high, and "full houses" were
                  constantly in attendance, day and evening, to examine and select and purchase from
                  the "pure-bred" stock there. "Mr. Burnham, of Melrose" (continued the Report),
                  "declined an offer of $120 for his twelve premium Cochin-China chickens, and
                  subsequently refused $20 for the choice of the pullets."
               "The show was much larger than the first one, and the character of the birds
                  exhibited was altogether finer, though the old fowls were, for the most part,
                  moulting. A deep interest was manifested in this enterprise, and it went off with
                  satisfaction to all concerned," added the Report.
               In order that the details of this experiment (which I projected and
                  carried through, myself) may be appreciated and understood, I extract from the
                  "official" Report the following items regarding this show, the expenses, the
                  prize-takers, &c.
               The "Committee of Judges," consisting of myself, G. P. Burnham, Esq., and a
                  gentleman of Melrose, made the following statements and "observations," in the
                     Report above referred to:
               "The Exhibition was visited by full ten thousand persons, during the three days
                  mentioned. The amount of money received for tickets was four hundred and
                     seventy- three dollars and
                  thirty-eight cents; and the following disbursements were made: 
                     
                        Cash paid for rent of hall,
                        $175.00
                     
                     
                        Cash paid for amount of premiums and gratuities,
                        135.00
                     
                     
                        Cash paid for lumber and use of tables,
                        17.60
                     
                     
                        Cash paid for lighting hall, advertising, etc.,
                        70.40
                     
                     
                        Cash paid for tickets, cards and handbills,
                        18.21
                     
                     
                        Cash paid for carpenters and attendants,
                        27.50
                     
                     
                        Cash paid for police and door-keepers,
                        15.00
                     
                     
                        Cash paid for grain, seed, buckets, pans, etc,
                        25.56
                     
                     
                        Cash paid for coops, cartage and sundries,
                        7.37
                     
                     
                        Total expensens,
                        $491.64
                     
                     
                        Amount received, as stated,
                        473.38
                     
                     
                        Deficit,
                        $18.26"
                     
                  
               
               When the state of the funds was subsequently more particularly inquired into,
                  however, it was found that the amount of money actually received at the door was a
                  little rising nine hundred and seventy dollars, instead of
                     "four hundred and seventy-three," as above quoted. But this was a
                  trifling matter; since the "Committee of Judges" spoken of above accounted for
                  this sum, duly, in the final settlement.
               The "Committee" aforesaid awarded the following premiums at this show, after
                  attending to the examination confided to them—namely:
               "First premium, for the best six fowls contributed, to George P. Burnham, of Melrose, Mass., $10.
               "For the three best Cochin-China Fowls (Royal), to George P.
                  Burnham, Melrose, Mass., $5.
               For the twelve best chickens, of this year's growth (Royal Cochin-China), to George P. Burnham, Melrose, $5."
               And there were some other premiums awarded, I believe, there, but by
                  which I was not particularly benefited; and so I pass by this matter without
                  further remark, entertaining no doubt whatever that all the gentlemen who were
                  awarded premiums (and who obtained the amount of the awards) exhibited at the
                  Fitchburg Hall Show pure-bred fowls.
               After making these awards, the "Committee of Judges" (consisting, as aforesaid, of
                  myself, Mr. Burnham, and a fancier from Melrose) state that "they find great
                  pleasure"—(mark this!)—"they find great pleasure in alluding again to the splendid
                  contributions" of some of the gentlemen who had fowls in this show,—and then the
                  Report continues as follows:
               "The magnificent samples of Cochin-China fowls, contributed by G. P.
                  Burnham, of Melrose, were the theme of much comment and deserved praise. These
                  birds include his imported fowls and their progeny—of which he exhibited nineteen
                  splendid specimens. To this stock the Com- mittee unanimously awarded the first premiums for fowls and
                  chickens; and finer samples of domestic birds will rarely be found in this
                  country. They are bred from the Queen's variety, obtained by Mr. Burnham last
                  winter, at heavy cost, through J. Joseph Nolan, Esq., of Dublin, and are
                  unquestionably, at this time, the finest thorough-bred Cochin-Chinas in
                  America."
               My early hen-friend the "Doctor"—alluded to in the opening chapter of this
                  book—exhibited a fowl which the "Committee" thus described in their report:
               "The rare and beautiful imported Wild India Game hen, contributed by
                  Mr. B. F. Griggs, Columbus, Geo., was a curiosity much admired. This fowl (lately
                  sold by Dr. J. C. Bennett, of Plymouth, to Mr. Griggs, for $120) is thorough game,
                  without doubt; and her progeny, exhibited by Dr. Bennett, were very beautiful
                  specimens. To this bird, and the 'Yankee Games' of Dr. Bennett, the
                  Committee awarded a gratuity of $5."
               So miserable a hum as this was, I never met with, in all my long Shanghae experience. It out-bothered the Doctor's famous
                  "Bother'ems," and really out-Cochined even my noted Cochin-Chinas!
                  But I was content. I was one of the "Committee of Judges." I had
                  forgot!
               This Committee's Report was thus closed:
               "It has been the aim of the Committee to do justice to all who have
                  taken an interest in the late Fowl Exhibition, and they congratulate the gentlemen
                  who have sustained this enterprise upon its success."
               They did ample justice to this Wild Bengal Injun Hen, that is
                  certain. The Cochin-China trade received an impulse (after this show concluded)
                  that astonished even me, and I am not easily disturbed in this
                  traffic. And I have no doubt that the people who paid their money to witness this
                  never-to-be-forgotten (by me) exhibition, were also satisfied.
               The experiment was perfectly successful, however, throughout. I forwarded to all
                  my patrons and friends copies of this Report, beautifully illustrated; and the
                  orders for "pure-bred chickens from the premium stock"
                  rushed in upon me, for the next four or five months, with renewed vigor and
                  spirit.
               This first exhibition at the Fitchburg Dépôt Hall proved to me a satisfactorily
                  profitable advertisement, as I carried away all the premiums there that were of
                  any value to anybody. But then it will be observed that the "Committee of Judges"
                  of this show were my "friends." And, at that time, the competition had got to be
                  such that all the dealers acted upon the general democratic principle of going
                  "for the greatest good of the greatest number." In my case, I considered the
                  "greatest number" Number One!
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               THE MUTUAL ADMIRATION SOCIETY'S SECOND SHOW.
               IN the month following, to wit, on the 12th, 13th and 14th of November, 1850, the
                  second annual exhibition of the Simon Pure Society with the extended title was
                  held at the Public Garden, in Boston.
               No premiums were offered by the society this year, and there was n't much to labor
                  for. I was a contributor, and I believe I was elected a member of the Committee of
                  Judges that year. How, I did not know. At any rate, I wrote the published
                     Report upon the exhibition. A Mr. Sanford Howard was chairman of
                  this committee, if I remember rightly; and though undoubtedly a very respectable
                  and well-meaning man (if he had not been so, he wouldn't have been placed on a
                  Committee of Judges with me, I imagine), this Mr. Howard knew
                  positively nothing whatever in regard to the merits or faults of
                  poultry generally. He had acquired some vague notions about what he was pleased to
                  term "crested" fowls, and five-toed, white-legged, white-plumed, white-billed,
                  white-bellied Dorkings,—of which he conversed technically and learnedly; but as to
                  his knowledge of the different varieties and breeds of domestic poultry then
                  current, and their characteristics, it was evidently warped and very limited.
               But Mr. Howard had been connected for some months with a small monthly publication
                  in New York State, and, like myself, I presume, among the board (God knows who
                  they were, but I don't, and never did!) who originally chose this
                  "Committee," he had "a friend at court," and was made chairman of the
                  committee too,—how, I never knew, either.
               In their Report, the Committee observe, again, that "never in this
                  country, if in the world, was there collected together so large a number of
                  domestic fowls and birds as were sent to this exhibition, probably; and, though
                  the most liberal arrangements were made in advance, it was found that the
                  accommodations, calculated for ten thousand specimens, were entirely
                  insufficient. The Committee merely allude to this fact to show the actual extent
                  of this enterprise, and the importance which the undertaking has assumed, in a
                  single year from the birth of the Association.
               "According to the records of the Secretary, there were contributed to the
                  Society's exhibition of 1850 some four hundred and eighty coops and cages. There
                  were in all, over three hundred and fifty contributors; in addition to which about forty coops, containing some
                  six hundred fowls, were sent to the Garden and received on exhibition upon the two
                  last days of the Show; and which could not be recorded agreeably with the
                  regulations made originally.
               "The palpable improvement in the appearance of the fowls exhibited in 1850, as
                  compared with the samples shown in 1849, offers ample encouragement to breeders
                  for further and more extended efforts; and your Committee would urge
                  it upon those who have already shown themselves competent to do so much, to
                     go on and effect still greater progress in the improvement of the
                  poultry of New England."
               This Report (the second of the series) did my stock ample justice, I
                  have not a doubt. I wrote it myself, and intended that it should do so. The text
                  was in nowise changed when printed, and a reference to the document (for that
                  year) will convince the skeptical—if any exist—whether I was or was not acquainted
                  with adjectives in the superlative degree!
               A very singular occurrence took place about this time, the basis of
                  which I did not then, and have never since, been able to comprehend, upon any
                  principles of philosophy, economy, business, benevolence, or even of sanity. But I
                  am not very clear-headed.
               In the addenda to my Report (above named) there
                  appeared the anexed statement, by somebody:
               "The Trustees refer to the following with mixed pride and pleasure; the
                  munificence and motive of the gift are most creditable. A voluntary kindness such
                  as that of Mr. Smith is a very gratifying proof that the labors of the Society are
                  not regarded by enlightened men as vain:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Boston, 12th February, 1851.
                              "G. W. SMITH, ESQ.
                           
                           "SIR: A meeting of the Trustees of the 'New England Society for the
                              Improvement of Domestic Poultry' was held last evening, Col. Samuel
                              Jaques, President of the Society, in the chair, and a full quorum
                              being present, when the Treasurer announced the receipt of your very
                              handsome donation of one hundred and fifty dollars in aid
                              of the Society's funds; whereupon it was moved, and unanimously
                              agreed, that the most grateful thanks of the Society were justly due
                              to you for such a munificent testimony of your desire for its
                              prosperity; that the Secretary communicate to you the assurance of the
                              high appreciation with which the donation was received; and that its
                              receipt, and also a thankful expression of gratitude towards you,
                              should be placed on the records of the Society.
                           "I can only reiterate the sentiments contained in my instructions, in
                              which I fully and gratefully concur; and, with best wishes for your
                              long-continued welfare,
                           
                              "I am, sir, very truly yours,
                              "JOHN C. MOORE, Rec. Secretary."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Now, it will be observed that this was not John Smith who presented
                  this sum, but another gentleman, and a different sort of individual altogether. He
                  gave it (one hundred and fifty dollars in hard cash) the full value of a nice pair of my
                     best "pure-bred" Cochin-Chinas, without flinching, without any
                  fuss, outright, freely, "in aid of the Society's funds."
               Liberal, generous, benevolent, charitable, kindly Mr. Smith! You did yourself
                  honor! You were one of the kind of men that I should very much liked
                  to have had for a customer, about those days. But, after due inquiry, I
                  ascertained that you did not keep, or breed, poultry. You were only a "friend" to
                  the Society with the elongated name,—the only friend, by the way, it
                  ever had! Heaven will reward you, Mr. Smith, sooner or later, for your
                  disinterestedness, but the Society never can. Be patient, however, and console
                  yourself with the reflection that he who giveth to the poor, lendeth &c.
                  &c. The Society with the long-winded title was poor enough, and
                  you cannot have forgotten that he who casteth his bread (or money) upon the waters
                  will find it, after many days. You will find yours again, I have no doubt; but it
                  will be emphatically "after many days."
               The second show closed, the expenses of which reached the sum of one thousand and
                  twenty-seven dollars eighteen cents, and the receipts at which amounted to one
                  thousand and seventy-nine dollars eighty-four cents, exclusive of the above-named
                  donation. The Society had now a balance of two hundred and two dollars sixty-six
                  cents in hand, and it went on its way rejoicing.
               
                  
                     THE SHANGHAE REFERRED TO IN LETTER NO. 17.—(See page 80.)
                  
               
               
               COL. JAQUES (the first President) now "resigned his commission," and MOSES
                  KIMBALL, Esq., was chosen in his stead. I found myself once more among the Vice
                  Presidents, John C. Moore was elected Secretary, Dr. Eben Wight was made Chairman
                  of the Board of Trustees, and H. L. Devereux became Treasurer for the succeeding
                  year.
               These officers were all "honorable men," who were thus placed in position to
                     watch each other! The delightful consequences can readily be fancied.
                  What my own duties were (as Vice-President) I never knew. I supposed, however,
                  that, as "one of 'em" thus elevated in official rank, I was expected to do my
                  uttermost to keep the bubble floating, and to aid, in my humble way, to maintain
                  the inflation. And I acted accordingly; performing my duty "as I understood
                  it"!
               
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               PROGRESS OF THE MALADY.
               IMMEDIATELY after this second exhibition, the sales of poultry largely increased.
                  Everybody had now got fairly under weigh in the hen-trade; and in every town, at
                  every corner, the pedestrian tumbled over either a fowl-raiser or some huge
                  specimen of unnameable monster in chicken shape.
               I had been busy, and had added largely to my "superior" stock of "pure-blooded"
                  birds, by importations from Calcutta, Hong-Kong, Canton and Shanghae, direct. In
                  two instances I sent out for them expressly, and in two or three other instances I
                  had obtained them directly from on shipboard, as vessels arrived into Boston and
                  New York harbors.
               I was then an officer in the Boston Custom-house,—a democrat under a whig
                  collector,—otherwise, a live skinned eel in a hot frying-pan. But I found that my
                  business had got to be such that I could not fulfil my duty to Uncle Sam and
                  attend appropriately to what had now got to be of very much greater importance to me; and so I
                  resigned my situation as Permit Clerk at the public stores, very much to the
                  regret of everybody in and out of the Customhouse, and especially those who were
                  applicants for my place!
               I had purchased a pretty estate in Melrose, and now I enlarged my premises, added
                  to my stock, and raised (during the summer and fall of 1851) over a thousand
                  fowls, upon my premises. This did not begin to supply the demands of my customers,
                  however, or even approach it. And, to give an idea of my trade at that period, I
                  will here quote a letter from one of my new patrons. It came from the interior of
                  Louisiana, in the fall of 1851.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "GEO. P. BURNHAM, ESQ., BOSTON.
                           
                           "I am about to embark in the raising of poultry, and I hear of
                              yourself as an extensive breeder in this line. Do me the favor to
                              inform me, by return mail, what you can send me one hundred
                                 pairs of Chinese fowls for, of the yellow, red, white, brown
                              and black varieties; the cocks to be not less than eight to ten months
                              old, and pullets ready to lay; say twenty pairs of each color. And
                              also state how I shall remit you, in case your price suits me,
                              &c.
                           
                              "—— ——".
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I informed this gentleman that I had just what he wanted (of course), and that if
                  he would remit me a draft by mail for fifteen hundred dollars—though this price
                  was really too low for them—I would forward him one hun- dred pairs of fowls "that
                  would astonish him and his neighbors." Within three weeks from the date of my
                  reply to him, I received a sight draft from the Bank of Louisiana upon the
                  Merchants' Bank, Boston, for fifteen hundred dollars. I sent him such an invoice
                  of fowls as pleased him, and I have no doubt he was (as he seemed to be) perfectly
                  satisfied that he had thus made the best trade he ever consummated in the whole
                  course of his life.
               During the next spring I bred largely again, and supplied all the best fanciers in
                  New England and New York State with stock, from which they bred
                  continually during that and the succeeding year.
               In the spring of 1852 the Mutual Admiration Society of hen-men got up their
                     third show, at the Fitchburg Dépôt (in May, I think),
                  where a goodly exhibition came off, and where there were now fowls for
                     sale of every conceivable color and description, good, bad, and
                  indifferent. I contributed as usual, and, as usual, carried away the palm for the
                     best samples shown. And here was evinced some of the shifts to
                  which certain hucksters resorted, to make "the people" believe that white was
                  black, that they originally brought this subject before the public eye, and that
                     they only possessed the pure stock then in the country.
               Reverends, and doctors, and deacons, and laymen,—all were there, in force. Every
                  man cried down every other man's fowls, while he as strenuously cried up his own.
                     Upon one cage appeared a card vouching
                  for the fact that a certain original Shanghae crower within it, all
                  the way from the land of the Celestials, weighed fourteen pounds and three ounces,
                  and that a hen, with him, drew nine pounds six ounces (almost twenty-four pounds).
                  When the birds were weighed, the first drew ten and a half pounds, and the other
                  eight and a quarter only. This memorandum appeared upon the box of a
                     clergyman contributor, who had understood that size and great
                  weight only were to be the criterion of merit and value thenceforward. Another
                  contributor boldly declared himself to be the original holder of the only good
                  stock in America. A third claimed to be the father of the current movement, and
                  had a gilded vane upon his boxes which he asserted he had had upon his
                  poultry-house for five years previously. Another stated that all my fowls (there
                  shown) were bred from his stock. And still another proclaimed that
                  the identical birds which I contributed were purchased directly of him; he knew
                  every one of them. Finally, one competitor impudently hinted that my birds
                  actually then belonged to him, and had only been loaned
                  to me (for a consideration) for exhibition on this occasion!
               When the fair closed, however, the matter was all set right, as may be gathered
                  from the following extract from the official Report of the third show, of the
                  Committee of Judges, of which I was not a member:
               "At this third Boston Show," says the Committee, "the best and most faultless
                  descriptions of Red and Buff Shanghaes were shown by G. P. Burnham, Esq., and
                  others. And of the Cochin-Chinas, the specimens of Geo. P. Burnham, etc., were
                  each and all notable, and worthy of public appreciation."
               This was satisfactory to me, and I made the most of this "werry fav'rable opinion"
                  of the august Committee,—who added the following, in their Report, in reference to
                  the action of Southern purchasers:
               
                  "It seems, from reliable information received by members of the Committee, that
                     fowls raised in New England, and exported South, attain to a much larger size,
                     and are vastly more prolific, than in our colder climate. This is specially so
                     in reference to the produce of stocks recently imported from the East, namely,
                     the Shanghaes, Cochin-China fowls, and others of larger varieties. So
                        sensible have some of the most eminent Southern breeders become that such is
                        the case, that they are annually in the habit of buying their young stock
                        from the Northern States, and they find the system profitable. In
                     this way, New England bids fair to become the supply-market, in a great
                     measure, for the South and West."
               
               This was beautiful! "Annually in the habit." I liked
                     that portion of it. And Southern buyers seemed to like it, too,
                  judging from the manner in which orders poured in upon us, after this gentle hint
                  from such authority! I believe that the Chinese fowls really did
                  better in the South than they did with us, this way. At least, I hope
                  they did!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               MY CORRESPONDENCE.
               BY this time my correspondence with gentlemen in all parts of America and Great
                  Britain had got to be rather extended. I took from the post-office from ten to
                  twenty-five or thirty letters, daily; and amongst them were some curious samples
                  of orthography, etymology, syntax, and prosody. I offer the annexed specimens—of
                  course without names or dates—merely to show how the young aspirants for fame (in
                  the poultry-trade) felt, about those days; and, also, to give some idea of the
                  progress of the fever among us, as time passed by, etc. etc.
               
                  No. 1.
                  
                     SIR—MR. BURNHAM;
                  
                  i red in Nu england poultry breeder that yu kep fouls an aigs for sail. i want
                     one duzen aigs if tha doant cum tu tu mutch. ime a poor mann an carnt pa a gret
                     pris. wot can yu cend me a duzen of yure best aigs for. ansur by male and
                     direck yure leter tu me tu mi dress.
                  
                     Yr Respec'y, &c.
                     —— ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 2.
                  
                     MY DEAR SIR:
                  
                  I am a poor clergyman, and I have some leisure, which I can devote to raising a
                     few good fowls. If your price is not too high for the rather limited contents
                     of my purse, please inform me, by return of mail, what you can furnish me with
                        pure Cochin-China eggs for. I am desirous to procure a few; and
                     I prefer that you would select for me,—in a half-dozen, say two
                        male and four female eggs. I suggest this, because
                     I am informed that your long experience in this interesting branch of rural
                     economy has enabled you to decide (upon examining them) whether eggs will
                     produce cocks or pullets. Your early answer will confer a favor on,
                  
                     Sir, yours, truly,
                     —— — ——
                  
               
               
                  No. 3.
                  
                     MR. BURMAN:
                  
                  I close you ten dolls. Cend me a doz. of your Cotchen Chiny eggs rite
                     away—cause I hav a hen thats been a setting on some stones I put under her now
                     most a week. You rote me that you would hav them about this time, you know. Cend them by ——'s Express, and
                     tell the man who fetches them not to turn the box over, at all. I want half and
                     half—that is to say, half cock eggs, and half hen eggs. You know what I mean by
                     this. Them that has the sharp ends on to one side—them's the cocks, and them
                     that's round and smooth at both ends—them's the hens. Forwud immediately, and
                     mark with care glass this side up—don't shake this with speed.
                  
                  
                     Yours, &c.
                     —— ——
                  
               
               
                  No. 4.
                  
                     G. P. BURNHAM, ESQ.
                  
                  DEAR SIR: I saw your beautiful Cochin-China fowls last week, in the paper, and
                     am desirous to obtain a few eggs from them, if possible.
                  Will they hatch under our common hens? Or, must we have the pure
                     bloods to sit upon them? I am a novice, somewhat, in this business. I enclose
                     you twelve dollars (the price for a dozen, I believe), which please forward, at
                     your early convenience, by express, and oblige
                  
                     Yours, &c.
                     —— — ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 5.
                  
                     
                        FRIEND BURNHAM:
                     
                     Enclosed please find ten dollars for another dozen of your pure
                        Cochin-China eggs. The first ones you sent me (from some cause) did not
                        hatch. I have kept a hen (a very good sitter, too) upon that first lot,
                           constantly, for four weeks, now—and I don't believe I shall
                        get a chick, you see! So, please forward these now, right
                        away—because my hen will get tired of waiting, you know, if I don't
                        keep her right along, steady. The $10 you will find within.
                     
                        Yours, resp'y,
                        —— ——.
                     
                  
                  
                     P. S. Can you inform me what is good for lice on fowls? I find
                        that my hen is covered with a million of them, now. Don't forget this,
                           please.*
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        *After a hen had set over four weeks on her nest, I should suppose she
                           might have been thus affected!
                     
                  
               
               
                  No. 6.
                  SUR—wen i cum to boston nex weak i want to see yure poltry i am a ole hand at
                     the bizness myself an I like to see good kinds of poltry every ware. i see yurn
                     in the paper an i like them verry much can yu sel a hen without a cock, i have
                     sevral cocks now of the black dawkin pure bred and fine an i would
                     change one of them with yu for a cochon chiner hen if yu say so. answer by fust
                     male.
                  
                     Yure in haist
                     —— ——.
                     
                        Mr. P. G. Barnum,
                        boston.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  No. 7.
                  DEAR SIR: Yours duly received. I did not suppose that the price of the
                     "Cochins" was so high—but I must have a trio of them, at any
                     figure. I enclose you fifty dollars for them, agreeably with your proposal,
                     relying upon your known good taste in selections, and upon your proverbial
                     reputation as regards the keeping only of pure stock. Send them by
                     Adams & Co.'s Express, in a roomy cage. If they are prime, my neighbors
                     will very shortly order from you, I am sure.
                  
                     Yours, resp'y,
                     —— — ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 8.
                  
                     MR. BARNAM:
                  
                  Them two fowls I bought of you, by seeing the pictur in the newspaper, and
                     which I paid you $35 cash down on the nail for, aint what they 're cracked up
                     to be—not by a long short, sir. Now, what I want you to do is to sen me back my
                     munney, or I'll prosecute you and put you in prizon for cheating people by
                     false pertences. I was so mad when I took them out of the box that I 'd a good
                     mine to kill an eat em both on the spot.*
                      I aint no hen-man, I'd have you to understan, an you can't
                     come none of this kine of nonsense over me. Sen me back my munney,
                     or I'll complain of you in tu days before a Justis of the Peas—a friend of
                     mine, that'll give you fits if you air a big man. I
                     don't keer for that. I want my munney. The fowls is both sick, too. Answer this
                     tu once, or els sen me back my munney.*
                     
                  
                 
                  
                     —— — ——
                  
                  
                     
                     *O, the cannibal!
                  
                  
                     
                     *I never heard from this customer again, and should now be glad to know if
                        he ever got his "munney"
                  
               
               
                  No. 9.
                  
                     G. P. BURNHAM, ESQ.:
                  
                  I saw a cage of superb Cochin-China fowls from your yard, yesterday, en route to Mobile. Can you duplicate them? If so,
                     at what price? I had understood that a Mr. —— kept choice fowls. I visited his
                     place, but saw none there that seemed worth the taking away. If you can send me
                     such a trio as I saw at Adams & Co.'s, let me know it immediately, and your
                     price for them. How shall I remit you?
                  
                     Yours, &c.
                     —— ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 10.
                  
                     MR. BURNHAM:
                  
                  I enclose you one hundred dollars, by check on Shoe and Leather Dealers' Bank,
                     Boston (No. 417), to your order, for the fine fowls you describe in yours
                     received this day. They should be good ones, as I have no doubt
                     they are. Forward, at once,
                  
                     And believe me,
                     Yours,
                     —— ——
                  
               
               
                  
                  No. 11.
                  
                     
                        G. B. BURNHAM, BOSTON.
                     
                     SIR: When I paid you $25 (twenty-five dolls.) for a pair of
                           Cochin-China chickens, according to your own terms, I did
                        not suppose you would dare to send to me (whom you must know to
                        be a judge of all kinds of poultry) a pair of Shanghaes,
                        instead of those I ordered!*
                         I want none but pure-bred fowls in my collection, nor
                        will I have them there, either. I have now a plenty of the Shanghaes, and I
                        ordered a pair of Cochin-Chinas of you. Now, I want to know what you will do
                        in this matter. Will you send me a pair of Cochins, or not?
                        That is all I want to know at present. From
                     
                        Yours, truly,
                        —— ——.
                     
                     
                        
                        *Here was a "lawyer," who knew the difference between a Cochin-China
                           and a Shanghae!
                     
                  
                  
                     P.S. I am a lawyer by profession; and I submit to no imposition of this
                        sort, you may be sure.
                  
               
               
                  No. 12.
                  
                     G. P. BURNHAM.
                     MY DEAR SIR:
                  
                  The magnificent "Cochin-China" birds you forwarded me last are the admiration
                     of every one who beholds them; and I am greatly your debtor for this superb lot
                     of fowls. My neighbor, Hon. Mr. M——, desires me to request you to forward him
                     four as nearly like mine as possible, and your draft on me, at sight, for the
                     cost, will be duly honored. He can afford (and is willing) to pay liberally for
                        them.*
                      Charge him accordingly; but be careful that you do not send him finer
                     samples than mine are,—which, by the way, I do not think possible.
                     I enclose you draft for $120, on Merchants' Bank, Boston, for your bill. And
                     am
                  
                     Yours, truly,
                     —— ——.
                  
                  
                     
                     *This was the kind of gentleman I loved to fall in with.
                  
               
               
                  No. 13.
                  SIR—I hav alwas heerd yu was a scamp, and now I know yu are.†
                      Them egs yu sent me was smasht all up, an they was runnin' down the
                     sides of the box. What am I to do with them, sir—do yu think? Do yu spose I've
                     gut money so plenty as to throw it way in this manner? Yu didnt put in
                        harf meal anuf, and the hole of them was spilte, besides being
                     roten I hav no manner of dout. Now if yu send me back the six dolls, that the
                     postmaster see me put into my fust letter to yu, all's well an good. And ef yu
                     don't, see if I don't publis yu and yure caracter tu the hole wurld yu infermus
                     cheet yu. Yu'd aughter be ashamed tu send a man egs that wa, anny how. So no
                     more at present tell I heer from yu.
                  
                     —— ——.
                  
                  
                     
                     †
                        Some persons would consider this personal!
                  
               
               
                  No. 14.
                  
                     FRIEND BURNHAM:
                  
                  I have heard creditable accounts of thy poultry (of the Cochin-China variety), and I am induced from
                     common rumor to believe thee a man who dealeth justly and honorably. I desire
                     to procure a few of these choice fowls, if not too expensive; and will thank
                     thee to inform me what thy price is for such, at ages varying from four to
                     eight months old. Thy early reply will oblige thy friend and well-wisher,
                  
                     —— —— ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 15.
                  G. P. BURNHAM, ESQ.—DEAR SIR: Send me ten trios more of the Cochin-China
                     chickens, immediately. If you can put them down to $35 the trio,
                     now, it will leave me a better margin. All the others are sold, at $60 the
                     trio. Enclosed is draft on Bank of Commerce, Boston, for $400.
                  
                     In haste, yours,
                     —— ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 16.
                  
                     SIR—
                  
                  I want tu get sum coshin chiney aggs, them as will hatch out chickns with
                     fethers onto the leggs an no mistaik. if you got them kind yu can cend me wun
                     dusen an i will cen yu bak the munny wen the chickns is hached with fethers
                     onto there leggs not otherwise. If yu dont like tu cend them on this turms yu
                     can keepe 'em yureself. I bort too duzsen eg in bostun an their wasnt none of
                     em had no fethers on the leg, i mene the chick'ns, wen tha was hached. an I
                     dont expek i shall be fuled no mor by no such humbugg by a good dele. i pade my
                     munny for genwine aigs and I donte see no reesun wy peeple isn't onnest. How
                     could i tell wether their was chickns in the egs or not? of course i cou'dn't.
                     and i doant consider sech bissiness no bettern than cheetin rite out. i bort em
                        twict this wa, an i sharnt be fuled agin arter waitin as I did
                     both times over three weeks. ef yu will plese to sen me the pure aigs abuv
                     menciond and wate tell tha hach fether leggs chickns, well an good. ive no dout
                     yu air a onnest man, cos all the noospapers pufs yu. But sum of the hen
                     traiders aint no better than thaid oughter be—that's my
                        pinion.*
                     
                  
                  
                     Yours &c. etc.
                     —— ——.
                  
                  
                     
                     *I would liked to have seen the dealer that could "fule" this customer
                        more than "twict."
                  
               
               
                  No. 17.
                  
                     MR. P. B. BURNUM; Sur,
                  
                  If you hav enny of them big Cokin Shiney fowl, that eat off tops of flour
                     barils, I want sum. I gut a big nufoulan dogg that ways hard onto 140 pouns,
                     and I want tu cell him, an git sum of them Cokin Shinys. This dogg is a gud
                     dogg and dont eat much. I feed him on fish and hoggs hasslits and it dont cost
                     much to keep him. He bitt a pedler's arm most off yisterday, but he woudnt be
                     much trubble to you, if you kep him chaind all the time sose he
                     couldnt bite nobody. If you will rite me what you ask for yure fowls, I will
                     inform you what I ask for my dog. I dont want none nless thay can eat off tops
                     of flour barrils, of course. Them 's
                     the kind for me.*
                      Anser by return mail.
                  
                     ours Resp'y,
                     —— ——.
                  
                  
                     
                     *I informed this purchaser that I could send him a pair which, if they
                        "could n't eat off the tops" of his flour-barrels, I 'd warrant would eat
                        up the contents of one as quickly as he could desire!
                  
               
               
                  No. 18.
                  
                     G. P. BURNHAM, ESQ.:
                  
                  I have got a Shanghae cock weighing 15½ pounds, and I want a few hens to match
                     him. Can you supply me? My crower stands three feet four inches high, and his
                     middle toe measures 7½ inches in length. What do you think of that? I want six
                     twelve-pound hens. Dr. Bennett can supply me, I presume; but I want
                        pure-bred stock. I have no doubt my crower will weigh eighteen
                     or nineteen pounds, at two years old; he is now only eight months old! Let me
                     hear from you.
                  
                     Resp'y,
                     —— — ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 19.
                  
                     MR. BURNHAM:
                  
                  I always took you to be a man of honor, and I supposed you knew
                     (if anybody did) what a Cochin-China fowl was, because you imported your stock.
                     Now, those you sent me, and for which I willingly paid you $40 for the three,
                     are feathered on the legs; this should not be, of course. How is
                     this? They are fine, but I am certain they can be nothing but mere Shanghae
                     fowls. Let me know about this, will you?
                  
                     Yours, &c.
                     —— — ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 20.
                  
                     MY DEAR SIR:
                  
                  I hardly know what to write you about the stock I had of you, six months ago,
                     for "Cochin-Chinas." That they are not Cochins I feel positive,
                     however; for one half the chickens came smooth-legged, and the rest are
                     heavily-feathered on the legs!! I consider them only Shanghaes,
                     and now I want to know if you can send me a trio of pure bloods,
                     that you know to be Cochins. If so, I care nothing about price. I
                     want blood. "Blood tells," you know. Let me hear from you, and
                     state your own views in this matter. I will be governed by your advice.
                     Enclosed is ten dollars for a dozen of your "Cochin" eggs—pure,
                     you know.
                  
                     In haste,
                     Yours truly,
                     —— ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 21.
                  
                     MR. BURNHAM.
                  
                  SIR: Do you call yourself a man of honor? I bought one doz. Cochin-China eggs
                     of you, for which I paid you six dollars, cash. I set them, and I got but
                        ten chickens out of them (two eggs I found rotten, in the
                     nest). Every one of these chicks are cocks, sir—cocks! Now, what
                     the devil can I do, do you imagine, with ten cocks? I want to
                     breed fowls. That is what I bought the eggs for; to begin right.
                     You must have known better than this. Anybody could have seen that
                     these were all male eggs.
                        I saw it, at once (I remember), but I hoped I was
                     mistaken. What do you propose to do about this? Let me know, at
                        once, without fail.
                  
                     In haste,
                     —— ——.
                  
               
               
                  No. 22.
                  
                     SIR: You may think well of the Cochin-China fowls,—I don't.
                        Those you sent me are long-legged, and there are no feathers on their legs,
                        or feet, as there ought to be. I know what a
                        Cochin-China fowl is, too well to be deceived in this way. I will keep them.
                           You are a humbug. You are welcome to the thirty dollars I
                        paid you. I don't ask you to return it. I don't want it. I can get along
                        very well without it. You need it. Keep it. Much good may it do you!
                     
                        In haste,
                        —— ——.
                     
                  
                  
                     P. S. Don't you wish you may get another $30 out of me, that way? O, yes—I
                        guess you will—ha! ha!
                  
               
               
                  No. 23.
                  MR. BARMAN. Dear Sir: I see in the Poultry Books that the Cotchin-China fowls
                     lays two eggs every day,*
                      and sometimes three a-day. I have hens that lays two eggs a-day,
                     frequenly, but I want to get the breed that will lay three eggs
                     a-day, reglar. If you have got anny of the Cotchins that you know
                     lays three eggs a-day, I would like to get a few, at a fair price. I don't pay
                     no fancy prices for 'em, though. The hen fever won't larst forever, I don't
                     believe; and then when its busted up, what's the fowls good for, even if they
                        do lay three eggs a-day? Let me hear from you;—but don't send
                     any fowls unless you are sure they lay three eggs every day!
                  
                     Yours, &c.,
                     —— ——.
                  
                  
                     
                     *"This gigantic bird," says Richardson, a noted English writer, "is very
                        prolific, frequently laying two, and occasionally three eggs on the
                           same day!" And, in support of this monstrous assertion, he
                        subsequently refers, as his authority for this statement (which was
                        called in question), to the "Rt. Hon. Mr. Shaw, Recorder of Dublin, to
                        Mr. Walters, Her Majesty's poultry-keeper, and to J. Joseph Nolan, Esq.,
                        of Dublin." This was, in my opinion, one of the hums of the
                        time, and I never had occasion to change that opinion. I do not believe
                        the hen that really laid two eggs in one day ever lived to
                        do it a second time! I have heard of this thing, however.
                        But I never knew of the instance, myself.
                  
               
               
                  No. 24.
                  
                     MR. BURNHAM.—SIR: I am a gentleman, and I have no disposition to be
                        fractious. I sent you twelve dollars, in a letter, for a dozen "Cotchin"
                        eggs, and I set them. After waiting twenty-three days, I found two
                        grizzled-colored chickens in the nest yesterday, both of them with huge
                           top-knots on their polls! What does this mean? Am I to be
                        swindled out of my money thus? By return of mail if you do not refund my
                        money, if I live I will prosecute
                        you, if it costs me a thousand dollars. You may rely on this. I am not a man
                        to be trifled with, and I refer you to Messrs. —— & ——, who know me; you
                        evidently do not!
                     
                     
                        In haste,
                        —— ——
                     
                  
                  
                     [I did not reply to this spicy favor, because, if the gentleman really was
                        not a "fractious" man, I imagined he would like his pure-bred chickens
                        better as they grew up; and, besides, I could afford to wait for "a
                        gentleman" to cool off. I never heard from him, afterwards; and concluded
                        that he did n't live to carry out his laudable intention of
                        expending a thousand dollars in prosecuting me! I trust that, before he
                        departed, he became hopefully pious. Peace to his manes!]
                  
               
               
                  No. 25.
                  
                     SIR: Them fouls you sent me, got the sore-hed. I gin em tuppentyn and unyuns
                        and brandy, but it want no use. The poletry books sed so, and I follered the
                        direction, and it killed 'em both deader'n thunder, in one
                           night! Now you've gut my mony, and I haint narry fowls. What'll I
                        do? Don't you think this a pooty impersition? Send me another pear, to
                        once—if you don't want fits.
                     
                     
                        In haist,
                        —— ——.
                     
                  
                  
                     [I sent this man "another pear,"—only I did n't!]
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE OTHER SIDE OF THE QUESTION.
               THE foregoing are only a very few samples of hundreds upon hundreds of similar
                  letters I constantly received, for nearly five years.
               All the blame occasioned by careless express-men, of false blood imposed upon me
                  originally, of tardy hens, of the hatching or non-hatching of eggs transported
                  hundreds of miles, of feathered legs upon chickens, or the absence of them, of
                  every species of mishap that could by any possibility befall the fancier and
                  amateur, through his own ignorance or errors,—every kind of mistake was charged to
                     me! But, with a Christian meekness, I bore it all.
               I was threatened with civil prosecutions, with the House of Correction, the State
                  Prison, the Penitentiary, and all sorts of other punishments, for my remissness;
                  but I submitted with a quiet resignation, because "the people" were so deeply
                  engaged in this pursuit, and everybody now had the fever so shockingly, that I
                  sympathized with all mankind, and attributed these trifling ebullitions of
                  ill-will, or raving, to the spasms caused
                  by the prevalence and the severity of the epidemic.
               On the other hand, I was so often cheered on in my labors of love by the kind
                  consideration of a very different sort of patrons, that I did not sink under the
                  persecution of those who would gladly have floored me, could the thing have been
                  readily accomplished. I pocketed the money of my customers, however, bred good
                  fowls, followed up the trade sharply, and found myself sailing easily along, in
                  spite of the contemptible and small-fry opposition of which I was continually the
                  object. As an agreeable offset to the complaints and murmurings in certain
                  quarters, the following few letters will tell their own story:
               
                  From Hon. Henry Clay.
                  
                     Ashland, 1851.
                     GEO. P. BURNHAM, ESQ., BOSTON.
                  
                  MY DEAR SIR: I duly received your obliging letter, informing me that you had
                     sent by the Express of Messrs. Adams & Co. a cage containing four fowls for
                     me, and I postponed acknowledging it until the fate of the fowls should be
                     ascertained. I have now the satisfaction to advise you that they all reached
                     here safely.
                  They have been greatly admired, not only for their enormous size, but for their
                     fine proportions and beautiful plumage. I thank you, my dear sir, most
                     cordially, for this very acceptable present. It has been my aim, for many
                     years, to collect at this place the best improved breeds of the horse, the cow,
                     the sheep, swine and the ass—though the last, not the least valuable, in this
                     mule-raising state.
                  To my stock on hand your splendid Cochin-China fowls will be a congenial and
                     valuable addition; and, if we succeed with them, I will take care not to
                     monopolize the benefit of them. I am greatly obliged to you, and,
                  
                     With high respect, I am
                     Your obd't servant,
                     H. CLAY.
                  
               
               
                  From Gov. Geo. N. Briggs.
                  
                     Pittsfield, 1851.
                     MY DEAR SIR:
                  
                  The cage of Cochin-China chickens you were kind enough to send, reached me in
                     safety; and I am much obliged to you for this favor.
                  They are, beyond comparison, the finest domestic fowls I have ever seen, and I
                     shall breed them with such care that I hope to be able to give you a good
                     account of them in the future.
                  They are very much liked by all who have seen them, and you will please accept
                     my thanks for your attention.
                  
                     I am, resp'y, yours,
                     GEO. N. BRIGGS.
                  
               
               
                  
                  From Hon. Daniel Webster.
                  
                     Marshfield 1851.
                     G. P. BURNHAM, ESQ.
                  
                  DEAR SIR: The coop of chickens arrived safely, and are noble specimens of the
                     Chinese fowl. You will rarely meet with samples apparently so well bred, and
                     they will do any one credit. I thank you for the consignment, and consider them
                     a most valuable addition to my stock of poultry. Accept my best wishes, and
                     believe me, dear sir,
                  
                     Yours, very truly,
                     DANIEL WEBSTER.
                  
               
               
                  From Hon. Col. Phipps, H. B. M. Secretary.
                  
                     
                        Windsor Castle, Eng., 1853.
                        DEAR SIR:
                     
                     The cage of Grey Shanghae fowls intended as a present from you to Her
                        Majesty the Queen has this day been received from Mr. Mitchell, of the
                        Zoological Gardens, and they have been highly admired by Her Majesty.
                     I have received Her Majesty's commands to assure Mr. Burnham of her high
                        appreciation of his attention; and to add that it affords another addition
                        to the many marks of good will from the citizens of the United States which
                        the Queen has received, and to which Her Majesty attaches so high a value. I
                        have the honor to be
                     
                        Your ob't and humble ser't,
                        C. B. PHIPPS.
                     
                  
                  
                     Similar documents were often received by me, from friends and customers who
                        knew how to appreciate good stock; and I have now hundreds of letters on
                        file, of the most flattering character,—from every State in the
                        Union, from England, Ireland, France, Bavaria, etc., where my stock was
                        sent, and was roundly paid for,—all of which letters (with their enclosures,
                        from time to time) served amply to "balance accounts" against the few
                        received of an opposite character, and aided materially, also, to keep "the
                        subscriber" from caving in!
                     Among the most friendly customers I ever had, and those who bought the most
                        liberally,—while they were the most kindly in all their intercourse with
                        me,—I must mention my patrons of the South generally, but especially the
                        buyers in New Orleans and its vicinity. I never met with a trickster amongst
                        them, and they paid me thousands upon thousands of dollars, without a word
                        of cavil or complaint, from first to last. These fanciers had long purses,
                        and are live men, with hearts "as big as a barn," so far as my
                        experience goes.
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               "BOTHER'EM POOTRUMS." BUBBLE NUMBER TWO.
               THERE was something tangible, and real, in the "Cochin-China"
                  fowl,—something that could be seen and realized (precious little, to be sure!),
                  but still there was something. The Cochin-China hens would lay eggs
                  (occasionally), and when they did n't breed their chickens with feathers upon the
                  legs, they came without them. If the legs were not black or green skinned, they
                  were either yellow or some other color. Their plumage was either
                  spotted and speckled, or it was n't. And thus the true article, the
                     pure-bred Cochins, could always be designated and identified,—by
                  the knowing ones,—I presume. I studied them pretty carefully,
                  however, for five years; but I never knew what a "Cochin-China" fowl
                  really was, yet!
               But when, in 1850 and '51, the "Bother'ems" begun to be brought into
                  notice, I saw at once that, although this was bubble number two, it ought to have
                  been number one, decidedly.
               Never was a grosser hum promulgated than this was, from beginning to end, even in
                  the notorious hum of the hen-trade. There was absolutely nothing whatever in it,
                  about it, or connected with it, that possessed the first shade of substance to
                  recommend it, saving its name. And this could not have saved it, but
                  from the fact that nobody (not even the originator of the unpronounceable cognomen
                  himself) was ever able to write or spell it twice in the same manner.
               The variety of fowl itself was the Grey Chittagong, to which allusion
                  has already been made, and the first samples of which I obtained from
                  "Asa Rugg" (Dr. Kerr), of Philadelphia, in 1850. Of this no one now entertains a
                  doubt. They were the identical fowl, all over,—size, plumage and
                  characteristics.
               But my friend the Doctor wanted to put forth something that would take better than
                  his "Plymouth Rocks;" and so he consulted me as to a name for a brace of
                     grey fowls I saw in his yard. I always objected to the multiplying
                  of titles; but he insisted, and finally entered them at our Fitchburg Dépôt Show
                  as "Burrampooters," all the way from India.
               These three fowls were bred from Asa Rugg's Grey Chittagong cock, with a yellow
                  Shanghae hen, in Plymouth, Mass. They were an evident cross, all three of them
                  having a top-knot! But, n'importe.
                  They were then "Burrampooters."
               
               Subsequently, these fowls came to be called "Burampootras," "Burram Putras,"
                  "Brama-pooters," "Brahmas," "Brama Puters," "Brama Poutras," and at last "Brahma
                  Pootras." In the mean time, they were advertised to be exhibited at various fairs
                  in different parts of the country under the above changes of title, varied in
                  certain instances as follows: "Burma Porters," "Bahama Paduas," "Bohemia Prudas,"
                  "Bahama Pudras." And, for these three last named, prizes were
                  actually offered at a Maryland fair, in 1851!
               The following capital sketch (which appeared originally in the Boston
                     Carpet-Bag) is from the pen of the late Secretary of the Mutual
                  Admiration Society,—a gentleman, and a very happy writer in his way. It gives a
                  faithful and accurate description of what many of these monsters really were, and
                  will be read with gusto by all who have now come to be "posted up" in the secrets
                  of the hen-trade.
               The editor of the above-named journal remarks that "as our
                     Carpet-Bag contains something connected with everything under
                  the sun, we have abstracted therefrom a chapter on chicken-craft, which embraces a
                  very important detail of that most abstruse science. When our readers scan the
                  beautiful proportions of the stately fowl that roosts at the head of
                  this article, they will acknowledge that we have some right to cackle
                  because of the good fortune we have had in securing such an
                  uneggsceptionable picture, exhibiting the very perfection of
                  cockadoodledom. Is n't he a beauty, this BOTHER'EM POOTRUM? 
               
               "Examine his altitude! Observe the bold courage that stands forth in his every
                  lineament! There is no dunghill bravery there! See what symmetry floats round
                  every detail of his noble proportions! What kingly grace associates with the comb
                  that adorns his head as it were a crown! What fire there is in his eye! With what
                  proud bearing does he not wear his
                  abbreviated posterior appendage! Looking at the latter, we, and every one knowing
                  in hen-craft, will readily exclaim, 'Gerenau de Montbeillard! you must have been a
                  most unmitigated muff to designate that beautiful fowl the gallus ecaudatus, or tailless rooster.' For ourselves,
                  our indignity teaches us to say, 'Mons. M.! your Essai sur Historie Nat. des
                  Gallinacæ Fran. tom. ii., pp. 550 et 656, is a humbug!' We know that the universal
                  world will sympathize in our sentiment on this point."
               Peter Snooks, Esq. (a correspondent of this journal), it appears, had the honor to
                  be the fortunate possessor of this invaluable variety of fancy poultry, in its
                  unadulterated purity of blood. He furnished from his own yard samples of this rare
                  and desirable stock for His Royal Highness Prince Albert, and also sent samples to
                  several other noted potentates, whose taste was acknowledged to be unquestionable,
                  including the King of Roratonga, the Rajah of Gabblesquash, His Majesty of the
                  Cannibal Islands, and the Mosquito King. Peter supplies the annexed description of
                  the superior properties of this variety of fowls:
               "The Bother'em Pootrums are generally hatched from eggs. The original
                  pair were not; they were sent from India, by way of Nantucket, in a
                  whale-ship.
               "They are a singularly pictur-squee fowl from the very shell. Imagine
                  a crate-full of lean, plucked chickens, taking leg-bail for their liberty, and
                  persevering around Faneuil Hall at the rate of five miles an hour, and you have an
                  idea of their extremely ornamental appearance.
               "They are remarkable for producing bone, and as remarkable for producing offal. I
                  have had one analyzed lately by a celebrated chemist, with the following result: 
                     
                        Feathers and offal,
                        39.00
                     
                     
                        Bony substances,
                        50.00
                     
                     
                        Very tough muscle and sinew,
                        09.00
                     
                     
                        Miscellaneous residuum,
                        02.00
                     
                     
                        
                        100.00"
                     
                  
               
               A peculiarly well-developed faculty in this extraordinary fine breed of domestic
                  fowls is that of eating. "A tolerably well-fed Bother'em will dispose
                  of as much corn as a common horse," insists Mr. S——. This goes beyond
                     me; for I have found that they could be kept on the allowance,
                  ordinarily, that I appropriated daily to the same number of good-sized store hogs.
                  As to affording them all they would eat, I never did that. O, no! I
                  am pretty well off, pecuniarily, but not rich enough to attempt any such
                  fool-hardy experiment as that!
               But Snooks is correct about one thing. They are not fastidious or "particular
                  about what they eat." Whatever is portable to them is adapted to
                  their taste for devouring. Old hats, India-rubbers, boots and shoes, or stray
                  socks, are not out-of-the-way fare with
                  them. They are amazingly fond of corn, especially a good deal of it.
                  They will eat wheaten bread, rather than want.
               They are very inquisitive in their nature. Their habit of stalking around the
                  dwelling-house, and popping their heads into the garret-windows, is evidence of
                  this peculiar trait.
               Their flesh is firm and compact, and requires a great deal of eating to do it
                  justice. Like Barney Bradley's leather "O-no-we-never-mention-'ems," when cut up
                  and stewed for tripe, "a fellow could eat a whole bushel of potatoes to the
                  plateful." It is of the color of a stale red herring, and very much like that
                  edible in taste. Its scarcity constitutes its value.
               This rara avis in terris grows to a height
                  somewhere between .00 feet .16 inches and 25 feet. Its weight somewhat between .06
                  pounds and 1 cwt. It never lays, except when it rolls itself in the sand. The
                  female fowls sometimes do that duty, though amazingly seldom.
               Mr. Snooks says he will back his Bother'em, for a chicken-feast, to outcrow any
                  three asthmatical steam-whistles that any railroad company can scare up; and adds,
                  "I am ashamed of the prejudice which makes my fellow-men unjust. The Fowl
                  Society—the New England organization, I mean—repudiate the special merits of my
                     Bother'em
                  Pootrums, and tell me that their ideas of improvement go entirely
                  contrary to the propriety of tolerating my noble breed of fowls. Disgustibus non disputandum, as Shakspeare, or
                  somebody for him, emphatically says,—which means, 'Every one to his taste, as the
                  old lady said when she kissed the cow.' One thing it will not be hard to prove, I
                  think; that is, simply the probability of something like envy operating among the
                  members of the Hen Society, on account of the exclusive attention paid my
                     Bother'ems at the late Fowl Fairs in Boston,"—where the 'squire's
                  contributions did rather "astonish the boys" who were not thoroughly
                  acquainted with the excellent qualities of these birds. Verily, Snooks'
                  "Bother'ems" did bother'em exceedingly!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               ADVERTISING EXTRAORDINARY.
               FROM the outset of my experience in the final attack of the hen fever, I took
                  advantage of every possible opportunity to disseminate the now world-wide known
                  fact that nobody else but myself possessed any "pure-bred" poultry! I could have
                  proved this by the affidavits of more than a thousand "disinterested witnesses,"
                  at any time after April and May, 1851, had I been called upon so to do. But as no
                  one doubted this, there was then no controversy.
               But, as time wore along, competition became rife, and the foremost chicken-raisers
                  began to look about them for the readiest means obtainable with which to cut each
                  other's throats; not "with a feather," by any means, because that would have
                  "smelt of the shop;" but whenever, wherever, or however, their neighbors could be
                  traduced, maligned, vilified, or injured (in this pursuit), they embraced the
                  opportunity, and followed it up, without stint, especially towards my humble self,
                  until most of them, fortunately, broke their own backs, and were compelled to
                  retire from the field, while "the people" grinned, and comforted them with the
                  friendly assurance that it "sarved'em right."
               At the Fitchburg Dépôt Show, in 1850, my original "Grey Chittagongs" (already
                  described) were in the possession of G. W. George, Esq., of Haverhill, to whom
                  they had been sold by the party to whom I had previously sold them. Nobody thought
                  well of them; but they took a first prize there, and the "Chittagongs" (so entered
                  at the same time) of Mr. Hatch, of Connecticut, also took a prize. My friend the
                  Doctor then insisted that these were also "Burrampooters;" but, as
                  nobody but himself could pronounce this jaw-cracking name, it was taken little
                  notice of at that time.
               Mr. Hatch had a large quantity of the Greys at this show, which sold readily at
                  $12 to $20 the pair; and immediately after this exhibition the demand for "Grey
                  Chittagongs" was very active. I watched the current of the stream, and I beheld
                  with earnest sympathy the now alarming symptoms of the fever. "The people" had
                  suffered a relapse in the disease, and the ravages now promised to become
                  frightful—for a time!
               An ambitious sea-captain arrived at New York from Shanghae, bringing with him
                  about a hundred China fowls, of all colors, grades, and proportions. Out of this
                  lot I selected a few grey birds, that were very large, and (con- sequently) "very fine," of course. I
                  bred these, with other grey stock I had, at once, and soon had a fine lot of birds
                  to dispose of—to which I gave what I have always deemed their only true and
                  appropriate title (as they came from Shanghae), to wit, Grey
                     Shanghaes.
               
               In 1851 and '52 I had a most excellent "run of luck" with these birds. I
                  distributed them all over the country, and obtained very fair prices for them;
                  and, finally, the idea occurred to me that a present of a few of the choicest of
                  these birds to the Queen of England wouldn't prove a very bad advertisement for me
                  in this line. I had already reaped the full benefit accruing from this sort of
                  "disinterested generosity" on my part, toward certain American
                  notables (whose letters have already been read in these pages), and I put my
                  newly-conceived plan into execution forthwith.
               I then had on hand a fine lot of fowls, bred from my "imported" stock, which had
                  been so much admired, and I selected from my best "Grey Shanghae" chickens nine
                  beautiful birds. They were placed in a very handsome black-walnut-framed cage, and
                  after having been duly lauded by several first-rate notices in the Boston and New
                  York papers, they were duly shipped, through Edwards, Sanford & Co.'s
                  Transatlantic Express, across the big pond, addressed in purple and gold as follows:
                     TO H. M. G. MAJESTY, Victoria, QUEEN OF GREAT BRITAIN. To be
                        Delivered at Zoological Gardens, LONDON, ENG. FROM GEO. P.
                        BURNHAM, BOSTON, MASS., U.S.A.
                  
               
               The fowls left me in December, 1852. The London Illustrated News of
                  January 22d, 1853, contained the following article in reference to this
                  consignment:
               
                  "By the last steamer from the United States, a cage of very choice domestic
                     fowls was brought to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, a present from George P.
                     Burnham, Esq., of Boston, Mass. The consignment embraced nine beautiful
                     birds—two males and seven pullets, bred from stock imported by Mr. Burnham
                     direct from China. The fowls are seven and eight months old, but are of mammoth
                     proportions and exquisite plumage—light silvery-grey bodies, approaching white,
                     delicately traced and pencilled with black upon the neck-hackles and tips of
                     the wings and tails. The parent stock of these extraordinary fowls weigh at
                     maturity upwards of twenty-three pounds per pair; while their form,
                     notwithstanding this great weight, is unexceptionable. They possess all the
                     rotundity and beauty of the Dorking fowl; and, at the same age, nearly double
                     the weight of the latter. They are denominated Grey Shanghaes (in
                     contradistinction to the Red or Yellow Shanghaes), and are considered in
                     America the finest of all the great Chinese varieties. That they are a
                        distinct race, is evident from the accuracy with which they
                     
                     breed, and the very close similarity that is shown amongst them; the
                        whole of these birds being almost precisely alike, in form, plumage and
                        general characteristics. They are said to be the most prolific of all
                     the Chinese fowls. At the time of their shipment, these birds weighed about
                     twenty pounds the pair."
               
               This was a very good beginning. In another place (see page 88) I have
                  given a copy of the letter from Hon. Col. Phipps, her Majesty's Secretary of the
                  Privy Purse, acknowledging the receipt of this present. A few weeks afterward, the
                     London News contained a spirited original picture of seven of
                  the nine Grey Shanghae fowls which I had the honor to forward to Queen Victoria.
                  The drawing was made by permission of the Queen, at the royal poultry-house, from
                  life, by the celebrated Weir, and the engraving was admirably
                  executed by Smythe, of London. The effect in the picture was capital,
                  and the likenesses very truthful. In reference to these birds, the
                     News has the following:
               
                  "GREY SHANGHAE FOWLS FOR HER MAJESTY.—In the London Illustrated
                        News for January 22d, we described a cage of very choice domestic
                     fowls, bred from stock imported by Mr. George P. Burnham, of Boston, Mass.,
                     direct from China, and presented by him to Her Majesty. We now engrave, by
                     permission, these beautiful birds. They very closely resemble the breed of
                        Cochin-Chinas already introduced into this country, the head
                     and neck being the same; the legs are yellow and feathered; the carriage very
                     similar, but the tail being more upright than in the gener- ality of Cochins.
                     The color is creamy white, slightly splashed with light straw-color, with the
                     exception of the tail, which is black, and the hackles, which are pencilled
                     with black. The egg is the same color and form as that of the Cochins hitherto
                     naturalized in this country. These fowls are very good layers, and have been
                     supplying the royal table since their reception at the poultry-house, at
                     Windsor."
               
               All this "helped the cause along" amazingly. It proved a most excellent mode of
                  advertising my "superb," "magnificent," "splendid," "unsurpassable,"
                  "inapproachable" GREY SHANGHAES.
               The above articles found their way (somehow or other) into the papers of this
                  country immediately; and, within sixty days afterwards, the price of "Bother'ems"
                  went up from $12 and $15 to $50, $75, $100, and $150, the pair!!
               "Cochin-Chinas" were now nowhar! But I was so as to be
                  about yet.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               HEIGHT OF THE FEVER.
               WHILE this cage of Grey Shanghaes stood for an hour or two in the express-office
                  of Adams & Co., in Boston, a servant came from the Revere House to inform me
                  that "a gentleman desired to see me there, about some poultry."
               As I never had had occasion to run round much after my customers, and, moreover,
                  as I felt that the dignity of the business—(the dignity of the
                  hen-trade!)—might possibly be compromised by my responding in person to this
                  summons, I directed the servant to "say to the gentleman, if he wished to see me,
                  that I should be at my office, No. 26 Washington-street, for a couple of
                  hours,—after that, at my residence in Melrose."
               The man retired, and half an hour afterwards a carriage stopped before my
                  office-door. The gentleman was inside. He invited me to ride with him—(I could
                  afford to ride with him)—to Adams & Co.'s office. He had seen the
                  "Grey Shanghaes" intended for the Queen there.
               "I want that cage of fowls," he said.
               "My dear sir," I replied, "they are going to England."
               "I want them. What will you take for them?"
               "I can't sell them, sir."
               "You can send others, you know."
               "No, sir. I can't dispose of these, surely."
               "Can you duplicate this lot?"
               "Pretty nearly—perhaps not quite."
               "I see," he continued. "I will give you two hundred dollars for them."
               "No, sir."
               "Three hundred—come!"
               "I can't sell them."
               "Will you take four hundred dollars for the nine chickens, sir?" he
                  asked, drawing his pocket-book in presence of a dozen witnesses.
               I declined, of course. I could n't sell these identical fowls; for I had an object
                  in view, in sending them abroad, which appeared to me of more consequence than the
                  amount offered—a good deal.
               "Will you name a price for them?" insisted the stranger.
               I said, "No, sir—excuse me. I would not take a thousand dollars for these birds, I
                  assure you. Their equals in quality and number do not live, I think, to-day, in
                  America!"
               "I won't give a—a—thousand dollars, for them," he said, slowly. "No, I won't give that!"
                  and we parted. Yet, I have no doubt, had I encouraged him with a prospect of his
                  obtaining them at all, he would have given me a thousand dollars for
                  that very cage of fowls! To this extent did the hen fever rage at
                  that moment.
               I subsequently sent this gentleman two trios of my grey chickens, for which he
                  paid me $200.
               And now the Grey Shanghae trade commenced in earnest. Immediately
                  after the announcements were made (which I have quoted) orders poured in upon me
                  furiously from all quarters of this country, and from Great Britain. Not a steamer
                  left America for England, for months and months, on board of which I did not send
                  more or less of the "Grey Shanghaes." From every State in the Union, my orders
                  were large and numerous; and letters like the following were received by me almost
                  every day, for months:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "G. P. BURNHAM.
                           
                           "SIR: I have just seen the pair of superb Grey Shanghae fowls which
                              you sent to Mr.—— ——, of this city, and I want a pair like them. If
                              you can send me better ones, I am willing to pay higher
                              for them. He informs me that your price per pair is forty dollars. I
                              enclose you fifty dollars; do the best you can for me,
                              but forward them at once,—don't delay. Yours,
                              &c.,
                           
                              "—— —— ——."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I almost always had "better ones." That was the kind I always kept
                  behind, or for my own use. I rarely sent away these better ones until they cried
                  for 'em! I always had a great many of the "best" ones, too; which
                  were even better than those "better" ones for which the demand had come to be so
                  great!
               Strange to say, everybody got to want better ones, at last; and,
                  finally, I had none upon my premises but this very class of birds—to wit, the
                  "better ones." To be sure, I reserved a very few pairs of the
                     best ones, which could be obtained at a fair price; but these were
                  the ones that would "take down" the fanciers, occasionally, who wanted to beat
                     me with them at the first show that came off. But I did n't sleep
                  much over this business. I always had one cock and three or four hens that the
                  boys did n't see—until we got upon the show-ground. Ha, ha!
               A stranger called at my house, one Sunday morning, just as I was ready with my
                  family for church. He apologized for coming on that day, but could n't get away
                  during the week. He had never seen the Grey Shanghaes—didn't know what a Chinese
                  fowl was—had no idea about them at all. He wanted a few eggs—heard I had
                  them—would n't stop but a moment—saw that I was just going out, &c. &c. He
                  sat down—was sorry to trouble me—wouldn't do so again—would like just to take a
                  peep at the fowls—when, suddenly, as he
                  
                     "I DON'T WANT ANY EGGS—NO!"—(See page 109.)
                   sat with his back close to the open window, my old crower sent forth one
                  of those thundering, unearthly, rolling, guttural shrieks, that, once heard, can
                  never be forgotten!
               The stranger leaped from his chair, and sprang over his hat, as he yelled,
               "Good God! what's that?"
               His face was as white as his shirt-bosom.
               "That's one of the Grey Shanghaes, crowing," I replied.
               "Crow! I beg your pardon," he said; "I don't want any eggs—no! I'll
                  leave it to another time. I—a—I could n't take 'em now; won't detain
                  you—good-morning, sir," he continued; and, rushing out of my front door, he
                  disappeared on "a dead run," as fast as his legs could carry him. And I don't know
                  but he is running yet. He was desperately alarmed, surely!
               I was so amused at this incident, that I was in a precious poor mood to attend
                  church that morning. And when my friend the minister arose at length, and
                  announced for his text that "the wicked flee when no man pursueth," those words
                  capped the climax for me.
               I jammed my handkerchief into my mouth, until I was nearly suffocated, as I
                  thought of that wicked fellow who had just been so frightened while in the act of
                  attempting to bargain for fancy hen's eggs on the Sabbath!
               A Western paper, in alluding to the fever, about this period, observed that "this
                  modern epidemic has shown itself in our
                  vicinity within a short time, and is characterized by all the peculiarities which
                  have marked its ravages elsewhere. Some of our most valuable citizens are now
                  suffering from its attacks, and there is no little anxiety felt for their
                  recovery. The morning slumbers of our neighbors are interrupted by the sonorous
                  and deep-toned notes of our Shanghae Chanticleer, and various have been the
                  inquiries as to how he took 'cold,' and what we gave him for it.
                  'Chittagongs' and 'Burma Porters' are now as learnedly discussed as 'Fancy Stocks'
                  on change.
               The N. Y. Scientific American stated, at this time, that the
                  "Cochin-China fowl fever was then as strong in England as in some parts of New
                  England,—in fact, stronger. One pair exhibited there was valued at $700. What a
                  sum for a hen and rooster! The common price of a pair is $100," added this
                  journal; and still the trade continued excellent with me.
               
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               RUNNING IT INTO THE GROUND.
               THERE now seemed to be no limit whatever to the prices that fanciers
                  would pay for what were deemed the best samples of fowls. For my own part, from
                  the very commencement I had been considerate and merciful in my
                  charges. True, I had been taken down handsomely by a Briton (in my original
                  purchase of Cochin-Chinas), but I did not retaliate. I was content with a fair
                  remuneration; my object, principally, was to disseminate good stock
                  among "the people," for I was a democrat, and loved the dear people.
               So I charged lightly for my "magnificent" samples, while other persons were
                  selling second and third rate stock for five or even six and eight dollars a pair.
                  The "Grey Shanghaes" had got to be a "fixed fact" in England, as well as in this
                  country, and still I was flooded with orders continually.
               I obtained $25, $50, $100 a pair, for mine; and one gentleman, who ordered four
                  greys, soon after the Queen's stock
                  reached England, paid me sixty guineas for them—$150 a pair. But
                  these were of the better class of birds to which I have alluded.
               In 1852 a Boston agricultural journal stated that "within three months extra
                  samples of two-year-old fowls, of the large Chinese varieties, have been sold in
                  Massachusetts at $100 the pair. Several pairs, within our own knowledge, have
                  commanded $50 a pair, within the past six months. Last week we saw a trio of White
                  Shanghaes sold in Boston for $45. And the best specimens of Shanghaes and
                  Cochin-China fowls now bring $20 to $25 a pair, readily, to purchasers at the
                  South and West."
               Now, these prices may be looked upon by the uninitiated as extraordinary. So they
                  were for this country. But at a Birmingham (Eng.) show, in the fall of 1852, a
                  single pair of "Seabright Bantams," very small and finely plumed, sold for $125; a
                  fine "Cochin-China" cock and two-hens, for $75; and a brace of "White Dorkings,"
                  at $40. An English breeder went to London, from over a hundred miles distant, for
                  the sole purpose of procuring a setting of Black Spanish eggs, and paid one dollar
                  for each egg. Another farmer there sent a long distance for the best Cochin-China
                  eggs, and paid one dollar and fifty cents each for them, at this
                  time!
               This was keeping up the rates with a vengeance, and beat us Yankees, out and out.
                  But later accounts from across the water showed that this was only a beginning,
                  even. In the winter of 1852 the Cottage Gardener stated that
                  "within the last few weeks a gentleman near London sold a pair of Cochin-China
                  fowls for 30 guineas ($150), and another pair for 32 guineas ($160). He has been
                  offered ¥20 for a single hen; has sold numerous eggs at 1 guinea ($5) each, and
                  has been paid down for chickens just hatched 12 guineas ($60) the half-dozen, to
                  be delivered at a month old. One amateur alone had paid upwards of ¥100 for stock
                  birds."
               To this paragraph in the Gardener the Bury and Norwich
                     Post added the following: "In our own neighborhood, during the past
                  week, we happen to know that a cock and two hens (Cochin-Chinas) have been sold
                  for 32 guineas, or $160. The fact is, choice birds, well bred, of good size and
                  handsome plumage, are now bringing very high prices, everywhere; and the demand
                  (in our own experience) has never been so great as at the present time."
               In this way the fever raved and raged for a long year or more. Shows were being
                  held all over this country, as well as in every principal city and town in
                  England. Everybody bought fowls, and everybody had to pay for them, too, in 1852
                  and 1853!
               In a notice of one of the English shows in that year (1853), a paper says: "There
                  is a pen of three geese weighing
                  forty-eight pounds; and among the Cochin-China birds are to be found
                  hens which, in the period that forms the usual boundary of chicken life, have
                  attained a weight of seven or eight pounds. Of the value of these birds it is
                  difficult to speak without calling forth expressions of incredulity. It is evident
                  that there is a desperate mania in
                  bird-fancying, as in other things. Thus, for example, there is a single fowl to
                  which is affixed the enormous money value of 30 guineas; two
                  Cochin-China birds are estimated at 25 guineas; and four other birds,
                  of the same breed, a cock and three hens, are rated in the aggregate at 60
                     guineas,—a price which the owner confidently expects them to
                  realize at the auction-sale on Thursday. A further illustration of this
                  ornithological enthusiasm is to be found in the fact that, at a sale on Wednesday
                  last, one hundred and two lots, comprising one hundred and ten Cochin-China birds,
                  all belonging to one lady, realized ¥369. 4s. 6d.; the highest price realized for
                  a single one being 20 guineas."
               Another British journal stated, a short time previously, that "a circumstance
                  occurred which proves that the Cochin-China mania has by no means diminished in
                  intensity. The last annual sale of the stock of Mr. Sturgeon, of Greys, has taken
                  place at the Baker-street Bazaar. The two hundred birds there disposed of could
                  not have realized a less sum than nearly ¥700 (or $3500), some of the single
                  specimens being knocked down at more than ¥12, and very many producing ¥4, ¥5, and
                  ¥6 each."
               The attention, at this sale, devoted to the pedigree of the birds, was amusing to
                  a mere observer; one fowl would be described as a cockerel by
                     Patriarch, another as a pullet by Jerry, whilst a
                  third was recommended as being the offspring of Sam. Had the sale
                  been one of horses, more care could hardly have been taken in describing their
                  pedigrees or their qualifications. Many were praised by the auctioneer as being
                  particularly clever birds, although in what their cleverness
                  consisted did not appear. The fancy had evidently extended to all
                  ranks in society. The peerage sent its representatives, who bought what they
                  wanted, regardless of price. Nor was the lower house without its delegates; a
                  well-known metropolitan ex-member seems to have changed his constituency of voters
                  for one of Cochins; and we can only hope that it may not be his duty to hold an
                  inquest on any that perish by a violent or unnatural death. The sums obtained for
                  these birds depended on their being in strict accordance with the then taste of
                  the fancy. They were magnificent in size, docile in behavior, intelligent in
                  expression, and most of them were very finely bred.
               And while the hen fever was thus at its height, almost, in England, we were
                  following close upon the footsteps of John Bull in the United States. At the
                  Boston Fowl Show in 1852, three
                  Cochin-Chinas were sold at $100; a pair of Grey Chittagongs, at $50; two Canton
                  Chinese fowls, at $80; three Grey Shanghae chicks, at $75; three White Shanghaes,
                  at $65; six White Shanghae chickens, $40 to $45, etc.; and these prices, for
                  similar samples, could have been obtained again and again.
               At this time there was found an ambitious individual, occasionally, who got "ahead
                  of his time," and whose laudable efforts to oustrip his neighbors were only
                  checked by the natural results of his own superior "progressive" notions. A case
                  in point:
               "Way down in Lou'siana," for instance, a correspondent of mine stated that there
                  lived one of these go-ahead fellows, who had been afflicted with a serious attack
                  of hen fever, and who was not content with the ordinary speed and prolificness in
                  breeding of the noted Shanghae fowls. He desired to possess himself of the biggest
                  kind of a pile of chickens for the rapidly augmenting trade; and so he had
                  constructed an Incubator, of moderate dimensions, into which he carefully stowed
                  only three hundred nice fresh eggs, from his fancy fowls.
               The secret of his plan to "astonish the boys" was limited to the knowledge of only
                  two or three friends; and—thermometer in hand—he commenced operations. With close
                  assiduity and Job-like patience, our amateur applied himself to his three weeks'
                  task, by day and night, and at the end of fifteen days, one egg was broken, and
                  Mr. Shanghae was thar,—alive and kicking, but as yet immature.
               The neighborhood was in the greatest excitement at this prospect of success. Our
                  friend commenced to crow (slightly), and, to hasten matters, put on a
                     leetle more steam at a venture. The twenty-second day arrived, and
                  the "boys" assembled to witness the entrée of
                  three hundred steam-hatched Shanghaes into this breathing world. Our amateur was
                  full of expectation and "fever." One egg was broken; another, and then another;
                  when, upon inspection, the entire mass was found to have been thoroughly
                     boiled!
               
               A desperate guffaw was heard as our amateur friend disappeared, and his only query
                  since has been to ascertain what actual time is required to boil a certain
                  quantity of eggs at a given heat, and the smallest probable cost thereof! As far
                  as heard from, the reply has been, say six gallons of good alcohol, at one dollar
                  per gallon, for three hundred eggs; time (night and day), twenty-two days and
                  seven hours; and the product it is generally thought would make capital fodder for
                  young turkeys,—provided said eggs are not boiled too hard!
               
               On the subject of the diseases of poultry many learned and sapient
                  dissertations appeared about these days. In one agricultural journal we remember
                  to have met with the fol- lowing
                  scientific prescription. The learned writer is talking about roup in
                  fowls, and says:
               "This is probably a chronic condition, the result of frequent colds. Give the
                  following medicines: Aconite, if there is fever, hepar-suliphuris third trituration, or mercury, third trituration,
                  for a day or two, once in three or four hours; then pulsatilla
                  tincture for the eyes; antimonium, third trituration or arsenic, or nux vomica, for the crop."
               Is n't this clear, reader? How many poultry-raisers in the United
                  States are there who would be likely to comprehend one line of this stuff? We
                  advise this writer to try again; the above is an "elegant extract," verily!
               We now come down to the fourth and last exhibition in Boston of the Mutual
                  Admiration Society, alias the Association with
                  the long-winded cognomen, which took place in September, 1852.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               ONE OF THE FINAL KICKS.
               I WAS chosen by somebody (who will here permit me to present them my thanks for
                  the honor) as one of the judges to decide upon the merits of the birds then to be
                  exhibited: and my colleagues on this Committee were Dr. J. C. Bennett, and Messrs.
                  Andrews, Balch and Fussell.
               On the morning of the opening of this show the names of the judges were first
                  announced to the contributors. Immediately there followed a "hullabaloo" that
                  would have done credit to any bedlam, ancient or modern, ever heard or dreamed of.
                  The lead in this burst of rebellion amongst the hitherto "faithful" was taken by
                  one prominent member, who announced publicly, then and there, that the selection
                  of the judges was an infamous imposition. They were incompetent, dishonest,
                  prejudiced, calculating, speculative, ambitious competitors. Moreover, that it had
                  all been "contrived by that damned Burnham, who would rob a church-yard, or steal
                  the cents off the eyes of his dead uncle, any time, for the price of a hen."
               
               These were the gentleman's own expressive words. He added that he could stand
                  anything in the hen-trade but this. This, however, he would
                     not submit to. Burnham should be kicked out of that Committee, or
                  he would kick himself out of his boots, and the Society's traces also;—a threat
                  which did not seem to alarm or disturb anybody, "as I knows on," except this same
                  tall, stout, athletic, brave, honorable, honest, truthful, smart, gentlemanly
                  member of this Mutual Admiration Society!
               Now, it was very well known, at this time, that the Committee of Judges had been
                  chosen entirely without their own knowledge. So far as I was myself concerned, I
                  should greatly have preferred at that time to have remained an outsider, because
                  it would have then been quite as well for me to have contributed to the
                  exhibition, where, with the "splendid specimens" I then possessed of the
                  Cochin-China and Shanghae varieties of fowl, I could have knocked all the others
                  "higher than a fence" in that show, as I had done in all the previous
                  exhibitions where I had ever competed with the boys.
               But the same power which had formed the Committee of Judges also provided that
                  they must not be competitors. Thus, three or four of those persons who had at the
                  previous exhibitions of this Society been the most extensive contributors,—men who
                  had bred by far the largest assortments and quantities of good fowls up to this
                  period, and who had till now paid ten or twenty dollars for one (compared with any
                  other of the members) toward the good of the association, and in the furtherance
                  of its objects,—these men were made the judges, and were cut off as
                  contributors. I was satisfied, however, because I saw that the framing of the
                     Report of this show would fall to my lot again; and I had no
                  doubt that, under these circumstances, I could afford to be "persecuted" for the
                  time being.
               It is not in my nature to harm anybody; and those who are personally acquainted
                  with me, know that I am constitutionally of a calm, retiring, meek,
                  religious turn of mind. My aim in life is to "do unto others as I would have
                  others do unto me." I "love my neighbor" (if he doesn't permit his hens to get
                  into my garden) "as myself." And, "if a man smite me upon one cheek, I turn to him
                  the other also," immediately, if not sooner. I never retaliate upon an enemy or an
                  opponent—until I make sure that I have him where the hair is short.
               
               I once knew of an extraordinary instance of patience that taught me a powerful
                  lesson in submissiveness. It occurred in a Western court, where the judge (a most
                  exemplary man, I remember) sat for two mortal days quietly listening to the
                  arguments of a couple of contending lawyers in reference to the construction they
                  desired him to assume in regard to a
                  certain act of the Legislature of that State. When the two legal gentlemen had
                  "thrown themselves," in this long and wearying debate, for forty-eight hours, his
                  Honor cut off the controversy by remarking, very quietly,
               "Gentlemen, this law that you have been speaking of has been
                     repealed!"
               I thought of this circumstance, and I permitted the hen-men to gas, to their
                  hearts' content. When they got through with their anathemas, their spleen, and
                  their stupidity, I informed them that the "Committee" had unanimously left to
                     my charge the writing of the Report of that Exhibition.
               
               From that moment, up to the hour when the Report was published, I never suspected
                  (before) that I had so many friends in this world!
               The fear that seemed to pervade every mind present was, that I should
                  probably do precisely what they would have done under similar
                  circumstances,—to wit, take care of myself.
               I had no fowls in this exhibition; but there were present numerous specimens bred
                  from my stock, that were very choice (so every one said), and which commanded the
                  highest prices during the show.
               There were several Southern gentlemen present, who bought (and paid
                  roundly for them, too) some of the best fancy-birds on sale. It was astonishing
                  how much some of those buyers did know about the different breeds of Chinese fowls
                  there! Yes, it certainly was astounding! I think I never saw before
                  so much real, downright bona fide knowledge of
                  henology displayed as was shown by one or two Southern gentlemen, then and
                  there;—never, in the whole course of my experience!
               By reference to the next chapter, it will be seen how shamefully I neglected my
                  own interests, and how self-sacrificing I was in the report of the Society's last
                  kick, which, as I have already hinted, the Committee left to my
                  charge to prepare.
               I had no disposition (in the preparation of this document) to underrate the stock
                  of any one else, provided it did not interfere with me! And, after
                  carefully noting down whatever seemed of importance to my well-being there, I sat
                  myself down to oblige the Committee by writing the "Report" of this show, which an
                  ill-natured competitor subsequently declared was "only in favor of Burnham and his
                  stock, all over, underneath, in the middle, outside, overhead, on top, on all
                  sides, and at both ends!"
               And I believe he was right!
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE FOURTH FOWL-SHOW IN BOSTON.
               THIS show (in September, 1852) was the fifth exhibition held in Boston, but the
                     fourth only of the Society with the long name.
               The Report commences with a congratulation (as usual) that the association still
                  lives, and has a being; and, after alluding to the general state of the affairs of
                  the concern,—without touching upon its financial condition,—it thus proceeds:
               "Your Committee would call your attention to the fact that among the numerous
                  fowls exhibited this season,—as upon former occasions,—a very unnecessary practice
                  seems to have obtained, in the mis-naming of varieties. Crossbred
                  fowls have been called by original cognomens, unknown to practical breeders; and a
                  host of birds well known to the Committee, as well as to poulterers generally,
                  have been denominated by any other than their real and universally
                  conceded ornithological titles. This savors of bad taste; it leads to ridicule
                  among strangers who visit our shows from abroad; and should not be sanctioned by
                  your Society. Errors may creep in among your transactions, in this particular, and
                  many honest, careful breeders may be deceived; but the multiplying of
                     unpronounceable and meaningless names for domestic fowls is
                  entirely uncalled for; and your committee recommend a close adherence, hereafter,
                  to recognized titles only.
               "In this connection, it may be proper to allude to a case in point. The largest
                  and unquestionably one of the finest varieties of domestic fowls ever shown among
                  us was entered by the breeders of this variety as the 'Chittagong;' other coops of
                  the same stock were labelled 'Grey Chittagongs;' others were called 'Bramah
                  Pootras;' and others, 'Grey Shanghae' and 'Malays.'
               "Your Committee are divided in opinion as to what these birds ought, rightfully,
                  to be called,—though the majority of the Committee have no idea that 'Bramah
                  Pootra' is their correct title. That they are not 'Malays' is also quite as clear.
                  Several of the specimens are positively known to have come direct from Shanghae;
                  and none are known to have come originally from anywhere else.
                  Nevertheless, it has been thought proper to leave this question open, for the
                  present; and the Committee, believing that this fowl originates in and hails
                  directly from the East, are content to accept for them the title of 'Grey
                  Shanghae,' 'Chittagong,' or 'Bramah Pootra,' as different breeders may elect,—admitting, at the same time,
                  that they are really a very superior bird, and believing that if carefully bred
                  they may be found decidedly the most valuable among all the large
                     Chinese breeds, of which they are clearly a good variety."
               
               "A large sum of money was expended at this exhibition, by visitors, amateurs and
                  breeders,—one gentleman investing upwards of $700 in choice fowls; another, from
                  the South, purchasing to the amount of $350 for extra samples; another bought $200
                  worth, etc. The highest figures ever yet paid on this side of the Atlantic (for
                  individual purchases) were realized at this show.
               "Samples of the China stock originally imported from Shanghae were very plentiful
                  on this occasion, and the high reputation of this blood was fully sustained in the
                  specimens exhibited. Very superior fowls, bred from G. P. Burnham's importations
                  of Cochin-Chinas, were also numerous, and were sold, in four or five instances, at
                  the very highest prices paid for any samples that were disposed
                  of."
               Among the premiums awarded to the Chinese fowls by this "Committee,"
                  were the following:
               "CHINA FOWLS.—To H. H. Williams, best cock and two hens (of Burnham's
                     Canton importation), $5. To C. Sampson, West Roxbury, best cock
                  and single hen (Burnham's Canton importation), $3. To H. H. Williams,
                  third prize, for same stock, $2. To C. C. Plaisted, Great Falls, N. H., the
                  Committee awarded a first prize, $5, for what he called 'Hong-Kong'
                  fowls; these were of Burnham's Canton stock, also. To A. White, E.
                  Randolph, for six best chickens (Burnham's importation), $2.
               "COCHIN-CHINA.—To H. H. Williams, West Roxbury, best cock and two hens (splendid
                  samples, of extraordinary size and beauty), first prize, $5. To A. White, E.
                  Randolph, best cock and single hen (of Burnham's importation), $3. To A. White,
                  for six best chickens (Burnham's importation), $2."
               
               The Committee then allude to the prices which were paid there for
                  fowls, "not because they advocate the propriety of keeping them up"
                  (O, no!), "but rather to show that the welfare of the Association is by no means
                  derogating.
               "The three prize Cochin-China fowls were sold for $100. The two prize
                     Grey Shanghaes, or 'Bramah Pootras,' were sold for $50. Three
                  chickens of the same, at $50. A pair of Burnham's importation of
                     Cochins, at $80; another pair, at $40; another trio (chickens), at
                  $40. Six Black Spanish chickens (Child's), at $50. Six White Shanghae
                  chickens (Wight's), at $45. Three hens, of same stock, at $50—and several pairs
                  and trios of other varieties, at from $25 each, to $25 and $30 to $40 the
                  lot."
               
               
               At a subsequent meeting of the Trustees, Mr. George P. Burnham, on the part of the
                  Judges at the late exhibition of the Society, presented their
                     Report, whereupon it was
               "Voted, That the Report of the Judges on the recent show of poultry
                  in the Public Garden be accepted."
               And this was the end of that ball of worsted! I rather have the
                  impression, now,—as nearly as I can recollect (though my memory is somewhat
                  treacherous in these matters), but I think I sold a few fowls, just
                  after that fair. "I may be mistaken,—but that is my opinion!"
               The Report was duly accepted, in form, and I had the satisfaction of seeing my
                  "extraordinary" and "superb" stock again lauded to the very echo, at the expense
                  of the old-fogyism of the "Mutual Admiration Society."
               The consequence was a renewed activity in my sales, which continued delightfully
                  lively and correspondingly remunerative for several months after this
                  exhibition, also, where I did not enter the first fowl!
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               PRESENT TO QUEEN VICTORIA.
               I HAVE already alluded to the fine Grey Shanghaes which I forwarded to Her Majesty
                  the Queen. In relation to this circumstance the Boston papers contained the
                  following announcement, in the month of April, 1853; a circumstance which did not
                  greatly retard the prospects of my business either on this or on the other side of
                  the water! The compliment thus paid me by Royalty was duly appreciated, and its
                  delicacy will be apparent to the reader. This picture is the only one of its
                     kind ever sent to an American citizen.
               "A COMPLIMENT FROM VICTORIA.—Some weeks ago, Mr. George P. Burnham, of Boston,
                  forwarded to Her Majesty Queen Victoria a present of some Grey
                     Shanghae fowls, which have been greatly admired in England. By the last
                  steamer Mr. Burnham received the following letter from Her Majesty's Secretary of
                  the Privy Purse, accompanying a fine portrait of the Queen, sent over to Mr.
                  B.:
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              The Queen's Letter.
                              "Buckingham Palace, March 15, 1853.
                           
                           "Dear Sir: I have received the commands of Her Majesty the Queen, to
                              assure you of Her Majesty's high appreciation for the kind motives
                              which prompted you to forward for her acceptance the magnificent 'Grey
                              Shanghae' fowls which have been so much admired at Her Majesty's
                              aviary at Windsor.
                           "Her Majesty has accepted, with great pleasure, such a mark of respect
                              and regard, from a citizen of the United States.
                           "I have, by Her Majesty's command, shipped in the 'George Carl,' to
                              your address, a case containing a portrait of Her Majesty,*
                               of which the Queen has directed me to request your
                              acceptance.
                           
                              "I have the honor to be,
                              "Sir, your ob't and humble servant,
                              "C. B. Phipps.
                              
                                 "To Geo. P. Burnham, Esq.,
                                 Boston, U. S. A."
                              
                           
                           
                              
                              *See Frontispiece.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I caused a copy to be taken from this portrait of the Queen, and have had it
                  engraved for this book; it appears as the frontispiece.
               Immediately after this paragraph appeared, a new zest appeared to have been given
                  to the Grey Shanghae trade. Orders came from Canada and from Nova Scotia to a very
                  considerable amount; and during this season my sales were again very large. During
                  the year 1853, I started and raised over sixteen hundred chickens of all kinds;
                  but this did not supply my orders. I bought largely, and paid high prices, too,
                  generally. But few persons were now doing any business in the fowl-trade, except
                  myself, however.
               The N. Y. Spirit of the Times published portraits of the birds sent
                  to the Queen, and remarked that "the engraving represented six of the nine
                  beautiful Grey Shanghae fowls lately presented to Her Majesty
                     Victoria, Queen of Great Britain, by George P.
                     Burnham, Esq., of Boston, Mass.
               "These birds were forwarded by one of the last month's Collins steamers, in charge
                  of Adams & Co.'s Express, and passed through this city on the 24th ult. Their
                  extraordinary size and fine plumage were the admiration of all who examined them.
                  The picture is from life, engraved by Brown, and is a faithful representation of
                  the birds, which are very closely bred.
               "The color of this variety of the China fowl is a light silver-grey, approximating to white; the body is a
                  light downy white, sparsely spotted and pencilled with metallic black in the tail
                  and wing tips; the legs are feathered to the toes, and the form is unexceptionable
                  for a large fowl; this variety having proved the biggest of all the 'Shanghaes'
                  yet imported into this State.
               "The two cocks above delineated weighed between ten and eleven pounds each at six
                  months old; the pullets drew seven and a half to nine pounds each at seven to
                  eight months old; the original imported pair of old ones now weigh
                  upwards of twenty-three pounds, together. In the existing rage for weighty birds,
                  this variety will naturally satisfy the ambition of those who go for the 'biggest
                  kind' of fowls!
               "The group represents this variety with accuracy, and are, without doubt, for
                  their kind, rare specimens of the genuine gallus
                     giganteus of modern ornithologists. As Her Majesty has long been
                  known among the foremost patrons of that agreeable branch of rural pursuits,
                  poultry-raising, we do not doubt but that this splendid present from Mr. Burnham
                  will prove highly gratifying to her tastes in this particular."
               Portraits of these fowls appeared in Gleason's Pictorial for
                  January, 1853, and the editor spoke as follows of them:
               "The Grey Shanghae Fowls lately presented to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, of Great
                  Britain, by George P. Burnham, Esq., of Boston, were extraordinary specimens of
                  domestic poultry, and were bred the past season by Mr. Burnham from stock imported
                  by him direct from China. They were universally admitted, by the thousands who saw
                  them before they left, to be the largest and choicest-bred lot of chickens ever
                  seen together in this vicinity. These fowls were from the same broods as those
                  lately sent to Northby, of Aldborough, by Mr. Burnham, who is, perhaps, the most
                  successful poultry-raiser in America; and while these beautiful birds are
                  creditable to him as a breeder, they are a present really 'fit for a queen.'"
               The New York journals alluded to them in flattering terms, during their transit
                  through that city on the way to their destination; and the numerous orders that
                  crowded in upon me was the best evidence of the estimation in which this variety
                  of domestic fowls was then held, as well as of the determined disposition of "the
                  people" to be supplied from my "pure-bred stock."
               By one of the British steamers, in the summer of 1853, the express of Edwards,
                  Sanford & Co., took out to Europe from my stock, for Messrs. Bakers, of
                  Chelsea, Baily, of London, Floyd, of Huddersfield, Deming, of Brighton, Simons, of
                  Birmingham, and Miss Watts, Hampstead, six cages of these "extraordinary" birds.
                  The best of the hens weighed nine to nine and a half pounds each, and three of the
                  cocks drew over twelve pounds each! There were forty-two birds in all, which, together, could not be equalled, probably,
                  at that time, in America or England, for size, beauty and uniformity of color. The
                  sum paid me for this lot of Greys was eight hundred and seventy dollars.
               Of the three fowls sent to Mr. John Baily (above mentioned), and which he
                  exhibited in the fall of that year in England, the following account reached me,
                  subsequently:
               "Mr. Geo. P. Burnham, of Melrose, sent out to England, last fall, to Mr. John
                  Baily, of London, a cage of his fine 'Grey Shanghaes,' which were exhibited at the
                  late Birmingham Show. The London Field of Dec. 24th says that
                     'one pair of these fowls, from Mr. Burnham, of the United States,
                  the property of Mr. Baily, of Mount-street, were shown among the extra stock, and
                  were purchased from him, during the exhibition, by Mr. Taylor, of Shepherd's Bush,
                  at one hundred guineas' ($500)!"
               This was the biggest figure ever paid for two fowls, I imagine! Mr.
                  Baily paid me twenty pounds sterling for the trio, and I thought that fair pay, I
                  remember. The following brief account of my trade for the year of our Lord 1853, I
                  published on the last day of December of that year, for the gratification of my
                  numerous friends, and for the information of "the people" who felt an interest in
                  this still exciting and (to me) very agreeable subject:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "EDS. BOSTON DAILY TIMES: In a late number of your journal you were
                              pleased to allude to the sales of live-stock made by me latterly. At
                              the close of the present year, I find upon my books the following
                              aggregate of sales for 1853, which—to show how much has been done by
                                 one dealer—may be interesting to some of your readers
                              who 'love pigs and chickens.'
                           "I have sent into the Southern and Western States, through Adams &
                              Co.'s Express alone, from Jan. 1st to Dec. 27th, 1853, a little rising
                              $17,000 worth of Chinese fowls and fancy pigs. By Edwards, Sanford
                              & Co.'s Transatlantic Express, in the same period, I have sent to
                              England and the continent about $2000 worth of my 'Grey Shanghaes.' By
                              Thompson and Co. and the American Western Express Co., I have sent
                              west and south-west, in the same time, over $1200 worth; and my minor
                              cash sales (directly at my yards in Melrose) have been over $1000;
                              making the entire sales from my establishment for the past year nearly
                              or quite twenty-two thousand dollars in value. Of this
                              amount, $7300 worth has been sold since the 10th of Sept. last.
                           "By the first steamer that leaves New York in January,'54, I shall
                              send to New Orleans (to a single customer) between five and six
                              hundred dollars' worth, ordered a few days since. I have also now in
                              hand three large orders to fill for Liverpool and London, immediately;
                              and the present prospect is
                              that the poultry-trade will be considerably better next year than we
                              have ever yet known it in New England. Wishing you and my competitors
                              in the trade a "Happy New Year,' I am theirs and yours, truly,
                           
                              "GEO. P. BURNHAM.
                              "Melrose, Dec. 30,1853."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I have offered these statistics and facts to give some idea of the amount of trade
                  that must have been current, in the aggregate, when these isolated
                  instances are considered, and for the purpose of affording the reader an
                  opportunity to judge measurably to what an extent this fever really
                  raged.
               Thousands and tens of thousands of "the people" were now (or had been) engaged in
                  this extraordinary excitement, who were continuously humbugging themselves and
                  each other, at round cost. And when these thousands are multiplied by the fives or
                  tens, twenties or fifties, one hundreds or five hundreds of dollars, that they
                  invested in this mania, the "prime cost" of this hum can be fancied, though it can
                  never be known with accuracy.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               EXPERIMENTS OF AMATEURS.
               THE newspapers of the day were now occupied with speculative and actual
                  statistics, of various kinds, relating to the utility and value of poultry and its
                  produce, and every one seemed to join, in his or her way, to magnify the vastness
                  of this enterprise; and statements like the following, in respectable public
                  journals, had the effect to increase and keep up to fever-heat the state of the
                  hen malady:
               "By reference to the agricultural statistics of the United States, published from
                  reliable sources in 1850, it may be seen that the actual value of poultry, in New
                  York State alone, was two millions three hundred and seventy-three thousand and
                  twenty-nine dollars! Which was more than the value of all the swine
                  in the same state; nearly equal to one half the value of its sheep,
                  the entire value of its neat cattle, and nearly
                     five times the value of its horses and mules!"
               The amount of sales of live and dead poultry in Quincy Market,
                  Boston, for the year 1848, said another paper, was six hundred seventy-four thousand four hundred and
                  twenty-three dollars: the average sales of one dealer alone amounting to twelve
                  hundred dollars per week for the whole year. The amount of sales for the whole
                  city of Boston, for the same year, was over one million of dollars. The amount of
                  sales of eggs in and around the Quincy Market for 1848 was one
                  million one hundred and twenty-nine thousand seven hundred and thirty-five dozen,
                  which, at eighteen cents per dozen, makes the amount paid for eggs to be two
                  hundred three thousand three hundred and fifty-two dollars and thirty cents; while
                  the amount of sales of eggs for the whole city of Boston, for the same year, was a
                  fraction short of one million of dollars; the daily consumption of eggs at one of
                  its hotels being seventy-five dozen daily, and on Saturday one hundred and fifty
                  dozen.
               At this time, a single dealer in the egg-trade, at Philadelphia, sent to the New
                  York market, daily, one hundred barrels of eggs; while the value of eggs shipped
                  from Dublin to Liverpool and London was more than five millions of dollars for the
                  year 1848.
               In addition to these facts, frequent allusions were made to the enormous
                  quantities required for other markets, in the interior, to supply which the number
                  of laying hens must be kept good, and increased, as the demand for the eggs was
                  constantly augmenting, and the business, "if skilfully and judiciously managed"
                  (said the agricultural papers), must prove immensely profitable to
                  those who engage in it.
               If "skilfully and judiciously managed"! This was good advice. But no one could
                  inform "the people" how this management was to be effected. In the mean time,
                  every sort of experiment was resorted to, by amateurs and fanciers and humbugs
                  (who had been humbugged), to "improve" the breeds of poultry, and to produce new
                  fowls that would lay two or three or four eggs for one, as compared with the
                  old-fashioned birds.
               We knew one beginner who had purchased a pretty little place a few miles from the
                  city, who contracted the fever, and "suffered" badly, but who was cured by the
                  following curious result of his early experiments. Eggs were scarce (genuine
                  ones), and, after considerable searching, he finally procured of some one in
                  Boston a clutch of "fancy" eggs, for which he paid big figures, but which did not
                     turn out exactly what he anticipated; and so he
                  concluded, after a time, that the hen fever was a rascally hum. (He didn't procure
                  these eggs of me, be it understood. I never had any but
                     genuine ones!)
               He purchased what he was assured were pure "Cochin-China" eggs. (Perhaps they
                  were—who knows?) And after waiting patiently for six long weeks for the "curious"
                  eggs to hatch, he found six young ducks in his coop, one morning!—So
                  much for his knowledge of eggs!
               
               But this was not so bad as was the case of one of his neighbors, however, who paid
                  a round price for half a dozen choice eggs, queer-looking speckled eggs—small,
                  round, "outlandish" eggs—which he felt certain would produce rare
                  chicks, and which he was very cautious in setting under his very best hen.
               At the end of a few days he was startled, at the breakfast-table, to hear his
                  favorite hen screaming "bloody murder" from within the coop! He rushed to the
                  rescue, raised the box-lid, and found her still on the nest, but in a frightful
                  perturbation—struggling, yelling and cackling, most vociferously.
               He spoke to her kindly and softly; he would fain appease and quiet her; for there
                  was great danger lest, in her excitement and struggles, she would destroy the
                  favorite eggs—those rare eggs, which had cost him so much money and trouble. But
                  soft words were vain. His "best" hen continued to scream lustily, and he raised
                  her from the nest to look into the cause of the trouble more critically. His
                  astonishment was instantaneous, but immense; and his surprise found vent in the
                  brief but expressive exclamation, "Turkles—by thunder!"
               Such was the fact. This poor, innocent poultry-"fancier" was the victim of
                  misplaced confidence. The party who sold him them eggs had sold the
                  buyer shockingly! And instead of a brood of pure Cochin-Chinas, he found that his
                  favorite hen had hatched half a dozen pure mud-turtles, all of which,
                  upon breaking from the shells, seized upon the flesh of the poor fowl, and had
                  well-nigh taken her life before they could be "choked off." He has given up the
                  chicken-trade, and has since gone into the dwarf-pear business. Poor devil!
               A youthful lawyer of my acquaintance, away Down East, who was proverbial for his
                  "sharp practice" at the bar, met with a young doctor, who was a great
                  bird-fancier, and with whom he subsequently formed an intimate acquaintance. Our
                  medicinal friend owned a pretty little estate, distant a few miles from the city
                  of P——, where he kept up a very neat establishment, which was thoroughly
                  appointed. Among his out-of-door appurtenances, he maintained a modern bee-house,
                  a choice dove-cot, and a well-selected aviary; in the latter he had some choice
                  poultry, and into this the doctor invited his legal associate, one day, to examine
                  his specimens of cacklers and crowers.
               There was a super-excellent "Bother'em" fowl among this collection,—a rare hen,
                  the many good qualities of which the doctor dilated on (as he always did before
                  his visitors), and the lawyer took a fancy to the beauty, instanter; but this fowl
                  was a great favorite, and the doctor would neither sell, lend, or give her away;
                  and then the visitor begged some of her eggs, as a last favor. But the doctor was
                  selfish in regard to this particular bird—he wanted the breed exclusively to himself. It was of
                  no avail, however, and his friend promised to embrace the first opportunity to
                  steal the hen, and all the eggs he could find, if his request were not complied
                  with; whereupon the doctor at length reluctantly promised to send him a dozen
                  within a week, provided he said nothing about it. He would do it for
                     him, as a particular favor—and so he was as good as his word.
               The young lawyer had his poultry-yard, also; and, selecting a fine hen, he quickly
                  set her upon the choice Bother'em eggs, resolved to have as good a show as his
                  neighbor. But three weeks passed—four, and upwards—but no chickens appeared! He
                  broke up the nest, at last, and then called upon the doctor at once.
               "What luck, Tom?"
               "Not a chick!"
               "No!"
               "Not a one. The eggs weren't good."
               "No? That is queer," continued the doctor, "when I took so much extra pains with
                  'em."
               "Extra pains—how?"
               "Why, I boiled every one of 'em, the last thing before I sent 'em
                  down to you!"
               And so he did. Tom grinned, squirmed, and went home,—but that wasn't the last of
                  this joke.
               Six months afterwards, the keen-witted doctor visited the lawyer's little place,
                  where he saw a magnificent large Bucks County rooster stalking about in the
                  latter's yard.
               "By Jove, Tom! That's a rouser," exclaimed the doctor, enthusiastically, "'pon my
                  word! Where d'you get him?"
               "Pennsylvania—Buxton's; a fine fellow that. Only eight months old."
               "Will you sell him?"
               "Yes—no; I reckon not, on the whole."
               "I'll give you an X for him."
               "Well, take him. He's worth twenty dollars; but you shall have him for ten
                  dollars, being an old friend."
               The doctor placed the huge crower in his gig immediately, went home, killed off
                  two of the finest Dorking roosters in the county, and put the new comer into his
                  nice poultry-house; congratulating himself upon having at last secured a "tip-top
                  breeder," and nothing else.
               At the end of the season, however, he complained to his friend the lawyer that he
                  had had but very few eggs latterly; he could raise no chickens from them—not a
                     one; and he didn't think much of the ten-dollar bird he purchased
                  of him, any way.
               "He's a rouser, Bill, surely," said the lawyer, with a knowing smirk, repeating
                  the doctor's exclamation on first beholding the rooster.
               "Well, yes—large, large—but—"
               
               "And a finer capon I never sold to anybody in my life!"
               "A what!" screamed the doctor, springing towards his horse, which
                  stood near by.
               "What's the price of b'iled eggs, Bill?" roared the lawyer, in
                  reply.
               "Ten dollars a dozen, by thunder!" was the answer, as the doctor drove his rowels
                  into the sides of his nag, and dashed away from his friend's gate a
                     wiser if not a better man.
               Many amateur poultry-raisers resorted to the most ridiculous and injurious shifts
                  for remedies against the ills that hen-flesh is heir to. I have known certain
                  friends who passed two or three hours every morning in running about their
                  fowl-premises with pill-box and pepper-cup in hand, zealously dosing their
                  drooping chickens, to their certain destruction. And some of the "doctors" went
                  into jalap, in cases of colds, fevers, &c., in their fowls. We
                  should as soon think of using arsenic, or any other poison, under such
                  circumstances. The internal formation of a hen is scarcely believed to resemble
                  that of a human being, surely; and why such medicinal applications, pray? This
                  reminds us of a private joke, by the way, that was "let out" by a young fancier
                  (out West) a little while ago.
               He had a bad cold himself, and had mixed "summat hot" to swallow, one evening. His
                  servant informed him that his favorite Cochin-China crower had been ill for a day
                  or two; and he ordered twenty grains of jalap to be prepared for his fine bird. By
                  some mistake his toddy was given to the crower, and he swallowed the hen-medicine
                  himself, and retired to bed.
               He slept soundly for a time, but was visited with shocking dreams. He fancied
                  himself to be a huge rooster—one of the biggest kind; that he had taken all the
                  premiums at all the shows, and that he had finally been set to hatch over a bushel
                  of Shanghae eggs. It was the twentieth day, at last, and the chickens commenced to
                  come forth from their shells beneath him. He dare not move,—his fowl-cure was at
                  work,—and his critical position, for the time being, can be better imagined than
                  portrayed. With a desperate effort, and a shrieking crow, he at length sprang from
                  his couch, dashed out of doors, and, since the day afterwards, has resolved to
                  eschew the use of jalap among his poultry,—a determination which, in all candor,
                  we recommend earnestly to the hen-Galens who imagine that a hen is "a human."
               It had now become an every-day occurrence to hear of black chickens emerging from
                  what were "warranted" pure white fowls' eggs; top-knot birds peeped forth from the
                  eggs of pure-bred anti-crested hens; and all colors and shapes and varieties of
                  chickens, except those that they were
                  purchased for, made their appearance about the time of hatching the eggs so
                  bought.
               All the old-fashioned fowls were utterly discarded. Cochin-Chinaism, Shanghaeism,
                  Bother'em Pootrumism, was rampant. The fancy egg-trade had begun to fall off
                  sensibly. "The people" had had enough of this part of the enterprise,
                  which was destined to prove so "immensely profitable," if "judiciously and
                  skilfully managed;" and the price was reduced to the miserable sum of three to
                  five dollars a dozen, only, as customers chanced to turn up.
               From the commencement of the trade, in 1849, down to the month of August, 1853, I
                  had a continued and certain sale, however, for every egg deposited upon my
                  premises, at my price.
               But this, though an exception, was not to be wondered at. I kept and
                  raised only the "genuine" article.
               
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               TRUE HISTORY OF "FANNY FERN."
               I WAS riding through Brookline, Mass., one fine afternoon, on my round-about way
                  home from a fowl-hunting excursion in Norfolk County, when my attention was
                  suddenly attracted by the appearance and carriage of the most
                  extraordinary-looking bird I ever met with in the whole course of my poultry
                  experience.
               I drew up my horse, and watched this curiosity for a few minutes, with a
                  fowl-admirer's wonder. It was evidently a hen, though the variety was
                  new to me, and its deportment was very remarkable. Her plumage was a shiny
                  coal-black, and she loitered upon a bright-green bank in the sunshine, at the
                  southerly side of a pretty house that stood a few yards back from the road. She
                  was rather long-legged, and "spindle-shanked," but she moved about skippingly and
                  briskly, as if she were treading upon thin egg-shells. Her feet were very delicate
                  and very narrow, and her body was thin and trim; but her plumage—that glossy,
                  jet-black, brilliant feathery habit—was "too much" for my then excited "fancy" for beautiful birds; and I
                  thought I had never seen a tip-top fowl before.
               As I gazed and wondered, this bird observed me coquettishly, and, raising herself
                  slightly a tip-toe, she flapped her bright wings ludicrously, opened her pretty
                  mouth, and sent forth a crow so clear and sharp, and so utterly
                  defiant and plucky, that I laughed outright in her face. I did. I could n't help
                  it.
               She noticed my merriment, and instantly flap went those glittering wings again,
                  and another shout—a very shriek of a crow, a termagant yell of a crow—rang forth
                  piercingly from the lungs of my sable but beautiful inamorata.
               This second crow was full of fire, and daring, and challenge, and percussion. It
                  seemed to say, as plainly as words could have uttered it, "Who are
                     you? What you after? Wouldn't you like to cage me
                     up—s-a-y?"
               I laughed again, wondered more, stared, and shouted "Bravo! Milady, you
                     are a rum'un, to be sure!" And again she hopped up and crowed
                  bravely, sharply, maliciously, wildly, marvellously.
               I was puzzled. I had heard of such animals before. I had read in the newspapers
                  about Woman's Rights conventions. I had seen it stated that hens occasionally were
                  found that "crowed like a cock." But I had never seen one before. This
                     was an extraordinary bird, evidently.
               There it went again! That same shrill, crashing, chal- lenging crow, from the
                  gullet of the ebon beauty before me. O, what a crow was that, my
                  countrymen! I resolved to possess this bird, at any cost. And I was soon in
                  communication with the gentleman who then had her.
               "Is this your hen, sir?" I inquired. And I think the gentleman
                  suspected me, instanter.
               "Yes," he answered. "That is, I support her."
               "Will you sell her?"
               "No—no, sir."
               "I will give you ten dollars for her."
               Crack! Crash! Whew! went that crow, again. I was electrified.
               "I'll give you fifteen——"
               "No, sir."
               "Twenty dollars, then."
               "No."
               "What will you take for her?"
               "Hark!" he replied. "Isn't that music? Isn't that heavenly?"
               "What is that?" I asked, eagerly.
               "My hen."
               "What is she doing?"
               "Singing," said the gentleman.
               "Beautiful!" I responded. "I will give you forty dollars for her."
               "Take her," replied her keeper. "She is yours."
               
               "What breed is it?" I inquired.
               "Spanker," said the gentleman, "but rare. It is one of Ellett's
                  importation—genuine."
               "Remarkable pullet!" I ventured.
               "Hen, sir, hen," insisted the stranger.
               I paid him forty dollars down, and seized my prize, though she proved hard to
                  catch.
               "She's much like the Frenchman's flea, sir," said her previous possessor. "Put
                  your finger on her, and she's never there. Feed her well, however, keep her in
                  good quarters, let her do as she pleases, and she'll always crow—always, sir. Hear
                     that? You can't stop her, unless you stop her breath. She always
                  crows and sings. There it is again! Isn't that a crow, for a hen—eh?"
               It was, indeed.
               "Good-day," said the Brookline gentleman, quietly pocketing his
                  money. "Fanny will please you, I've no doubt."
               "Fanny?" I queried.
               "Yes; I call her 'Fanny Fern,'" said the stranger to me, as I entered
                  my wagon; and, half an hour afterwards, my forty-dollar cock-hen, "Fanny Fern,"
                  was crowing again furiously, lustily, magnificently, on the bright-green lawn
                  beneath my own parlor-windows.
               "Fanny" proved a thorough trump. Bantams, Games, Cochins, Dorkings, Shanghaes,
                  Bother'ems, were nowhere when "Fanny" was round. She could outcrow
                  the lustiest feathered orchestra ever collected together in Christendom. She was a
                  wonder, that redoubtable but frisky, flashy, sprightly, sputtery, spunky "Fanny
                  Fern."
               And did n't the boys run after her? Well, they did! And did n't they want to buy
                  her? Did n't they bid high for her, at last? Did n't everybody flock to see her,
                  and to hear "Fanny" crow? And did n't she continue to crow, too? Ah!
                  it was heaven, indeed (and sometimes the other thing), to listen to "Fanny's"
                  voice.
               When "Fanny" opened her mouth, everybody held their breath and listened. "Fanny"
                  crowed to some purpose, verily! She crowed lustily against oppression, and vice,
                  and wrong, and injustice; and she crowed aloud (with her best strength) in behalf
                  of injured innocence, and virtue, and merit, exalted or humble.
               And, finally, "Fanny" hatched a brace of chickens; and did n't she
                  crow for and over them? She now cackled and scratched, and crowed
                  harder and louder and shriller than ever. The people stopped in the street to
                  listen to her; old men heard her; young men sought after her; all the women began
                  to "swear" by her; the children thronged to see her; the newspapers all talked
                  about her; and thousands of books were printed about my charming, astonishing,
                  remarkable, crowing "Fanny Fern."
               I sent her to the fowl-shows, where she "took 'em all down" clean, and invariably carried away the first
                  premium in her class. Never was such a hen seen, before or since. I was offered a
                  hundred, two hundred, five hundred dollars for her. I was poor; but did n't I own
                  this hen "Fanny,"—the extraordinary, wonderful, magnificent, coalblack,
                  blustering, but inapproachable and world-defying "Fanny"?
               "I will give you eight hundred dollars for her," said a publisher to
                  me, one day. "I want to put her in a book. She's a wonder! a star of the first
                  magnitude! a diamond without blemish! a God-send to the world in 1854!"
               At this moment "Fanny" crowed.
               "Will you take eight hundred?" screamed the publisher, jumping nearly to the
                  ceiling.
               "No, sir."
               "A thousand?"
               "No."
               "Two thousand?"
               "No, sir."
               "Five thousand?"
               "No! I will keep her."
               And I did. What was five thousand dollars to me? Bah! I had the
                  hen-cock "Fanny Fern." I didn't want money. My pocket-book was full to bursting,
                  and so was my head with the excitement of the hen fever. And "Fanny" crowed again.
                  Ah! what a crow was Fanny's!"
               "Fanny" couldn't be bought, and so my competitors clanned together to destroy her.
                  The old fogies did n't like this breed, and they resolved to annihilate all chance
                  of its perpetuation. I placed her in better quarters, where she would be more
                  secure from intrusion or surprise. I told her of my fears,—and did
                     n't she crow? She flapped her bright black wings, and crowed all over.
                     "Cock-a-doodle-doo—oo—oo!" shouted "Fanny," while her sharp eyes
                  twinkled, her fair throat trembled, and the exhilarating tone of defiance seemed
                  to reach to the very tips of her shining toe-nails.
                     "Cock-a-too—roo—oo!" she shrieked; "let 'em come, too! See what
                  they'll do—oo! I'll take care of you—oo! Don't get in a
                     stoo—oo! Pooh—pooh—poo—poo!"
               Maybe "Fanny" did n't crow! And I learned to crow. It was beautiful!
                  She crowed, and I crowed. We crowed together. She in her way,—I in mine. The duet
                  was mellifluous, cheering, soul-stirring, life-invigorating,
                     profitable.
               
               "Fanny" went into New York State, crowing when she left, crowing as she went, and
                  continuing to crow until she crowed the community there clear through the next
                  fourth o' July, out into the fabled millenium. She crowed Messrs. Derby &
                  Miller into a handsome fortune, and Mason & Brothers into ditto. She crowed
                  one Hyacinth into the shreds of a cocked hat and battered knee-buckles. She crowed the Hall breed of old hens so
                  far out of sight that the "search for Sir John Franklin" would be a fool to the
                  journey requisite to overtake that family. And still she crowed.
               
               The more they bade her stop, the more she would n't.
                     "Cock-a-tootle—too!"
                     "I-know-what-I-shall—doo!"
                     "What-do-I-care-for—yoo?"
                  "This-world-is-all—foo-foo."
                     "Leave-me-and-I'll-leave—you."
                     "If-not-I'll-lamm—you—TOO—oo!"
               And "Fanny" crowed herself at last into the good graces of two long
                     brothers in Gotham, where she is now crowing with all her might and
                  main. Let her crow!
               She was a remarkable "bird," that rollicking, joyous, inexplicable, flirting,
                  funny, furious "Fanny Fern." I hear her now again!
               "COCK-A-DOODLE—DOO—OO!" "Young 'Un,—you-will-do!!"
                     "Et—tu—Brute—o-o-o!!!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               CONVALESCENCE.
               ONE striking feature that exhibited itself in the midst of this mania, was the
                  fact that prominent among the leading dealers in fancy poultry, constantly
                  appeared the names of clergymen, doctors, and other "liberally-educated"
                  gentlemen.
               In Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, and most of the Eastern States, this circumstance
                  was especially noticeable; and more particularly in England. Whether this class of
                  the community had the most money to throw away, or whether their leisure afforded
                  them the better opportunity to indulge in this fancy, I cannot say; but one thing
                  is certain,—among my own patrons and correspondents, for the past five or six
                  years, I find the names of this class of "the people" by far the most conspicuous
                  and frequent.
               There came into my office, one morning late in 1853, a Boston physician (whom I
                  had never seen before), who introduced himself civilly, and invited me to ride a
                  short distance with him up town. I was busy; but he insisted, and his manner was peculiarly urgent and
                  determined.
               "My carriage is at the door," he said; "and I will bring you back here in twenty
                  minutes. I have some pureblood stock I desire to dispose of."
               "What is it, doctor?" I asked.
               "Chickens, chickens!" replied the doctor, briefly.
               I assured the gentleman that I had near a thousand fowls on hand at this time, and
                  had no possible wish to increase the number.
               "They are pure-bred—cost me high," he continued; "are very fine, but I must part
                  with them—come!"
               I joined him, and we rode a mile or more, when he halted before a fine, large
                  house; his servant in waiting took his horse, and he ushered me into his
                  well-appointed poultry-house, at the rear of his dwelling.
               The buildings were glazed in front and upon the roofs; the yards were spacious and
                  cleanly, and appropriately divided; the laying and hatching rooms were roomy and
                  convenient; the roosting-house was airy and pleasant, and everything was,
                  seemingly, in excellent order, and arranged with good taste throughout.
               "That cock cost me twenty dollars," said the doctor, calmly. "Those two hens I
                  paid eighteen dollars for. That bird, yonder, twelve dollars. These five pullets
                  stand me in about forty-five dollars. I have never yet been able to hatch but one
                  brood of chickens. The rats carried them off by the third morning
                  after they came into this world. The hens sometimes lay, I believe; at least, my
                  man says so. I have never seen any eggs from them myself, however. I
                  have no doubt this species of fowls (these Changays) do lay eggs,
                  though. There are twenty-two of them. Buy them, Mr. B——," continued the doctor,
                  urgently.
               I said no; I really did not want them.
               "I had nigh forty of them," continued the doctor, "two months ago.
                  But they have disappeared. Disease, roup, vermin, night-thieves, sir. Will you buy
                  them? John —— drive them out!"
               The fowls were driven into the main yard. There were but sixteen in all.
               "Where are the rest, John?" inquired the doctor, anxiously. "There were twenty-two
                  here yesterday."
               "I dunno, sir," said John.
               "Drive 'em back, and box them up, John. Mr. B——, will you make an offer for the
                  remainder? To-morrow I shall probably have none to sell! Will you give anything
                  for them?"
               I declined to buy.
               "Will you permit me to send them to you as a present, sir?" he continued.
               I did not want them, any way. I had a full supply.
               "What will you charge me, Mr. B——, to allow them to be sent to you?" continued the fancier,
                  desperately, and resolutely, at last.
               I saw he was determined, and I took his fowls (fifteen of them), and gave him ten
                  dollars.
               He smiled.
               "I have had the hen fever," he added, "badly—but I am better of it. I
                  am convalescent, now," said the doctor. "You see what I have here for houses; cost
                  me over seven hundred dollars; my birds over four hundred more; grain and care for
                  a year, a hundred more. I am satisfied! Your money, here, is the
                  first dollar I ever received in return for my investment. You see what I have left
                  out of my venture of twelve or thirteen hundred dollars; the manure, and—and—the
                  lice!"
               Such were the exact facts! His stock was selected from the Marsh and Forbes
                  importations, and the birds were good; but, by the time he got ready to believe
                  that it was n't all gold that glittered, the sale of
                     this variety of fowl had passed by. A chance purchaser happened to
                  come along soon after, however, who "had n't read the papers" so attentively as
                  some of us had, and who wanted these very fowls. I sold them to him, "cheap as a
                  broom," because the fever for this kind of bird was rapidly declining. He paid me
                  only $150 for this lot; which was a bargain, of a truth. The buyer
                  was satisfied, however, and so was I.
               
               These were but isolated instances. Scores and hundreds of gentlemen and amateur
                  fanciers found themselves in a similar predicament, at the end of one or two or
                  three years. Without possessing a single particle of knowledge requisite to the
                  successful accomplishment of their purpose,—utterly ignorant of the first
                  rudiments of the business,—they jumped into it, without reason, forgetting the
                  wholesome advice contained in the musty adage, "look before you leap." And, after
                  sinking tens and hundreds or (in some cases) thousands of dollars in
                  experiments, they woke up to find that they had had the fever badly,
                  but, fortunately, were at last convalescent!
               I was busy, all this time, in supplying my friends with "pure-bred" stock,
                  however, and had very little leisure to tarry to sympathize with these "poor
                  creeturs." The demand for my stock continued, and the best year's
                  business I ever enjoyed, was from the spring of 1853 to May and June, 1854; when
                  it commenced to fall off very sensibly, and the prospect became dubious, for
                  future operations, even with me.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               AN EXPENSIVE BUSINESS.
               DURING the past six years I have expended, outright, for breeding stock, and for
                  appropriate buildings for my fowls, over four thousand dollars, in round
                  numbers—without taking into the account the expenses of their care, and the cost
                  of feeding.
               Few breeders have spent anything like this sum, for this purpose,
                     strictly. In the mean time, the aggregate of my receipts has
                  reached (up to January, 1855) upwards of seventy thousand dollars. I have raised
                  thousands upon thousands of the Chinese varieties of fowls, and my purchases to
                  fill orders which came to hand during this term—in addition to what I was able to
                  fill from those I myself raised—have been very large. And, while I have been thus
                  engaged, hundreds and hundreds of amateurs and fanciers have sprung up in various
                  directions, all of whom have had their share, too, in this trade.
               To the fanciers—those who purchased, as many did at first, simply for their
                  amusement, or for the mere satisfaction of having good, or, perhaps, the best
                  birds—this fever proved an expensive matter. I have known amateurs who willingly
                  paid twenty, fifty, or a hundred dollars, and even more, for a pair, or a trio, of
                  what were considered very choice Shanghaes. These fowls, after the first few weeks
                  or months of the purchaser's excitement had passed by, could be bought of him for
                  five or ten dollars a pair! Yet, his next-door neighbor, who would not now take
                  these identical birds for a gift, scarcely, would pay to a stranger a similarly
                  extravagant amount to that which had a hundred times been paid by others before
                  him, for something, perhaps, inferior in quality, but which chanced to be called
                  by the most popular name current at the moment.
               Thus, for a time, bubble number one, the Cochin-Chinas, prevailed.
                  The eggs of these fowls sold at a dollar each, for a long period. Then came the
                     Shanghaes, of different colors,—as the yellow, the white, the
                  buff, or the black,—and took their turn. Many thousands of these were disposed of,
                  at round rates. The smooth-legged birds at first commanded the best price; then
                  the feathered-legged. And, finally, came the Grey Shanghaes, or "Chittagongs," or
                  "Brahmas," as they were differently termed; and this proved bubble number two, in
                  earnest.
               Everybody wanted them, and everybody had to pay for them, too! They were large,
                  heavy fowls, of China blood, plainly, but, with some few exceptions, were
                     indifferent birds. They were
                     leggy, however, and stood up showy and tall, and, to look
                     at, appeared advantageously to the fancy, at this period. In the maw of
                  this bubble, thousands of good dollars were thrown; and no race of poultry ever
                  had the run that did these Greys, under various names, both in this country and in
                  England.
               A most excellent Southern trade had sprung up, and large shipments of fowls went
                  forward to the West, from Massachusetts, and to Charleston, Augusta, Mobile, New
                  Orleans, etc., where the fever broke out furiously, and continued, without
                  abatement, for three years or more.
               No buyers were so liberal, generally, and no men in the world, known to Northern
                  breeders, bought so extensively, as did these fanciers in New Orleans and
                  vicinity. They purchased largely, from the very start; and the trade was kept up
                  with a singular vigor and enterprise, from the beginning to the end. Orders,
                  varying in value from $500 to $1200 and $1500, were of almost weekly occurrence
                  from that region; and in one instance, I sent forward to a gentleman in Louisiana,
                  a single shipment for which he paid me $2230! This occurred in September,
                  1853.
               In this same year, I sent, from January to December, to another gentleman (at New
                  Orleans), over ten thousand dollars' worth of stock.
               The prices for chickens ranged from $12 @ $15 a pair, to $25 or $30, and often $40
                  to $50, a pair. These rates were always willingly and freely paid, and the stock
                  was, after a while, disseminated throughout the entire valley of the Mississippi;
                  where the China fowls always did better than in our own climate.
               It proved an expensive business to some of these gentlemen, most emphatically. But
                  they always paid cheerfully, promptly, and liberally; and knew the
                  Yankees they were dealing with, a good deal better than many of the sharpers
                  supposed they did. For myself, I shall not permit this opportunity to pass without
                  expressing my thanks to my numerous and generous Southern patrons, to whom I sent
                  a great many hundred pairs of what were deemed "good birds," and to whom I am
                  indebted, largely, for the trade I enjoyed for upwards of five years. I sincerely
                  hope they made more money out of all this than I did; and I trust that their
                  substance, as well as "their shadows, may never be less."
               During this year, and far into 1854, the current of trade turned towards Great
                  Britain; and John Bull was not very slow to appreciate the rare qualities of my
                  "magnificent" and "extraordinary" birds; "the like of which," said a London
                  journal, when the Queen's fowls first arrived, "was never before seen in
                  England."
               For upwards of a year, I had all this trade in my own way.
                  Subsequently, some of the smaller dealers sent out a few pairs to London, but "the
                  people" there could never be brought to
                  believe those fowls were anything but mongrels; and, while these interlopers
                  contrived to murder the trade there, they at the same time "cut off their own
                  noses," for the future, with those who knew what poultry was, upon the other side
                  of the Atlantic.
               I had my shy at the Britons, seasonably!
               But, a few months afterwards (as I shall show in a future chapter), through the
                  mismanagement of an ambitious dealer in other fancy live-stock, the trade with
                  England, from this side of the water, was completely ruined. Over two hundred
                  American fowls were thrown suddenly upon the London market, and were finally sold
                  there, at auction, for a very small sum; and we were subsequently unable (with all
                  our chicken-eloquence) to make John Bull believe that even the Grey
                     Shanghaes were any longer "scarce" with us, here!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               THE GREAT PAGODA HEN.
               THE most ridiculous and fulsome advertisements now occupied the columns of certain
                  so-called agricultural papers in this country, particularly one or two of these
                  sheets in New York State.
               Stories were related by correspondents (and endorsed by the nominal editors),
                  regarding the proportions and weights and beauties of certain of the "Bother'em"
                  class of fowls, that rivalled Munchausen, out and out. Fourteen and fifteen pound
                  cocks, and ten or eleven pound hens, were as common as the liars who told the
                  stories of these impossibilities. And one day the following capital hit, by
                  Durivage, appeared in a Boston journal. He called it "The Great Pagoda Hen." There
                  is as much truth in this as there was in many of the more seriously-intended
                  articles of that time. It ran as follows:
               "Mr. Sap Green retired from business, and took possession of his country 'villa,'
                  just about the time the 'hen fever' was at its height; and he soon gave evidence
                  of hav- ing that malignant disorder in
                  its most aggravated form. He tolerated no birds in his yard that weighed less than
                  ten pounds at six months, and he allowed no eggs upon his table that were not of a
                  dark mahogany color, and of the flavor of pine shavings. He supplied his own table
                  with poultry, and the said poultry consisted of elongated drumsticks, attached by
                  gutta-percha muscles and catgut sinews to ponderous breast-bones. He frequently
                  purchased a 'crower' for a figure that could have bought a good Morgan horse; but
                  then, as the said crower consumed as much grain as a Morgan horse, he could not
                  help being perfectly satisfied with the bargain. His wife complained that he was
                  'making ducks and drakes' of his property; but, as that involved a high compliment
                  to his ornithological tastes, he attempted no retort. He satisfied himself that it
                  'would pay in the end.' His calculations of profits were 'clear as mud.' He would
                  have a thousand hens. The improved breeds were warranted to lay five eggs apiece a
                  week; and eggs were worth—that is, he was paying—six dollars a dozen.
                  His thousand hens would lay twenty thousand eight hundred and thirty-three dozen
                  eggs per annum, which, at six dollars per dozen, would amount to the sum of one
                  hundred and twenty-four thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight dollars. Even
                  deducting therefrom the original cost of the hens and their keep,—say thirty-six
                  thousand dollars,—the very pretty trifle of eighty-eight thousand nine hundred and
                  ninety-eight was the remainder—clear profit. Eggs—even dark mahogany
                     eggs—went down to a shilling a dozen! But we will not
                  anticipate.
               "To facilitate the multiplication of the feathered species, Mr. Green imported a
                  French Eccaleobion, or egg-hatching machine, that worked by steam, and was
                  warranted to throw off a thousand chicks a month.
               "One day an 'ancient mariner' arrived at the villa, with a small basket on his
                  arm, and inquired for the master of the house. Sap was just then engaged in
                  important business,—teaching a young chicken to crow,—but he left his occupation,
                  and received the stranger.
               "'Want to buy an egg?' asked the mariner.
               "'One egg? Why, where did it come from?' asked the hen-fancier.
               "'E Stingies,' replied the mariner.
               "'Domestic fowl's egg?'
               "'Domestic.'
               "'Let's see it.'
               "The sailor produced an enormous egg, weighing about a pound. Sap 'hefted' it
                  carefully.
               "'Did you ever see the birds that lay such eggs?' he asked.
               "'Lots on 'em,' replied the sailor. 'They're big as all out-doors. They calls 'em
                  the Gigantic Pagoda Hen. I'm afeared to tell you how big they are; you won't believe me. But jest you hatch out that
                  'ere, and you'll see wot'll come of it.'
               "'But they must eat a great deal?' said Sap.
               "'Scarcely anything,' replied the mariner; 'that's the beauty on 'em. Don't eat as
                  much as Bantams.'
               "'Are they good layers?'
               "'You can't help 'em laying,' replied the seaman, enthusiastically. 'They lay one
                  egg every week-day, and two Sundays.'
               "'But when do they set?' queried Green.
               "'They don't set at all. They lays their eggs in damp, hot places, and natur' does
                  the rest. The chicks take keer of themselves as soon as they're out of the
                  shell.'
               "'Damp, hot place!' said Sap. 'My Eccaleobion is the very thing, and my artificial
                  sheep-skin mother will bring 'em up to a charm. My friend, what will you take for
                  your egg?'
               "'Cap'n,' said the mariner, solemnly, 'if I was going to stay ashore, I wouldn't
                  take a hundred dollars for it; but, as I've shipped ag'in, and sail directly, you
                  shall have it for forty.'
               "The forty dollars were instantly paid, and the hen-fancier retired with his
                  prize, his conscience smiting him for having robbed a poor, hard-working
                  sailor.
               "O, how he watched the egg-hatching machine while that extraordinary egg was
                  undergoing the steaming pro- cess! He begrudged the time exacted by eating and
                  sleeping; but his vigils were rewarded by the appearance, in due time, of a stout
                  young chick, with the long legs that are a proof of Eastern blood. The bird grew
                  apace; indeed, almost as rapidly as Jack's bean-stalk, or the prophet's gourd. But
                  the sailor was mistaken in one thing; it ate voraciously. Moreover, as it
                  increased in size and strength, the Pagoda exhibited extraordinary pugnacity. It
                  kicked a dozen comrades to death in one night. It even bit the hand of the feeder.
                  Soon it was necessary to confine it in a separate apartment. Its head soon touched
                  the ceiling. What a pity it had no mate! Sap wrote to a correspondent at Calcutta
                  to ship him two pairs of the Great Pagoda birds, without regard to cost. Meanwhile
                  he watched the enormous growth of his single specimen. He kept its existence a
                  profound secret. It was under lock and key, in a separate apartment, lighted by a
                  large window in the roof. Sap's man-of-all-work wheeled daily two bushels of corn
                  and a barrel of water to the door of the apartment, and Green fed them out when no
                  one was looking. Even this supply was scanty; but, out of justice to his family,
                  Sap was compelled to put the monster bird on allowance.
               "'Poor thing!' he would say, when he saw the creature devouring broken glass, and
                  even bolting stray nails and gravel-stones, 'it cuts me to the soul to see it
                  reduced to such extremity. But it's eating me out of house and home. Decidedly, that sailor-man must have
                  been deceived about their being moderate feeders.'
               "When the bird had attained to the enormous altitude of six feet, the proud
                  proprietor sent for the celebrated Dr. Ludwig Hydrarchos, of Cambridge, to inspect
                  him, and furnish him with a scientific description, wherewith he might astonish
                  his brethren of the Poultry Association. The doctor came, and was carefully
                  admitted by Green to the presence of the Great Pagoda Hen. The bird was not
                  accustomed to the sight of strangers, and began to manifest uneasiness and
                  displeasure at seeing the man of science. It lifted first one foot and then the
                  other, as if it were treading on hot plates.
               "'Hi! hi!' said Green, soothingly. 'Pagy! Pagy! come, now, be quiet!—will
                  you?'
               "'Let me out!' cried Hydrarchos, in great alarm. The huge bird was polking up to
                  him. 'Let me out, I say!'
               "'I never knew it to act so before,' said Green, fumbling at the lock.
               "A whirr, a rush, a whizzing of the wings, and the bird was down on the doctor,
                  treading on his heels, and pecking at the nape of his neck.
               "'Pagy! Pagy!" supplicated the owner.
               "But the angry bird would not listen to reason, and Sap received a thump on the
                  head for his pains. And now both rushed for the opening door, stumbling and
                  falling prostrate in their eagerness to escape. The monster bird danced a moment
                  on their prostrate bodies, and then darted forth from its late prison-house.
               "It rushed through a couple of grape-houses, carrying destruction in its progress.
                  It scoured through the flowerbeds, ruining the bright parterres. Mrs. Green, who
                  was walking in the garden with her child, saw the horrid apparition, and stood
                  paralyzed with terror. In an instant she was thrown down and trampled under foot,
                  shrieking and clasping her infant in her arms.
               "Mr. Green beheld this last atrocity, and his conjugal affection overcame his love
                  of birds. He caught up his fowling-piece and fired at the ungrateful monster; the
                  shot ripped up some of its tail-feathers, but failed to inflict a mortal
                  wound,—nothing short of a field-piece could produce an impression on that living
                  mass. Away sped the fowl to the railroad-track, down which it rushed with headlong
                  speed. But its career was brief; an express train, coming up in an opposite
                  direction, struck it full in front, and rushed on, scattering feathers, wings and
                  drum-sticks, wildly in the air.
               "'Tell me, doctor,' gasped Green, 'what do you think of my Great Pagoda?'
               "'Great Pagoda!' said the professor, in indignant disdain. 'That was a
                  Struthio,—Greek, Strothous,—in other words, an
                  ostrich. If you hadn't belonged to the
                  genus Asinus, you'd have known that, without
                  asking me. Good-morning, Mr. Green.'
               "'Where is the monster?' cried Mrs. Green. 'I believe the poor child is killed. O,
                  Sap, I didn't expect this of you!'
               "'Be quiet, my dear,' said Green; 'it was only an experiment.'
               "'An experiment, Mr. Green!' retorted the lady, sharply; 'your wife and child
                  nearly killed, and you call it an experiment! Nurturing ostriches to devour your
                  off-spring! I wonder you don't take to raising elephants.'
               "'No danger of that, Maria,' replied her husband, meekly. 'I have "seen the
                  elephant." And to-morrow I shall send my entire stock to the
                  auction-room,—Shanghaes, Chittagongs, Brahma Pootras, Cochins, Warhens and
                  Warhoos. They're nice birds, great layers, small eaters, but they—don't
                     pay.'"
               Mr. Green was cured, of course; and though his anticipations were great, yet he
                  had his predecessors and his successors in the hen traffic, who were almost as
                  sanguine as he, and who not only "paid through the nose" for their experience, but
                  who came off, in the end, really, with quite as little success. Mr. Green was but
                  one of many. Mr. Green was one of "the people."
               It will be remembered that my correspondents allude to the fowls they "see
                     in the noospapers."
               
                  I had seen these birds, in the same way, before they
                  did. And a London dealer wrote me that he could send me a lot of Egleton's
                  "famous" stock, "which took the three first premiums at a metropolitan show, and
                  two descendants of which, at the close of the late exhibition, were sold at
                     auction for forty-eight guineas ($262)."
               I immediately sent out for a few of these monsters. They were described to me as
                  being of enormous size, and feathered upon the legs; and I was now
                  somewhat surprised to note that several of the English societies decided that the
                     true "Cochin-China" fowl (as they term this variety)
                  come only with feathered legs. The very stock above alluded to, however, came
                  direct from the city of Shanghae; and duplicate birds of the same
                  blood were delineated in the London Illustrated News. The
                  metropolitan associations required that all Cochin-China fowls put in competition
                  for premiums must be feathered-legged. This was a new decision, as it
                  is well known that every importation of domestic fowl yet brought out from China
                  direct come more or less clean-legged; and that fully one half of
                  their progeny are so, with the most careful breeding, both in England and in this
                  country. This was immaterial, however; and I repeated the story to my
                  correspondents in good faith, and sent them copies of the portraits of these new,
                  "extraordinary," "splendid" and "astonishing" hens, precisely as their history and
                     pictures came to me.
                  The result can be fancied. Here is the "original" portrait of 
                     ONE OF 'EM.
                  
               
               This was the kind of thing that "took down" the out- siders. Orders for this
                  strain of pure blood poured in upon me, and I supplied them. I trust the
                  purchasers were always satisfied. In my case, it might answer; but I
                  would not recommend the practice generally of purchasing chickens out
                  of the newspapers. Such a portrait as the above might chance to be a
                  little fanciful; or, perhaps, it might be a trifling exaggeration,
                  you see. Yet this was the breed that were always "put in the
                     newspapers." You very rarely found them in your coops, though!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               "POLICY THE BEST HONESTY."
               THIS reversion of the old saying that "honesty's the best policy" seemed to have
                  finally attained among many hen-men, and the ambition to dispose of their now
                  large surplus stock, at the best possible prices, had become very general, while
                  the means to accomplish it came to be immaterial, so that they got rid of their
                  fancy poultry at fancy figures.
               Nothing that could be said against me and my stock was neglected, or omitted to be
                  said. But, as long as fowls would sell at all, I had my full share of the trade,
                  notwithstanding this. The following veritable letter, received from a noted
                  "breeder," in 1853, will explain itself; and it exhibits the disposition of more
                  than one huckster still left around us. It will be observed that this
                  gentleman called me his "friend"!
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "FRIEND B——: What has become of all the trade? I haven't sold twenty
                              dollars' worth of chickens, in a month! I've now got over three
                              hundred of these curses on hand— and they're eating me up, alive.
                              What'll we do with them? Do you want them? Will you buy
                                 them—anyhow? And give what you like for them.
                           "They are a better lot than you ever owned,—everybody says so,—Greys,
                              Cochins (pure) and Shanghaes. D—n the business! I'm sick
                              of it. My fowls and fixin's cost me over twelve hundred dollars. What
                              do you think of an auction? Has the bottom fallen out, entirely? Could
                              I get back two or three dollars apiece for this lot, do you think, at
                              public sale?
                           "B—— is stuck with about five hundred of the gormandisers. I'm glad of
                                 it—glad—glad! An't you? He always lammed you, as well
                              as me; and though I think you can swinge the green 'uns
                              as cutely as 'most any of 'em, he has been an eye-sore
                              for three years that ought to be put down. He got his stock of you, he
                              says,—but (no offence to you, friend B——), it an't worth a cuss. All
                              of it's sick and lousy, and he shan't sell no more fowls, if I can
                              help it.
                           "Have you seen W——'s stock, lately? Isn't he a beauty! I
                              told him, last week, he'd ought to be ashamed of himself ever to gone
                              into this trade, at all. He's well enough off, without stealing the
                              bread out of the mouths of them that's a long way honester than he
                              ever was. I'll have a lick at him, yet.
                           "Come and see my stock,—and buy it. I don't want it. I must give it up. I'm too busy
                              about something else. Come—will you? I don't say anything against your
                              fowls, outside; but you know, as well as I do, that you haven't got
                              the real thing. Bennett says you haven't, and everybody
                              else says so. As to your 'importations,' you never had a fowl that was
                              imported from any further off than Cape Cod, and you know it! But that
                              is neither here nor there. I don't care a fig how much
                              you gouge 'em. All I want is to get rid of mine. If you
                              don't buy them, I shall sell them,—somehow,—or give them away, sure.
                              They shan't eat me up, nohow.
                           "They don't eat nothing—these fowls don't! O, what an infernal humbug
                              this is! I never got much out of it, though. I tell everybody what all
                              the rest of you do,—of course. But I had rather keep the
                              same number of Suffolk pigs, anyhow, so far as that's concerned. I
                              an't afraid of your showing this letter to nobody—ha! ha! So I don't
                              mark it 'private.' But of all the owdacious humbugs that ever this
                              country saw, this thing is the steepest,—and you know
                              it!
                           "Write me and say what you'll give me for my lot. I won't peach on
                              you. You can buy 'em on your own terms. I want to get out of it. And
                              you may say just what you've a mind about 'em. I'll back you, of
                              course. Couldn't you take them, and get up another fresh guy on a 'new
                              importation'? That's it. Come, now, friend B——, help me out. And
                              answer immediately. All I want is to get out of it, and catch
                                 me there again if you can!
                           
                              Yours, &c.,
                              "—— ——.
                           
                        
                        
                           "P. S. If you don't buy them, I shall kill the brutes, and send 'em to
                              market; though they are too poor for that, I think."
                        
                     
                  
               
               This complimentary epistle from a brother-fancier was rather cool, but it didn't
                  equal the following. I had more than one of this sort, too,—of which I had no
                  occasion, for the time being, to take the slightest notice, for I had "other fish
                  to fry," decidedly!
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MR. BURNHAM.—SIR: How is it that you have the impudence to try to
                              palm off on the public those fowls of yours for genuine
                                 'imported ones,' when it is known that you bought them
                              all of me, and A——, and B——? How can you sleep nights? Don't you feel
                              a squirming in your conscience? Or is it made of ingy-rubber, or
                              gutter-perchy? You have made hundreds, and I don't know but thousands
                              of dollars, by your impudence and bare-faced deceit. They are
                                 not genuine fowls. I say this bolely. I
                              wish there was a noospaper that would show the inderpendence to print
                              an article that I could rite for it, on this subject of poletry. If I
                              wouldn't make you stare, and shet your eyes up, too, then I aint no
                              judge of swindling!
                           
                           "Why don't you act like a man? Carnt you? Havn't you got
                              the pluck to own up that other people have done for you what you never
                              had the gumption to do for yourself? Why don't you act fair,—and tell
                              where the genuine fowls can be got, and of who? You're a doing the
                              poultry business more hurt than all the rest of the men in the country
                              is doing, or ever did, or ever will, sir.
                           "I don't mind a man's being sharp, and looking out for himself.
                                 I do that. But I carn't humbug people as you are
                              doing,—and I won't, neither. You're sticking it into the people
                              nicely,—don't you think you are? And they believe it,
                              too! The people believes what you tell them, and sucks it all down,
                              and wants more of it. And you keep a giving it to them, too! How long
                              do you suppose such infamous things as these can last? I hope this
                              letter will do you good. I havn't no ends to answer. I keep but a few
                              fowls, and I have never charged over twenty-five dollars a pair for
                              the best of them,—as you know. You get fifty or a hundred
                              dollars a pair. So the noospapers say, but I believe you lie when they
                              say so. You carn't come this over me! You don't pull none
                              of that wool over my eyes! No, sir!
                           "If you want to get an honest living,—get it! I don't say nothin
                              against that; you've a rite to. But don't cheat the people out of
                              their eye-teeth, by telling these stories that you carn't prove.*
                               You've no right to. You sell fowls, by this means, but you
                              don't get no clear conscience by it. It's wrong, Mr. Burnum, and you
                              know it. While you do this, nobody can sell no fowls except
                                 you. Give other people a chance, say I. I wouldn't do
                              this, nohow, to sell my fowls at your expense; and I go for having
                              everybody do unto others as I would do to
                                 them. This is moral and Christian-like, and you'd
                              better adopt it. That's my advice, and I don't charge nothing for it.
                              So, no more at present—from
                           
                              Your, resp'y,
                              "—— —— ——."
                           
                           
                              
                              *I never found, in my limited experience in this business, any
                                 particular necessity for attempting to prove anything. "The
                                 people" wanted FOWLS—not proofs!
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               These missives never disturbed me. Why should they? These very men would have
                  sold, from that very stock,—had done so, repeatedly, before,—whatever
                  a buyer sought to purchase. I never knew either of them to permit the chance of a
                  sale to pass by him, on account of the variety of bird sought! They
                  invariably possessed whatever was wanted. With them, "policy was the
                  best honesty." I did not complain. I was a "hen-man," but no
                  Mentor.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               A GENUINE HUMBUG.
               
                  
               
               IT was now getting pretty clear to the vision of most of the initiated that the
                  hen fever was in the midst of its height. Buyers with long purses were about, but
                  they were not so ravenous as formerly. They talked knowingly and cautiously, and
                  chose their fowls with more care than formerly; but still a great many samples
                  were being circulated, and at very handsomely remunerating prices.
               A gentlemanly-looking man called upon me, one day, about this time,
                  in Boston, and introduced himself, in his own felicitous manner, something in this
                  wise:
               "How are you? Mr. Burnum, I suppose. My name is T——. I'm from Phil'delphy."
               "Happy to see you, Mr. T——," I replied. "Take a seat, sir?"
               "I want to look at your fowls, Burnum," he continued, in a rather
                  bluff manner. "I know what poultry is, I think. I've been at it, now,
                  over thirty year; and I'd oughter know what fowls is. You're a humbug, Burnum!
                  There's no doubt about that; and you're all a set of hums,
                  together—you hen-men! I haven't got the fever. I'm never disturbed by no such
                  stupid nonsense. These China fowls are an old story with me. I had
                  'em twenty years ago,—brought into Phil'delphy straight from Shanghae by a friend
                  of mine."
               [This gentleman had forgotten, or didn't know (or thought I didn't),
                  that the port of Shanghae had been open to communication with this country only a
                  dozen years or less; and so I permitted him to proceed in his remarks without
                  offering any opposition to his assumption.]
               "These big fowls never lay no eggs, Burnum. You know it as well as anybody.
                     Do they?"
               "None to hurt," I answered.
               "No, no—I reck'n not," continued my visitor. "I know 'em, like a
                  book. Can't fool me with them. They an't worth a curse to nobody. I'll go out and
                     see yours, though, 'cause you 're a good deal fairer than I
                  expected to find you. I thought you'd try to hum me, same as I s'pose
                  you do the rest."
               "O, no!" I replied, meekly. "When I meet with gentlemen who are posted up, as
                     you are, sir, I conceive it to be useless to attempt to urge them
                  to possess themselves of this stock; because I am always satisfied, at first
                  sight, what my customer is. And I govern myself accordingly. I will take you out
                  to my place, directly. My carriage is in town, and we'll ride out together. You
                  can see it,—but you say you don't want to purchase any?"
               "No, no—that's not my object, at all. Still, I like to look at the humbugs, any
                  way."
               I was as well satisfied that this man knew very little of what he thus boldly
                  talked of, as I also was that he had come all the way from Philadelphia
                     purposely to buy some Chinese fowls. But I gave him no hint of
                  this suspicion; and we arrived, an hour afterwards, at my residence in
                  Melrose.
               He examined my fowls carefully; went through all the coops and houses, and finally
                  we entered the "green-house" where the selected animals were kept. As
                  soon as he saw these birds, I saw that he was "a goner."
               He denounced the whole race as he passed along; but when we entered this
                  well-appointed place, he stopped. These were very respectable, and he would n't
                  mind having a few of these, he said.
               "What do you get for such as these?" he inquired.
               "Twenty-five dollars each," I replied, "when I sell them. But they're all alike.
                     You know it as well as I do. They're worth no such money. These
                  fowls are well-grown, and are in good condition; but five or six shillings each is
                  their full real value. Still, you know when 'the children cry for
                  them,' why, we get a little more for them."
               "Yes; but twenty-five dollars is a thundering hum, any-how, Burnum! I can't go
                     that! You must n't think of getting no such price as that out of
                     me, you see; 'cause you know that I know what all
                  this bosh means. I'd like that cock and those three big hens," he added, pointing
                  to four of my "best" birds. "That is," he continued, "if I could have them at
                  anything like a fair rate."
               "My dear sir," I responded; "you don't want any such hum as this
                  imposed upon you. You know, evidently, what all this kind of thing
                  signifies. But, at the same time, you see I can get this price, and do get it
                  every day in the week, out of the 'flats' that you have been speaking of. I don't
                  sell any of these things to gentlemen, who know, as you do, what they
                  are, you see."
               "Yes, yes!" continued the stranger; "I know; I see. I comprehend you,
                  exactly—precisely. But I should like
                  them four fowls. What's the lowest price you'll name for them?"
               "I never have but one price, sir," I replied. "These fowls I keep
                  here for show-birds. They are my 'sign,' you perceive—my models. The younger
                  stock, that you have seen outside, are bred from these; and thus I am
                  enabled to show gentlemen, when they come here, what the others will
                     be"—(perhaps, I might have added; but I didn't).
               This gentleman remained half an hour at my house, and we talked the whole subject
                  over, at our leisure. I agreed with him in every proposition that he advanced, and
                  he finally left me with the assurance that I had been traduced villanously. He
                  really expected to meet with a regular sharper when he encountered me; but he was
                  satisfied, if there was a gentleman and an honest poultry-breeder in New England,
                     I was that fortunate individual!
               I did not dispute even this assurance on his part. And when he left,
                     I had one hundred dollars of his money, and he took
                  away with him four of my "splendid" pure-bred Grey Shanghaes, which I sent to the
                  cars with him when he bade me good-day.
               This was but a single sample of the real humbugs that presented
                  themselves to us, from time to time, all of whom were certain to
                  inform us that they were "thoroughly acquainted" with the entire details of the
                  business; all of whom had been through the routine, and "knew every rope in the
                  ship;" none of whom were affected with the "fever" (so they always declared), and
                  not one of whom believed, while they were thus striving to pull wool over the eyes
                  of others, that they were all the time being "shaken down" without mercy!
               
                  This was the very class of men who, in the later days of the malady,
                  assisted most to keep up the delusion, and to aid in carrying on the hum of the
                  trade. To be sure, the keepers of agricultural warehouses talked, and told big
                  stories to their poor customers, who would buy eggs and chickens of them, for a
                  while, at round prices; true, most of the agricultural papers strove from week to
                  week to keep up the deceit, after the editors or proprietors found their yards
                  over-stocked with this species of property, for which they had originally paid me
                  (or somebody else) roundly, and which they "could n't afford to lose," though they
                     knew it to be valueless! True, the hen-men themselves kept their
                  advertising and the big stories of their success constantly before "the people,"
                  whom they gulled from day to day. But no portion of the community did more to
                  "help the cause along" than did this self-sufficient, learned, know-nothing,
                  thin-skinned class of "wise-acres," who never chanced to make much more than a
                  considerable out of the writer of this paragraph—I think!
               
               Among this well-informed (?) set of men there was a "John Bull" who was connected in some way with a
                  Boston weekly, which was nominally called an agricultural sheet, but which for
                  several years was filled with articles upon the subject of "the equality of the
                  sexes."
               His name was Pudder, or Pucker, or Padder, as nearly as I remember. From the
                  commencement of this fever he was sorely affected, and his articles upon the
                  merits of the different breeds of fowls he raised were very learned and
                  instructive! He sold eggs for three, four, or five dollars a dozen, for a few
                  weeks; but, as they didn't hatch, his game was soon blocked. Still, he stuck to
                  this hum with the obstinacy of a "bluenose;" and his readers were indebted to his
                  advice for possessing themselves of the most worthless mass of trash (in the shape
                  of poultry) that ever cursed the premises of amateur. His lauded "Plymouth Rocks,"
                  his "Fawn-colored Dorkings," his "Italians," his "Drab Shanghaes," etc., sold,
                  however; and the poor devils who read the paper, and who purchased this stuff,
                  lived (like a good many others) to realize, to their hearts' content, after paying
                  this fellow for being thus humbugged, the truth of the old adage that "the fool
                  and his money is soon parted."
               Still, Podder was useful—in his way—in the hen-trade. The operations of such
                  ignorant and wilful hucksters had the effect of opening the eyes of those who
                  desired to obtain good stock, and who were willing to pay for it. And
                  after they had been thus fleeced, they became cautious, and procured their poultry
                  only of "honorable" and responsible breeders (like myself), who imported and bred
                  nothing but known pure stock.
               As late as in January, 1855, a western agricultural sheet alludes to the flaming
                  advertisement of an old hand in this traffic, and says: "It is known to all who
                  know anything about poultry that Mr. G—— has been an amateur breeder for about
                  forty years, and is undoubtedly better 'posted,' in reference to domestic and
                  fancy fowls, than any other man in America; and, beside this, he is an honest man,
                  and has no 'axe to grind.' He has raised fowls, heretofore, solely for his
                     own amusement; but now he proposes to accommodate the
                  public by disposing of some of them."
               This man is my "fat friend" in Connecticut,—who has bred and bought and sold as
                  much trash, in the past ten years, as the best (or the worst) of us.
                  Friend Brown, we could tell you a story worth two of yours, on this point! But—we
                  forbear.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               BARNUM IN THE FIELD.
               THE prince of showmen was suddenly developed as a "hen-man"! Mr. Barnum was
                  seized, one morning, with violent spasms, and, upon finding himself safely within
                  the friendly shelter of "Iranistan," his physicians were duly consulted, who
                  examined his case critically, and reported that the disease lay chiefly in the
                  head of their patient—who, it was subsequently ascertained, was suffering from a
                  severe attack of hen fever.
               Such was the violence of the demonstrations in this gentleman's case, however, and
                  so fearful were the indications with him, even during the incipient stages of the
                  affection, that his friends feared that Phineas T. had really contracted his
                  "never-get-over." But, upon being informed (as I was, soon afterwards) of this
                  case, and questioned as to his probable eventual recovery, I unhesitatingly gave
                  it as my opinion that his friends might rest assured the humbug that could kill
                     him was yet to be discovered; and that, so far as he was
                  personally concerned, I entertained no sort of doubt that "he would feel much
                  better when it was done aching." (A prediction which, I have no question, has been
                  accurately fulfilled, ere this.)
               The man who could succeed, as he had, with no-haired horses, gutta-percha
                  mermaids, fat babies, etc., and who had gone into and out of fire-annihilators,
                  prepared mastodons, illustrated newspapers, copper mines, defunct crystal palaces,
                  and the like, unscathed, would scarcely be jeopardized by an attack of the
                  prevailing malady of the day, however violently it might exhibit itself in his
                  case. And so there was hope for Phineas, though his symptoms were really
                  alarming.
               My friend took the very best possible means for alleviating the virulence of his
                  attack; and, looking about him for the largest-sized humbug known in
                  the trade, he alighted upon a two-hundred-and-forty-pound Connecticut joker, who
                  quickly offered to inform him how he could find relief.
               "How shall I do it, John?" exclaimed Phineas, as his fat friend made his
                  appearance.
               "Heesiest thing in life," responded John; "hall you'ave to do is to put yer 'and
                  in yer pocket."
               "So?" said Phineas, putting his fist gently out of sight.
               "No—you are n't deep enough down yet," replied John. "Go down deeper. That's
                  better,—that 'll do."
               "How much 'll it cost?" queried Phineas.
               
               "Carn't say," responded John. "You're pooty bad. There's nuth'n' in
                     this country that'll cure you. Hi'll go hout to Hingland, if you
                  say so, and hi can git somethin' there that'll 'elp you. It ar'n't to be 'ad in
                  Ameriky, though."
               "Sho!" exclaimed Barnum; "you don't say so! Do you think, John, that we could find
                  something in England that would knock 'em, here?"
               "Nothing else," replied John. "Hi know where they keep 'em." (John
                  was raised in Great Britain.)
               "But, John," persisted Phineas, "there's Burnham, you know, of
                  Boston. They say he has the best poultry in the world; and I've no
                  doubt of it, between you and I."
               "Fudge!" exclaimed John; "Burn'am's a very clever fellow, hi've no manner o'
                  doubt, and hi won't say nuth'n' ag'inst 'im; but 'ee's the wust 'umbug you
                     ever see, since you 'ad breath. 'Ee don't know the dif'rence
                  'tween a Shanghi and a Cochin-Chiny—an' never did. 'Ee's a hum, 'is
                  Burn'am. Don't go near 'im, unless you want the skin shaved hoff o'
                  yer knuckles, clean."
               "Well John," said the show-man, "something must be done. I've got the fever, bad,
                  I'm afraid, as you suggest; and it must be fed. What can you do for me?"
               John thought the matter over, and it was finally agreed, as there were no good
                  fowls in America (according to John's notions), that he should be
                  deputized by Phineas to proceed to "Hingland," and procure some genuine (that is,
                     pure) stock, for the coops at Iranistan, at the liberal show-man's
                  expense! A capital recipe, this, for Barnum's disease, as well as for John's own
                  benefit.
               But Phineas isn't taken down easy, though they do occasionally "fetch him." And so
                  he hesitated. He thought the matter over a while, and finally said to his friend,
                  one day,
               "John, I've got it!"
               "'Ave you?" says John.
               "Yes, I've got it. You know I've something in my head besides grey hairs,
                  John."
               "Hi've no manner o' doubt o' that," replied John.
               "Well, I have thought this thing over, and I have determined to see, first, what
                  there is in America, before I send you out to Europe."
               "It'll take you a long time to do that," said John, "and you'd'ave to travel a
                  great w'ile to see all the poultry we've 'ere."
               "I won't travel at all," said Phineas.
               "No? As 'ow, then?" inquired John.
               "I'll get up a show—a poultry exhibition—on a grand scale, and it shall come off
                  at my Museum, at New York. Everybody'll come, of course; and we can see what there
                  is, buy what I want from the best of 'em, and make our selections as we may fancy;
                  you shall go out afterwards to England,
                  and obtain for me what I can't get here, you see."
               "Capital!—hexellent!" responded John.
               "And I'll call it the—the—what?" said Barnum, stopping for an
                  appropriate title to this anticipated exhibition.
               "I donno," said John, puzzled.
               "Well—then—the National Show," continued Phineas. "How'll that do?
                  The first exhibition of the 'National Poultry Society.' I think that's good. You
                  see that includes all quarters of the country; and we shall know no north, no
                  south, no east, no west! A quarter admission—Museum included—capital!"
               "Yes—just the thing!" chimed in his friend. And shortly afterwards
                  advertisements and circulars found their way into the hands of all the hen-men in
                  the country, who were thus invited to visit New York, in February, 1854, to
                  contribute to the grand show of the "National Poultry Society," of which P. T.
                  Barnum, Esq., was President.
               
               A long string of names was attached to this call, and the list of "Managers"
                  embraced one or more representatives from every State in the Union—my own humble
                  name appearing among the Vice-presidents for Massachusetts.
               The whole thing was clearly one of Barnum's dodges to fill his Museum
                  for a few days; and probably not a single individual except himself had any
                  knowledge of the forma- tion or existence of any such society as
                  this, of which he thus nominally appeared to be the presiding officer. At any
                  rate, after diligent inquiry, I could never ascertain that anybody knew anything
                  about any such an association, except himself.
               However, this was a matter of no sort of consequence, of course. The Fitchburg
                  Dépôt Show, in Boston, was a similar affair; and I now joined in this exhibition
                  without asking unnecessary questions,—because I saw that there was fun ahead, and
                  that I could make an honest penny out of it, whether Barnum did or
                  not.
               Every one now put his best foot foremost; and, as this fair approached, Shanghaes
                  were converted into Cochin-Chinas (by the knowing ones), by the removal of the
                  feathers from the legs; the mongrels were made feathered-legged Bother'ems, by the
                  free use of gum-tragacanth and down; the long-tailed fowls were deprived of all
                  superfluous plumes, through the aid of the pincers; and what this last process did
                  not satisfactorily effect, the application of the shears completed
                  (see engraving!); until, at last, the unlucky bipeds, whom nature had originally
                  supplied with decent caudal appendages, were reduced to that requisite state of
                  brevity, astern, which the mode or the taste of the day demanded.
                  And, at length, all was ready for the great "National Show" in New York city.
               As it turned out, the whole thing (though an utter sham
                  
                  
                     PREPARING FOR THE FOWL SHOW.—(See page 195.)
                   as regarded its being a society matter) proved to have been
                  well conceived, and, from beginning to end, was admirably well carried out. Mr.
                  Barnum did his part most creditably at this first show in New York, and the
                  experiment was eminently successful.
               The birds were afforded excellent care, and an immense quantity of good specimens
                  found their way to the Museum at the appointed time. For a week, notwithstanding
                  the very dull weather, the great rooms of the American Museum on Broadway were
                  thronged with visitors; and Barnum was in high glee at the entire success of his
                  undertaking.
               Not content with one week's show of the fowls, Barnum proposed that it should be
                  continued for six days longer; and the crowd continued to visit this exhibition
                  for another week, and to pour in with their friends, their wives, their children,
                  and their quarters, to the great edification and satisfaction of the proprietor of
                  the show, and the "President" of the "National Poultry Society."
               I was there, with a goodly quantity of my "rare" and "unexceptionable" and
                  "pure-bred" fowls, which were greatly admired by the thousands of lookers-on, who
                  flocked to this extraordinary exhibition. It was really astonishing (to
                     me, at least) what very fine birds I had at this show.
               And, "may be," fowls didn't sell there! If I remember rightly, "the
                  people" were round, on that occasion. And so was I!
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               FIRST "NATIONAL" POULTRY-SHOW IN NEW YORK.
               WHETHER it was because Barnum had taken this enterprise in hand, whether it was
                  because it was known that my "superior" stock was to be seen at the Museum, or
                  whether it was because the intrepid "Fanny Fern" had promised to visit the show, I
                  cannot say; but one thing was certain,—such a gathering of "the people" was seldom
                  witnessed, even in busy, driving, sight-seeing New York, as that which crowded the
                  great rooms of Barnum's establishment on the occasion of the first exhibition of
                  the so-called "National Poultry Society."
               "All the world" was there, with his wife and babies, and nieces and nephews. The
                  belle and the beau, the merchant and the mechanic, the lawyer and the parson, the
                  rich and the poor, old and young, grave and gay,—all were in attendance upon this
                  extraordinary display of cockadoodledom; and Barnum—the indefatigable, the
                  enterprising, the determined, the incomparable Barnum—was in his glory, as the
                  quarters were piled up at the counter of the ticket-office, and "the people"
                  wedged their way up the crowded stairs and aisles of his Museum.
               The great show-man was as busy as His Satanic Majesty is vulgarly supposed to be
                  in a snow-storm! Now here, now there; up stairs, down stairs; in the halls, in the
                  lobbies; busy with John, button-holing the "committees," from morning till night.
                  All smiles, all good-nature, all exertion to please the throngs of visitors who
                  constantly jammed their way about the building. And, to say that everything about
                  this undertaking (so far as he was personally concerned) was not managed with tact
                  and good judgment, as well as complete propriety and liberality, would be to state
                  what was untrue. Mr. Barnum rarely does anything by halves; and to him, in this
                  instance, belongs the credit of getting up, and carrying through successfully, the
                  very best show of poultry ever seen in America,—beyond all comparison.
               In due season I selected from my then somewhat reduced stock sixty specimens of
                  the Shanghae tribe of fowls, which, with some twenty samples of choice Madagascar
                  Rabbits, I forwarded (in charge of my own agent) to this long-talked-of show.
               The person whom I employed to look after my stock—(for I had long since got to be
                  "a gentleman," and couldn't attend to such trifling matters, personally)—the man
                  who went with it to this exhibition was thoroughly posted up in his "profession," and knew a hawk from a handsaw,
                  as well as a Shanghae from a Cochin-China. And when he started for New York with
                  my contributions, I enjoined it upon him to bear in mind, under all
                  circumstances, that the gentleman he represented had the only
                  pure-bred poultry in America, any way. To which he replied,
                  briefly,
               "Is that all? I knew that before."
               I said, "John, you're a brick. A faced-brick. A hard-faced-brick.
                  You'll do."
               John winked, and left me, with the understanding that, as soon as he should have
                  time to look around the show, he would telegraph me at Boston what the prospect
                  was, comparatively. I felt quite sure that my fowls would take all
                  the premiums, for they always had done so before; and my "pure-bred" stock grew
                  better and better every year!
               I did not go to the show for a day or, two after my agent left; and, on the
                  morning succeeding the opening, I received from him the following brief but
                  expressive telegraphic dispatch:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "G. P. BURNHAM, BOSTON.
                           
                           "Arrived safe; thought we'd got'em, sure. We
                                 have—over the left. You are nowhar!
                           
                              B."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Here was a precious fix, to be sure! For five years, I had carried away the palm
                  at every exhibition where my "splendid" and deservedly "unrivalled" samples had
                  been put in competition with the stock of others. And now, at the first great
                     national exhibition, where everybody would of course be present
                  (and where the first cages that would be looked for, or looked into, must be those
                  of Mr. Burnham, the breeder of the only original "pure"-blooded poultry in the
                  country), according to my agent's dispatch I was nowhar!
               This dispatch reached me at noon, and on the following morning I was in New York.
                  I looked about the several apartments in the Museum, and satisfied myself who had
                  the best fowls there, very quickly. As it happened, they were not inside of
                     my cages, by a long mark!
               Yet "the people" crowded around my showy coops, for which my agent had secured an
                  advantageous position, and in displaying them (if I remember aright) he lost no
                  opportunity in saying just enough (and no more) to the throng who
                  passed and admired their beautiful proportions, their great size, and splendid
                  colors. There were not a few choice birds scattered about the rooms,—under the
                  benches, or in the far-off corners,—which my eye fell upon, which my agent
                  subsequently purchased at very modest prices, and which found their way, somehow,
                  into my coops.
               "The people" now stared with more earnestness than ever. By the evening of the
                  second day, my "pure-bred" stock did look remarkably well! And when
                  the "commit- tee" came round, at last,
                  I found myself the recipient of several of the leading premiums, for my
                  "magnificent," "superb" and "extraordinary" contributions, again. And now
                  commenced the fun, once more, in earnest.
               Everything that I sent to New York was quickly bought up at enormous prices.
                  Fifty, eighty, a hundred, a hundred and twenty-five dollars per trio, was
                  willingly paid my agent for the rare and incomparable fowls I exhibited there.
                  "The people" were literally mad on the subject; and I hadn't half enough to supply
                  my customers with, at figures that astonished even my ideas of
                  prices,—which, by the way, were not easily disturbed!
               During this exhibition, Mr. Barnum announced that a "conversational" gathering
                  would be held, one day, in the lecture-room of his Museum; whither the throng were
                  invited to repair, at last, to talk over matters pertaining to the welfare of the
                  trade generally, and the hen-humbug more particularly.
               A rush was directly made for this hall, which was quickly filled up by the
                  multitude, who now stood or sat, with gaping mouths and staring eyes, in readiness
                  to be further bamboozled by the managers of this National "Society,"
                  who duly paraded themselves upon the platform, and commenced to show themselves up
                  for the edification of the uninitiated, and to the great amusement of those who
                  had "been there" before them.
               Mr. Barnum presided, but with that grace and modesty and extreme diffidence for
                  which he is so noted. The enthusiasm of the occasion soon reached concert-pitch,
                  however, and everybody on the stage, in the parquette, and around the gallery,
                  desired to relieve themselves of the pent-up patriotism that rioted in their
                  bosoms; and all desired to be heard at the same time.
               Cries of "Barnum! Barnum!" "Where's Bennett?" "Speech from Burnham!" "Down in
                  front!" "Give 'em a chance!" "Hear the president!—there he is!" "Hurra for the
                  Bother'ems!" &c. &c., rang from the lungs of the crowd. And finally order
                  was restored, and Mr. Barnum approached the front of the stage, to deliver himself
                  of "feelings that could be fancied, not described," amid the cheers and shouts of
                  that crazy multitude.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXX.
               BARNUM'S INNATE DIFFIDENCE.
               AS soon as the vociferous cheering had subsided, Mr. Barnum reached the
                  foot-lights, and smiled beneficently upon the crowd before him.
               "LADIES AND GENTLEMEN," said the show-man, modestly, "unaccustomed as I am to
                  public speaking, you will pardon me, imprimis,
                  for hinting at the extreme diffidence with which I now rise to address you; and I
                  am sure that, notwithstanding the commendable zeal that now animates this
                  enlightened audience, you will sympathize with me in the midst of the
                  embarrassments under which you must readily perceive I am laboring,
                  and extend to the speaker your lenity (all unused, as you are aware he is, to this
                  sort of scene), while he ventures upon a few very brief remarks on the interesting
                  and laudably-exciting topic that has brought us together here, on this happy
                  occasion."
               This modest appeal brought down the house, of course; and the bashful Mr. B.,
                  after clearing his throat, was requested by the crowd to "Go on, Barnum!
                  Proceed—put 'er through!"
               "The hen fever," continued Mr. B——, "is but just begun to be
                  realized, ladies and gentlemen, among us." (Barnum had been attacked by the malady
                  only a few weeks previously, and hadn't "heard from the back counties" then!)
                  "This first exhibition of the National Poultry Society, my friends, is ample
                  evidence in support of this statement. Was there ever such a show seen, or heard
                  of, ladies and gentlemen, as this which you are now the witnesses of? Never! Yet,
                  I repeat it, this is but the commencement. The enthusiasm which has attended upon
                  this exhibition, the feelings that have been stirred up by this before unheard-of
                  display, the people of every grade in society that come forward here in its
                  support, the zeal which animates the bosoms of the thousands upon thousands who
                  have attended it, and the names of the men connected with its origin and present
                  patronage, afford ample evidence in support of my assertions, that the fire has
                  but just begun—just begun to burn, fairly, ladies and gentlemen!"
                  ("That's a fact," was the ready response of a young gentleman who had just paid my
                  agent over three hundred dollars for a few samples of my "choice" chickens; the
                  first he ever owned!)
               "I want to say a few words," remarked a stranger, under the gallery,
                  at this point. But he was requested by the chairman to "hold in!"
                  until Mr. Barnum concluded. After considerable urging, this anxious man was
                     prevailed upon to sit down; though
                  he was evidently "full to bursting," with his enthusiastic emotions.
               "We have a good deal to learn yet, gentlemen," continued Barnum (and that was
                  truthful, at any rate!) "We have much to learn; but we know enough to spur us on
                  to acquire more. More knowledge, more experience, more fowls. We have n't
                  enough—we don't know enough, yet. I am greatly rejoiced at the prospects, to-day,
                  and with the entire success of this enterprise, here!" (And well he might be.) "I
                  have freely given my time and humble talents to its consummation, and we have
                  triumphed! We, the people, the men who have the heart and the pluck
                  to undertake and carry through this sort of thing. There's no hum in
                     this, gentlemen! None, whatever. How can there be? We
                  see this thing before our very eyes. It is a tangible, living, breathing, walking,
                  crowing" (and he might have added eating!) "reality, ladies and
                  gentlemen. There can be no humbug in anything of this sort; because we can take
                  hold upon it, handle it, view it with our eyes open. A humbug is but an
                  unexplained or half-concluded fact. This is a self-evident,
                  clearly-defined fact— 
                     'A thing that is—and to be blessed!'
                   And when you, or I, can take a crower in our hands that will weigh twelve or
                  fourteen or fifteen pounds,—when we can see and feel him,—can there, by any
                  possibility, be humbug in it?"
               "No—no—no!" shouted the crowd; the ladies kindly joining in the decisive negative
                  given to this forcible appeal.
               "Then, I repeat it, we are but just in the beginning of the commencement of this
                  new and promising era. The fire has just begun to burn, and to illumine the world;
                  and, as I said before (or intended to say), it is not to be subdued! It is a
                  mighty conflagration, which assails everybody at this moment, and is now
                  enveloping all classes of the community, from the highest to the lowest! This land
                  is in a blaze! In a threatening, exciting, violent, whirling, astounding blaze,
                  gentlemen—and no opposition or invention can put it out!" ("Fetch on your
                  fire-'nihilators, then!" shouted a vicious wag, from the gallery.)
               "We don't want to put it out," continued Mr. Barnum, growing warmer as the fire of
                  his zeal in this cause continued to glow within him; "we have no wish to put it
                  out. Let it burn! Let it come! Let it conflagrate! We love it—you
                  love it—I love it—it's one of the things we admire to think of, and
                  speak of, and read of, and pay for, and help to keep alive here, and everywhere,
                  and elsewhere! Our country is big enough; we have millions of broad acres, miles
                  on miles of fertile fields, and cords of maize and grain that cannot be used or
                  disposed of, unless it be devoted to the uses and benefits of these beautiful
                  birds, sometimes so cavalierly spoken of by their enemies, but the value of which
                     I know, and most of you, gentlemen, know how to
                     appre- ciate!" (Applause, and cries
                  of "Go it, old hoss! You'll be a capital customer for some of the hen-men to pick
                  up! Go it, Barnum!")
               "I did not rise, gentlemen," continued the speaker, "with any idea of telling you
                  anything new. I am but an humble coadjutor with you in this pleasing and innocent
                  undertaking. I can see, as you can, also, the importance of this subject" (he did
                  n't say what "subject"), "and I trust that we may go on, and
                  increase, and multiply domestic fowls and customers, in a ratio commensurate with
                  the rapidly increasing throbs of the public pulse—which is now beating only at
                  2.40, and which must soon reach a 2.10 pace, if nothing breaks!" ("Hurra! Hurra!"
                  yelled the boys; "that's a good 'un!") And the President sat down, blushing, amid
                  the uproarious applause that followed his remarks.
               As soon as order was comparatively restored, other gentlemen, whom the President
                  introduced as "honorable," and "talented," and "professional," and "influential,"
                  took the rostrum, and "followed suit" upon Barnum's lead.
               A vote of thanks was finally passed to Mr. Barnum for his services, and the
                     sacrifices he had made in behalf of the "Society;" another to the
                  "orator" of the day (whose name I have now forgotten), formerly a member of
                  Congress, I believe; another similar vote to the Secretary, to whom, also, a
                  plated jug was subsequently presented; a vote to Mr. Burnham, of Boston, for his
                  speech and his "magnificent" contributions of pure-bred stock; a vote
                  condemning everybody who had or should thenceforward nickname fowls; a vote of
                  condolence and sympathy with John Giles, because none of his pure
                  Black Spanish fowls were in the exhibition; a vote to Porter, of the New York
                     Spirit of the Times, for his disinterested notices of the show;
                  another to Greeley, of the Tribune, who had n't time to visit it;
                  another to pay the bills of the "Committees" at the Astor House (minus the champagne charges!); another to Dr. Bennett,
                  for not being present at this show; another endorsing the claims of patent
                  pill-venders and cross-grained bee-hive makers; another to Frank Pierce, for the
                  allusions in his inaugural to the "march of progress" in our land, which of course
                  included Shanghae-ism; another to Caleb Cushing (an honorary member), who was
                  lauded as the most thoroughly graceless humbug known to the "national" society;
                  another endorsing the collector and postmaster of Boston as disinterested
                  democrats; another that my "Grey Shanghaes" were evidently the only full-blooded
                  fowls exhibited at the American Museum on this occasion; and numerous other
                  resolves were duly "voted," of which no note was taken at the time.
               While this bosh was transpiring, I sent to Boston for some fifty pairs more of my
                  "superb" specimens of Shang- haes and
                  Cochins, all of which were disposed of during the second week of this show, at
                  curiously "ruinous" rates. And at the close of the exhibition my agent had taken
                  very nearly three thousand dollars for the "pure" Shanghaes, and
                  Cochins, and Greys, he had sold there for my account!
               I trust that every one was as well satisfied with the results of this first
                  exhibition of the "National Poultry Society" as I was. It is the last show
                     I shall ever attend. And having invariably taken the lead, from
                  the beginning up to this trial, I retired, content with the self-assurance that I
                  had made all I could make out of this sort of thing, and that the field now
                  legitimately belonged to my juniors in the profession. May success attend
                  them!
               At the close of the exhibition, my friend Barnum congratulated me.
               "They tell me you've done well, Burnham," said my friend, cheerfully.
                  "I'm glad of it. And, since you've made it so handsomely, suppose you leave me a
                  couple of your best Fancy Rabbits, yonder; I'll add them to the 'Happy
                  Family.'"
               "Certainly," I replied. "With great pleasure, B——. And, since you
                  have done so capitally with this show, you shall give me a quarter of your profits
                  on the tickets sold. Here—take the rabbits!"
               "A-hem!" said Barnum. "No—no. It's no mat- ter. You need n't—no—we
                  won't say anything about it. It's all right. You'll do. You can run alone, I
                  guess. I believe I don't spell my name right! Good-by—good-by."
               I have n't seen friend Barnum since.
               At this exhibition of poultry I managed to show a pair of my pure-bred Suffolk
                  pigs, too, which did not set me back any. I took numerous orders for these
                  animals, and I have given on page 174 what passes for a likeness of a fancy
                  "Shanghae" fowl, such as we "read of in the newspapers," and which everybody,
                  during the last five years, imagined he was buying, when he ordered "such," after
                  seeing the "pictur'."
               In this class of illustration, there was quite as much deceit and chicanery
                  practised, commonly, as in any part of the general system of the humbug. The
                  uninitiated saw the well-rounded forms of the huge fowls or hogs he sought, in his
                  weekly agricultural journal, from time to time; and, through the same channel, he
                  met with "portraits," represented to have had originals at some time or other, and
                  which were said to be in the possession of this or that breeder, who "had been
                  induced, after earnest solicitation, to part with a very few choice samples," out
                  of such imaginary stock. With the swine, the thicker the ham, the
                  smaller the feet, the shorter the nose, and the thinner the hair, the better and the purer blooded
                  pig you got, for instance!
               The following is a sample of this kind of guy, which has had its run in the past
                  three years, and upon which tens of thousands of dollars have been squandered by
                  enthusiastic admirers of these bloated bladders of lard. This is
                     supposed to be a likeness of the "genuine"
               
                  
                     SUFFOLK PIG.
                  
               
               The good old lady replied, when asked if she loved the Lord, "I donno much about
                  him, but I hain't nothin' agin him!" So I affirm in reference to this hog. But one
                  thing I may be permitted to remark in this connection; to wit, that the more pure
                  Suffolk pigs there are, the less corn you find round.
                  That's all!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               A SUPPRESSED SPEECH.
               THE following remarks, on the occasion referred to, were neither published at the
                  time, nor would the "Committee on Printing" admit them into the official report of
                  the proceedings of this national show. For what reason, I am utterly
                  unable to determine. These were the author's sentiments, and I give the speech a
                  place here, because I have no idea of being thus "headed" by my
                  colleagues in that enterprise. This speech was delivered by the Young 'Un "with
                  emphasis and discretion;" but the managers suppressed it. I now submit it, in the
                  hope that it will be duly appreciated. When called upon, I said, as modestly and
                  as gracefully as I knew how:
               "MR. PRESIDENT: Vox populi, vox Dei! The people
                  assembled within the classic and well-painted walls of your American Museum call
                  upon me for a few words of encouragement; and, while I assure you I find myself
                  totally unprepared to speak (though my present address has been written some four weeks), I cheerfully respond to
                  the flattering demonstration that greets me on this electrifying occasion."
                  (Applause, and waving of hats and handkerchiefs.)
               "I am but an humble disciple in this profession, Mr. President, and know very
                  little of the deceit and chicanery that some persons charge others
                  with practising in the ramifications of the hen-trade; and, although it has been
                  said that 'what I don't know about this part of the business would n't be worth
                  much to anybody,' yet I here solemnly disclaim any superhuman or supernatural
                  knowledge of the tricks of this laudable and highly respectable calling." (Cries
                  of "Good, good! You're an injured man! Go on!")
               "For six years, Mr. President, I have carefully watched the progress of this
                  disease, and it really warms the recesses of my heart to find myself surrounded,
                  as I do to-day, by the highly honorable and respectable throng of gentlemen who
                  now grace this rostrum,—yourself, Mr. President, prominent among this galaxy of
                  talent, education, genius, morality, and thrift!" (Immense applause, during which
                  the speaker removed his outside coat.)
               "The day is auspicious, Mr. Barnum,—I beg pardon—Mr. President. The
                  spirit of liberty,—of American liberty,—sir, is abroad! To be sure, our valued
                  friends who pretend to Know Nothing (and whose pretensions none of us here, I
                  think, will gainsay) have commenced an onslaught upon almost everything of foreign
                  extraction; but they kindly permit us to import Chinese fowls, and
                  allow us to breed them—for the present, at least—without interruption; for which I
                  trust they may receive a unanimous vote of thanks from this American
                     National Poultry Society." ("Yes, yes!" followed this allusion,
                  with hearty cheers.)
               "I repeat it, sir,—the times are auspicious. Money is a drug in the market,
                  plainly. The patronage bestowed upon this show (in which, Mr. President, I am sure
                  your native modesty and national patriotism cannot suffer you to feel the
                  slightest personal interest) is evidence of this fact. The prices
                  paid here, in 1854, for domestic fowls—though so clearly below their actual
                  value!—supports this assertion: and your own entire lack of backwardness in coming
                  forward to assume the risk and responsibility of the expenses of this exhibition
                  is the crowning proof that l'argent is
                  plenty—somewhere, at least. I have no disposition, Mr. President,—far be it from
                  me—Heaven forbid that I should attempt—to offer one word of flattery, that you
                  might, by any possibility, appropriate personally. No, sir,—I am no such man! But,
                  if ever there was an individual whose pure-bred disinterestedness, whose
                  incomparable generosity, whose astonishing sacrifice of self, stuck out like a
                  sore thumb, these attributes have now been evinced, beyond the shadow of a shade
                  of question, on this exhilarating occa-
                  sion, through the astounding liberality of a gentleman, the initials of whose name
                  are Finnyous Tee Barman!" (Immense applause, during which the Young' Un laid aside
                  his dress-coat, and took off his cravat,—while the President, with both hands over
                  his face, sat overpowered with his emotions.)
               "Mr. President, I am no clap-trap orator. I shall say what I have to say, sir,
                  to-day, without any hope or aim towards future reward. To be sure, I have the
                  originals of the finest-blooded fowls in the land, and nobody disputes it; and I
                  have now a fine lot here to dispose of; but this is not the time or place to
                  allude to this matter; and I will only say that I do not charge so much for them
                  as many breeders do, while, at the same time, mine are very much finer and purer
                  than anybody else's, as can readily be seen upon examining the contents of my
                  cages, in the first room below this hall, on the right-hand side as you enter the
                  building. The people, sir, are in search of information on this interesting
                  subject; and I will only add, gentlemen,—call as you pass out, and judge for
                  yourselves." (Loud cries of "We will!—we will!" "That's true!" "That's a fact!"
                  "Your fame is firmly established!")
               "Mr. President, I have been too long a resident of these United States—I am too
                  old a citizen of this enlightened country—to be ignorant of the true character of
                  the American people. I am a Yankee, sir! My father was a Yankee, and my
                  grandfather (if I ever had one, sir), before him. 'The people' know what they are
                  about. You cannot deceive them, sir, as you and I well know. When
                  they undertake a thing, it must go forward. There's no stopping them, sir. They
                  enter into any enterprise that promises so much of universal success to the whole
                  country as does this business of poultry-raising, with a rush, sir! And they carry
                  out their objects,—nil disperandum hic jacit est glorii
                     mundi
                  morning, sir,—as the poet remarks." (Hurra! Hurra! "Three cheers for
                  Burnham," suggested the President, which were given with a will; and during which
                  the speaker removed his vest and braces,—carefully securing his watch, however, at
                  the same time.)
               "We are not here to be humbugged, sir, nor do we aspire to humbug anybody, at this
                  exhibition;—a performance which would be rather difficult to effect, in my humble
                  judgment, even if we did! We come here to show the people what has been done, what
                  is now doing, and what may be done again, sir, by our friends here, all of them
                  and any of them, who choose to undertake the pleasing and delightful task of
                  rearing pure-bred fowls. And, should there now be within the sound of
                  my voice any lady or gentleman who has never seen the tiny Shanghae chick as it
                  emerged from its delicate prison-shell and leaped forth into liberty and the
                  glorious sunlight,—should any one of my
                  listeners never have enjoyed the dulcet tone of that chicken's tender 'peep,'—if
                  any of you are strangers to the habits and beauties and innocence of these rare
                  but graceful birds,—if you have never listened to the melody of their musical
                  crow, from youth to green old age,—I will only say, procure some of the genuine
                  specimens, and there is much of joy and happiness yet in store for yourselves,
                  your wives, your children, or your friends,—if you chance to have any." (Applause,
                  and marked sensation.)
               "Mr. President, I am no speech-maker. Had I, for one moment, supposed that
                     I should have been thought of, by this talented and well-informed
                  audience, I should not have been present here, I assure you. But, sir, my fame
                  preceded me here. I'm a poor but honest man; and modesty, sir, that native modesty
                  which so preëminently characterizes your own composition, Mr. President (had I
                  suspected that I should have been called upon), would have prompted me to have
                  left to others the pleasing task of speaking of me and mine. Still, if my friends
                     'will buckle fortune on my back, whether I will or no,' I can only
                  say that I feel impressed that the duty and moral obligations I owe to society
                  compel me to submit to the burthen, with the best possible grace at my humble
                  command." (Deep sensation among the audience; the ladies, for the most part, in
                  tears.)
               "But, sir, the future is before us! The brilliant star of fortune still shines in
                  the distance, for the encouragement of those who have not yet availed themselves
                  of the splendid promise that awaits the men who are yet to come after us, to do as
                     we have done! And, to those who are now about to undertake the
                  commendable occupation of attempting to breed 'fancy poultry,' I will only say,
                  'Go on, gentlemen! Forward, in your delightfully pleasing and profit-promising
                  ambition! Purchase none but the best stock, without regard to price; and
                     breed it (if you can!) Everybody wants to buy,—everybody
                     will buy,—and the hens that lay the golden eggs are still for
                  sale, within the sound of my voice (unless they have all been bought up since I
                  entered this hall). But there are still a few more left, I have no doubt,
                  gentlemen; and, I charge you, seize them while you may!'"
               A general stampede followed my speech. I secured my clothes, and, for three hours
                  afterwards, I found it impossible to get within fifty feet of my show-cages, in
                  consequence of the throng of purchasers that crowded around them!
               There must have been some charm about those magical coops of mine. They were
                  filled and refilled, twenty times over; but they were as often emptied, and at
                  singularly gratifying prices, both to buyer and seller.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               A "CONFIDENCE" MAN.
               TOWARDS the close of this show in New York, a somewhat noted cattle-breeder (who
                  was then absent in England) wrote home to an agent in this country, directing him
                  to secure all the Grey Shanghaes obtainable, and further to contract for the
                  raising of hundreds or thousands more, to be delivered during the following
                  season.
               At this late day, such an undertaking appeared (to the initiated) to exhibit a
                  most extraordinary confidence in the reality of the hen-trade; but, to those who
                  "had been there," it was very amusing to witness the new-born zeal of this
                  curiously verdant purchaser, who invested so large an amount of money, in 1854, in
                  this hum!
               The most extravagant prices were paid by this person for Grey fowls, and large
                  orders were given by the agent, to different breeders, in New England, for future
                  supplies. Several hundred birds were then purchased, at rates varying from four or
                  five dollars to fifty dollars each; and finally some twenty cages
                  were filled, and consigned to London, to be disposed of (as it was supposed) at
                  enormous figures.
               This speculation was a total failure. The fowls were inferior, and sick, and
                  worthless. An auction sale followed quickly upon their arrival in England, the
                  proceeds of which failed to pay even their freight and expenses out from this
                  country; and the "confidential" proprietor of the stock, who had not the slightest
                  conception of the details of the trade, was the loser of hundreds of dollars by
                  this foolish and reckless undertaking.
               But his contracts with home breeders, who had raised for him one hundred, three
                  hundred, or five hundred pairs of chickens, each, were yet in statu quo! Two or three thousand Grey chickens were
                  awaiting this confident gentleman's orders, and in the mean time were devouring
                  huge quantities of corn and meal, then ranging at from a dollar to a dollar and
                  ten cents a bushel!
               Sales were merely nominal; buyers of fancy fowls were no whar; grain
                  continued on the rise; the chickens grew longer in the legs and necks, and
                  devoured more corn than ever; cold weather approached, and the breeders had no
                  conveniences for housing these thousands of monsters; and finally the victims
                  became importunate.
               The contractor didn't want the fowls. Of course he did n't. He had "put his foot
                  into it" with a vengeance! But the
                  parties who had raised these birds "to order" insisted upon the fulfilment of the
                  contractor's promise to take them, at four, six and eight months old.
               But the confident gentleman, who, in the spring of 1854, had made up his mind that
                  the "hen fever had but just then made its appearance, in fact," now
                  discovered that the bottom had been shaky for a twelvemonth, at the least, and had
                  at length fallen out altogether!
               The folly of this enterprise was apparent to every fowl-raiser in New England,
                  from the outset. But this man knew what he was about,—so he declared,—and he
                  scouted the advice of those who, from long experience, were able to instruct and
                  advise him better. It was but a single instance of its kind, however, and it
                  served, for the time being, to aid in keeping up the excitement of the humbug
                  which had cost so many men before him large sums of money, and months of labor and
                  care, without the slightest subsequent compensation.
               By the fall of 1854, the price of this "fancy stock" began to approximate towards
                  its intrinsic level, somewhat, in consequence of its being thus overdone; and very
                  fair birds were offered for five to seven dollars the pair, with but few
                  purchasers.
               In England, the fever had subsided. During the spring and summer, my own sales for
                  that market had been continuously, and without any abatement, extremely liberal;
                  but the prospect suddenly became clouded—the demand fell off—and I saw that the
                  gate was about to be shut down.
               The jig was nearly up, evidently, in December, 1854. In all the suburban towns of
                  this state, and more especially throughout the entire length and breadth of Rhode
                  Island and Connecticut, immense numbers of the Chinese varieties of fowls were
                  being bred; and I saw, months before, that the market must of necessity be
                  glutted, to the full, in the winter that was then approaching. Many of the
                  experienced fanciers still clung to the hope that the trade would rally again,
                  however,—but I was satisfied that the engine-bell had rung for the last time, and
                  that the train was already now on the move.
               
                  
                     A "PURE-BRED" SPECIMEN, IMPORTED FROM BRIGHTON.
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               THE ESSENCE OF HUMBUG.
               DURING this and the previous years, some of the older fanciers and breeders had
                  resorted to the most fulsome and nonsensical style of advertisements, to push off
                  their stock upon the unguarded. No quality of superlative goodness, known or
                  unknown, that could be described in the English language (either by means of
                  "communications" through the public prints, or by ordinary forms of advertising),
                  was omitted to be proclaimed by the owners of fancy stock, in order to force off
                  upon the credulous or the uninitiated their "newly-imported" stuff, and its
                  progeny.
               High-sounding but most ridiculous titles were given, by the nominal "importers,"
                  to their live stock; and the public were asked to purchase "Hong-Kong" fowls,
                  "Bengal Eagle" chickens, "Wild Indian Mountain" hens, "Whang-tongs,"
                  "Quittaquongs," "Hoang-Hos," "Paduas," etc.; and the following advertisement
                  appeared, finally, to cap the climax of this inexpressibly stupid non- sense. It
                  was printed in an agricultural monthly issued somewhere in western New York, and
                  it ran as follows:
               
                  "MORMANN & HUMM, Importers and Exporters of, and Dealers in, all breeds and
                     varieties of Blooded Live Stock, Big Falls, N. S. Messrs. Mormann and Humm are
                     now perfecting their arrangements for importing from Europe and
                     Asia all the best breeds of Horses, Cattle, Hogs, Dogs, Sheep, Rabbits, Goats,
                     Fowls, &c. &c., and for exporting Buffalo, Elk, Deer,
                     Moose, Badgers, Bears, Foxes, Swifts, Eagles, Swans, Pelicans, Cranes, Loons,
                     &c. &c. They will keep on hand, as near as may be, all the best Blooded
                     Animals and Fowls—gallinaceous and aquatic—fancy and substantial—which they
                     will furnish to their numerous patrons in Europe and America at reasonable
                     rates. All orders should be directed to Big Falls, N. S., until otherwise
                     notified.
                  "Also, they have imported the finest and only PTARMAGINS ever introduced into
                     the United States. These surprisingly beautiful fowls are direct from the
                     original stock. The Ptarmagins—white in winter and ash-colored in summer—booted
                     and tufted—are the most unique of domestic fowls. They will supply orders for
                     Ptarmagin chickens; also, Hoang-Hos, Imperials, Falcon-hocked Cochins, (!) and
                     a large variety of Improved Suffolks and other fine hogs, from the choice
                     stocks of His Royal Highness Prince Albert, His Grace the Duke of Beaufort,
                     Lord Wenlock, the Earl of Radnor, late Earl of Ducie, Rev. Mr. Thursby, Mr.
                     Garbanati, &c. &c. Also some choice Chinese Mandarin and Siamese hogs,
                     &c. &c. &c."
               
               In this same pamphlet, appeared the annexed communication (in the form of a letter
                  to the nominal publisher), which will explain itself, probably, to those who are
                  acquainted with its hifalutin author. It was a rich "card," in the estimation of the "boys," at the time of its
                  first appearance, though nobody ever saw this extraordinary beast or its progeny,
                  I imagine:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Chinese Mandarin Hogs.
                              "—— ——, Nov. 7, 1854.
                              "FRIEND M——:
                           
                           "We have just purchased the lot of Chinese Mandarin
                                 Swine, imported, &c. &c. &c.
                           "This is the best breed of China hogs, and are great favorites with
                              the inhabitants, the meat being remarkably tender and
                                 fine-flavored. At maturity they weigh from fifteen to
                              eighteen score, and are very prolific.
                           "The head and face of these animals very closely resemble an elephant,
                              both as to the appearance of the skin and ears, and the number and
                              depth of facial fissures; perfectly unique, and strikingly oriental in
                              capital aspect.
                           "The neck is longer than that of anything of the hog race, imparting a
                              most singular appearance to the proportions of the whole animal.
                           "These Chinese hogs are entirely different from anything of the sort
                              ever imported into this country before, and are the most prolific of
                              the swine race. The imported sow and each of the sow-pigs have
                                 eighteen well-developed dugs. The number of
                              well-defined dugs is always the best prima
                                 facie evidence of prolificness in any animal.
                           "The bodies of these hogs are shaped like the white
                              Berkshire breed of England. They take on fat with remarkable rapidity,
                              and, in color, though not so spotted as the leopard, these hogs are
                              beautifully striated, the body spotted like polished alabaster and
                              ebony, checkered and rounded most exquisitely.
                           "We shall have an engraving of these animals for the northern
                              agricultural papers, and one of the great English periodicals.
                           
                              Yours, truly,
                              —— & ——."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The editor adds, cautiously, "The importers are gentlemen of strict probity and
                  honor, so far as our knowledge extends; but, in these hurrying times, when the
                  public excitement is up on any kind of stock, a man may import and
                  sell worthless animals, to a great extent, before a reäction can take place."
               Now, this sort of mush and moonshine very soon nauseated upon the stomachs of "the
                  people," even; who ordinarily can (and will) patiently submit to a vast deal of
                  mummery. But when such palpable bosh as this is placed before them, they are apt
                  to dodge all association with it and its clearly-expressed humbuggery; and so the
                  tide now very quickly began to turn against the trade. "Brahmas," and
                  "Quittaquong" fowls, and "Mandarin" pigs, proved too threatening a dose for the
                  masses! They had n't time to spell out the names of such stock—to say nothing of
                  purchasing it, at round figures, and attempting to breed it
                  afterwards.
               What those men imagined they could possibly effect by this sort of ridiculous
                  nonsense, I am unable to conceive of. Yet it was put forth in sober earnest; and
                  scores of similar advertisements filled the papers, from time to time—each having
                  for its object the continuous gulling of the "dear people," each in its own
                  peculiar way.
               And for years—up to this period—the star-gazing, wonder-loving, humbug-seeking
                  portion of the community, —the mass who
                  fill every corner of the land, and who watch for something continuously "new under
                  the sun," out of which money can be made,—I say, for years, this portion of the
                  public believed what they saw and read of, and responded to this sort of thing
                  with a gusto equalled only by the zest with which, in years before, they had
                  encouraged and supported the score of other "hums" that had been current around
                  them.
               But the delusions of morus multicaulis, and Merino sheep, and patent bee-keeping,
                  and Berkshire pigs, and tulip-growing, had passed away; and the hen fever, at
                  last, subsided, too. Unpronounceable names and long-winded advertisements would
                  n't do! "The people" had ascertained that there was an end even to Shanghae and
                  Brahma-ism! And this flimsiest of all bubbles was now inflated fully
                  to bursting.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               A TRUMP CARD.
               NOT to be beaten by this sort of thing (since the columns of certain friendly
                  journals were still open to me), I adopted the style of advertising then current;
                  and soon after the articles noted in the last chapter made their appearance in the
                  "agricultural" paper alluded to, the following letter from the Young 'Un was
                  published in the New York Spirit of the Times, upon the subject of
                  live stock generally, and what I had for sale particularly.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "UNCLE PORTER:
                           
                           "During the last few years, I have turned my attention to trafficking
                              in stock (as you may possibly already be aware). Not
                              copper stock, or Reading, or Hoosac Tunnel, or similar 'bores,'—but in
                                 live stock; to wit, living stock. As is usual in this
                              great and free country, other people have got to doing the same kind
                              of business, since it has been now found to 'pay;' and who's a better
                              right?
                           "I desire, at the commencement of the new year, through
                              the Spirit, to call the attention of such of
                                 your
                               friends (as you cannot
                              supply readily) to my present assortment of ominus, omnivorous, carnivorous, graminivorous and
                              bipederous specimens—which I have imported from Europe, Asia, Africa,
                              Oceanica, South America, and other places; and
                              consisting, in part, of the following, namely:
                           "All the best and choicest breeds and varieties of horses, cattle,
                              swine, dogs, cats, sheep, rabbits, goats, fowls, pigeons, rats,
                              catamounts, hyenas, alligators, cormorants, kangaroos, grizzly bears,
                              antelopes, envelopes, llamas, lam-'ems, jaguars, fox and geese,
                              kinkajous, petrel, periwinkles, long-tailed rabbits, Nubian fennecs,
                              red eagles, condors, hooded ducks and hood-winked drakes, swifts,
                              sloes (intended for 'fast' men and old 'fogies'), chamois,
                              armadilloes, wingless emus, beadles, crabs, cranes, coons (bred from
                              'that same old 'un'), white zebras, macaws, catspaws, cantelopes,
                              carbuncles and shuttle-sewing machines.
                           "I also have, for exporting, a splendid assortment of
                              buffalo, elk, deer, moose, bears, cranes, owls, badgers, wood-chucks,
                              swans, pelicans, gulls (genuine), rattle-snakes (domesticated),
                              fighting hen-turkeys (from Iowa), larks (from Nauvoo), and a superior
                              assortment of fishes, of every conceivable size, color
                              and variety, which are warranted to live out of the water, in any
                              climate. In short I will keep on hand all the best 'blooded' animals,
                              fowls, quadrupeds, fishes, reptiles, insects and birds,—be they
                              gallinaceous, aquatic, aërial, fancy, substantial, good, bad or
                              indifferent, that may be had; which I will furnish to my numerous
                              friends, patrons, and the rest of mankind, in Europe, Asia, Africa or
                              America, at all hours of the day or night (Sundays excepted); and at
                              prices so reasonable that Christendom shall 'vote me' a
                              philanthropist, or no sale.
                           "Among my most recently received samples, I beg especially to call the
                              attention of fanciers, amateurs and breeders, to a 'vaggin-load of
                              monkeys, vith their tails burned off,' which I warrant will not
                              frighten the most skittish of horses. A crate of she-basilisks, of
                              most virtuous exteriors, and with eyes as large as saucers. Eleven pet
                              elephants (intended to have been offered to Mr. Barnum, but who
                              informs me that he has done breeding them, on account of the high
                              price of provender). One pair of red ostriches,—supposed to be the
                              original progenitors of the famous 'Cochin-China' race of poultry.
                              (The male has a 'horse-shoe mark' upon his breast, described by
                              certain modern authors on poultry. Unluckily for this theory, however,
                              I happen to know that this individual was kicked by a mare of mine,
                              while the beauty was skulking behind her, and attempting to rob her of
                              the corn she was eating from her crib.) I have a trio of very healthy
                              walruses, from Norway, that will eat snowballs from your hand. Also, a
                              brace of young mastodons, very docile, and as easily kept,
                                 almost, as a trio of 'Brahma Pootras.' Three
                                 green swans (delightfully green), that never seek for
                              or approach the water; supposed not yet to have learned to swim. I have
                              also in my collection a family of very curious chameleons (believed to
                              be), but none of which are supplied with the usual caudal extremity
                              yclept a tail.
                           
                           "My friend Durivage—who, as you are aware, is now in the Boston
                              Custom-house, and whose opinion, consequently, isn't worth
                              much—examined this family, and at once pronounced them hop-toads! But
                              I don't mind his jokes. You must see them.
                              They are beautiful creatures, and 'do live on air,' I
                              assure you; I have seen them do it frequently, without changing color.
                              Dr. Bennett, of Fort des Moines, has recently sent me a fine male
                              porcupine,—a nice little fellow to handle, so long as you rub his
                              feathers the right way,—which I purpose to cross upon my Chinese
                              Mandarin sow, at a future day, for experiment. In addition to all
                              these, I have, of fowls, the Mum-chums, HongKongs,
                              Whamphoas, Quittaquongs, Hoanghos, Bramapooters, Damphules,
                              Rocky-mountain-Indian-wharhoops, Nincompoops, etc., and an endless
                              variety of white blackbirds, sleeping weasels, very fine mules (for
                              breeding), fan-tail tumblers and tumbling fantails, no-woolled sheep,
                              etc. etc., and so forth.
                           "The principal object of this communication, however, is
                                 not to particularize my stock, but rather to call
                              attention to my new breed of HOGS, which I have lately imported; and
                              of which I send you a striking likeness herewith. I call it the
                              Chinese Mandarin Hog.
                           
                              
                                 THE CHINESE MANDARIN HOG.—(See page 234.)
                              
                           
                           
                           "The drawing of this very faithful and life-like picture—copies of
                              which I have already forwarded to Punch, the Paris
                                 Charivari, etc.—was executed by Phizz; the engraving
                              is by Quizz; the portraits are perfect.
                           "This breed of hogs is most extraordinary; and has been pronounced of
                              great value for their beautiful model (see portrait), and easy
                              fattening qualities. Their meat is also remarkably tender and
                              fine-flavored, as can be proved by several gentlemen in this country,
                              although this is the first hog of the kind ever brought
                              here, and she is now alive! As you will note in the drawing, the head
                              and face of these hogs (supposing it possible that another could be
                              found on God's footstool of the same kind) very closely resemble an
                              elephant; perfectly unique, and strikingly oriental in capital aspect.
                              (Which, if you do not understand, I can only say is plain English, and
                              I must again refer you to the picture.) There is another singular
                              feature, you will probably have observed (allowing that you are
                              somewhat acquainted with the ordinary formation of
                              animals), and that is, that the trunk of this animal is upon the wrong
                              extremity; but it answers, apparently, a very good purpose for a tail,
                              as will be noted. True, the neck is longer than that of any hogs ever
                              seen here, imparting a singular appearance; but it is a long lane that
                              has no turn in it, and so n'importe
                              on this point.
                           "This is the most prolific of the whole swine race. There
                              never was one in America before, but this point is settled. She has
                              eighteen dugs (see portrait), and learned doctors inform us that the
                              number of dugs (teats) is always evidence of prolificness. The bodies
                              of these hogs are like the white 'Berkshires' of England
                              (admitting that the white and the black Berkshires have
                              different-shaped bodies). In color, though not so spotted
                              as the leopard, these hogs are beautifully striated, like polished
                              alabaster and ebony, checkered and rounded (see drawing) most
                              exquisitely, like a slice of mouldy sage cheese.
                           "P. S. Although I am now short—or shall be, in the spring—full eleven
                              thousand pairs of pigs, from this sow (to fill present orders), yet I
                              will undertake to furnish a few more to gentlemen who may fancy them,
                              at the advanced price,—seven-and-sixpence per pair. (I have no
                                 boar of this breed, but that is immaterial.)
                           "N. B. I have frequently been asked to account for the singular facial
                              appearance of this sow; but I can only do so, satisfactorily to
                              myself, upon the theory of my friend Jacob, of old; that, at
                                 some time or other, her mother must have 'seen the
                              elephant'!
                           "*** The other figures in the accompanying drawing are likenesses,
                              also from life, of my harmless and beautiful 'Bramerpootrers.' They
                              are very fond of little children (see picture), and I send to my uncle
                              William Porter, herewith, as a New Year's Gift to our mutual friend,
                                 Solon Robinson, a very
                              fine sample, with the gentle hint that if he keeps his 'Hot Corn' as
                              far out of this fellow's reach as it has thus far been out of mine, it
                              will be perfectly safe.
                           "All orders for my famous 'Bramerpootrers,' or my imported 'Chinese
                              Mandarin Hogs,' etc., must be put in water-proof condition, post-paid,
                              endorsed by the collector of this port, and sent, by Adams & Co.'s
                              Express, to Niagara Falls, until I conclude to remove to Salt Lake,
                              Nebraska, or 'elsewhere,' of which due notice will be given (provided
                              I don't decide to 'step out' between two days). Adios!
                           
                           
                              Yours,
                              "The YOUNG 'UN.
                              "Boston, Jan., 1854."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Now, the above letter explains itself fairly, upon its face; yet—would it be
                  believed?—I actually received four or five sober (I presume the
                  writers were sober) letters of inquiry, relating to the "curious and remarkable
                  Chinese Mandarin Hog in my possession," immediately after the above article
                  appeared in the Spirit! Such are the knowledge and acquirements of
                  "the people," in certain quarters, upon the subject of live stock!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               "HOLD YOUR HORSES."
               MY competitors in the hen-trade, by this time, had got to be exceedingly active
                  and zealous, though they rarely indulged in personalities towards me, at all.
                  Generous, disinterested, liberal, kind-hearted, valiant men! Providence will
                  reward you all, I have no doubt, some day or other!
               
               The following article, which appeared in a "respectable" agricultural sheet
                  (which, though I was solicited so to do, I neither subscribed for nor advertised
                  in), I offer here as a sample of the puffs that were extended to me for five
                  years, by the small-fry humbugs whom I rarely condescended to notice. This
                  "elegant extract" appeared in a northern Farmer:
               
               
                  "We did suppose that the strait-jacket we fitted to this fellow (Burnham) would
                     be worn by him, but it appears that, on reading our article relative to his
                     movements in England in regard to Grey Shanghae fowls, he cast it off, and made
                     an attempt to put us hors du combat, in his
                     usual style.
                  
                  "But we must say that his pretensions to being an 'importer' of
                     these fowls, to having the 'original' stock, to being the importer
                     of the fowls he sent to England, is the greatest deception that ever came under
                     our observation. But this is only in character with the general transactions of
                     the man. In his dealings generally he seems to have had no other object in view
                     but to get all he could for his fowls, with no regard to their
                        merits. This is shown by a letter of his, which we have in our
                     possession, written in 1852 to Dr. Bennett, in which he uses the following
                     language, in regard to fowls: 'Anything that will sell,—bah!
                  "We will take the liberty to digress a moment, to make a few remarks on his
                     penchant for the use of the expression 'bah!' which is his common
                     habit in correspondence. When Burnham was a loafer at large, previous to his
                        foul speculations, it is said that he was very fond of
                        mutton; and as many a fat lamb was missed in the vicinity where
                     he resided, it was more than suspected that he knew what became of them.
                     Whether this be so or not, it seems that 'bah' is ever escaping
                     from his lips, a judgment, as it were, for the alleged iniquity of disturbing
                     the nocturnal peace of that quiet animal. * * * *
                  "Now, friend Burnham, do be civil and honest. Your having sold
                     'premium' Cochins all over the country, with the real 'premium'
                     fowls in your own yard, will soon be forgotten, and you may yet be considered a
                     clever, honest fellow; but you must stop pretending to be an
                     'importer' of fowls."
               
               I was thus charged with putting my "friend" hors du
                     combat, with lying generally, with sheep-stealing, with selling
                  "premium" fowls over and over again, as well as with striving to get all I
                     could for my poultry,—this last offence being the most
                  heinous of all! But, as I lived (as I supposed I should) to see this cub and his
                  allies on their knees to me (as I could show, if I desired to do so, now), I did
                  not mind these first-rate notices. They were most decidedly of miner
                  consideration in my esteem, when I thought how "the people" crowded around me to
                  obtain eggs or samples of my famed "imported," "superior," "magnificent" and
                  "never-to-be-too-much-lauded" pure-bred fowls!
               In the official Report upon the first New York show, the Committee of Judges there
                  state that, "though they have been governed by the nomenclature of the list, they
                  by no means assent to it as a proper classification. Shanghae and
                     Cochin-China are convertible terms, and Brahma Pootra is a name
                  for a sub-variety of Shanghaes, of great size and beauty. White
                     Calcuttas and Hong-Kongs were not on exhibition.
                  Believing them to be inferior specimens of White and Black Shanghaes, it is likely
                  that we would not have awarded them premiums, if found. In lieu thereof, we have
                  assigned several additional second premiums for Brahma Shanghaes.
               
               "For the sake of simplicity, we would recommend that all
                  thorough-bred large Asiatic fowls be classed under the name of
                     Shanghae, to be further designated by their color; and, inasmuch
                  as these shows are intended not solely for the aggrandizement of breeders, but for
                  the purpose of converting 'Henology' into a science, we would earnestly suggest that all ridiculous, unmeaning
                     aliases be abandoned, and a simple,
                  intelligible and truthful classification strictly observed." After quoting this,
                  the writer above alluded to objects to the recommendation to call all
                  Asiatic fowls Shanghaes, notwithstanding the action of the Committees
                  of the National Society. He insists:
               
                  "This is a ridiculous affair, and we call on fowl-breeders to veto
                     this nonsense at the outset. Just imagine what a ridiculous figure breeders
                     would cut in calling their fowls 'Brahma Shanghaes,'
                        'Chittagong Shanghaes,' &c.! Why this desire to overturn
                        established names? It arises from a prejudice
                     against the name 'Brahma Pootra,' and a desire to put
                        down that popular breed. Again: Who are the gentlemen
                     who recommend such a course? Why don't they give their names?
                     These 'recommendations' and 'resolutions' are no more the act of the
                        National Poultry Society than of the Emperor of Russia! Where
                     were the forty MANAGERS when the above 'resolution' was passed?
                        We, as one, were not there; and we learn that not
                     over three out of the entire number were present, and that the
                     resolution was passed by outsiders, and, perhaps, influenced to do
                     so by G. P. Burnham, of 'Grey Shanghae' notoriety."
               
               This clown even "regrets that he did not attend this show;" as if it would have
                  made a difference in the result! Well, well!—the impudence and ignorance of some
                  people really astound us, at times! He says "some of the best Brahma Pootra fowls
                  were entered 'Chittagongs.' Now, we declare emphatically that the desire on the
                  part of cer- tain breeders to class the Brahmas as identical with the
                     Chittagong fowl is absurd; and we assert that no man can produce
                  any evidence that the Brahmas are identical with Chittagongs, beyond the fact that
                  many breeders have produced mongrels, by crossing Brahmas with Chittagongs, and
                  now seek to amalgamate the two breeds."
               Who ever wished to "produce any evidence" on this subject, pray? "The people"
                  wanted fowls; they never sought for "evidence," man! The breeder who could
                  "produce" fowls was the man to succeed in the hen-trade. As you never did this,
                  and only bought and sold wretched mongrels, with long names, you never succeeded.
                  And "the people" said, "Served you right!"
               This sapient editor then declares that he "doubts the ability of any
                     Poultry Society to maintain its existence
                     permanently, for the reason that such societies will, sooner or
                  later, degenerate into mere speculating cliques, and the premiums
                  will become a matter of barter, or a matter of favor to
                  particular men, like the operations of our government."
               Is it possible! When did you discover this extraordinary and singular fact, my
                  dear sir? Not until the close of the year 1854! After the cars had long since
                  passed by, and the fun was over, effectually and forever, in this country. Your
                  warning was valuable, indeed! The colt had left the stable, and you
                     now come to fasten the door! O, chief of prophets in Henology! how much "the people" owe you
                  for your advice and foresight in this hum!
               This writer finally thus wriggles over the action of the "National" Society at New
                  York, which knocked his "Bother'ems" on the head so effectually, substituting
                  their true name (the "Grey Shanghaes") for this ridiculously assumed cognomen. He
                  continues:
               
                  "The most absurd thing which came under our observation at the fair was the
                        classification of certain fowls. There were the beautiful white
                     Brahmas, with pencilled neck hackles, placed by the side of fowls of an owl or
                     hawk color, and both classed 'Grey Shanghaes!' How long will a few
                     old fogies thus stultify themselves? Many exhibitors were highly displeased
                     with this absurdity. They who think that the name of Brahma fowls can be
                     changed to 'Grey Shanghaes' have entirely mistaken their ability to make such
                     an innovation. What did all the nonsense in the resolutions passed at the
                     National Poultry Show in New York about the nomenclature of fowls effect? Just
                     nothing at all."
               
               Indeed! Didn't it? Is it possible? You don't say so! My dear friend, you have a
                  great deal to learn yet; and I here advise you, affectionately and lovingly, and
                  with an ardent desire for your present and future good, to—"hold your horses!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               TRICKS OF THE TRADE.
               POULTRY exhibitions had been or were now being held all over the country. In the
                  New England States, in New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia,
                  numerous fairs had come off, at which the customary competition among breeders of
                  fancy poultry had been duly shown; and for a time, yet, out of Massachusetts, the
                  fever still raged, though with comparative abatement.
               It was now a common thing, and certain men were in the habit of visiting the
                  express offices, and examining coops of fowls, and taking the names of the persons
                  to whom they were directed, and then writing them that they would furnish such
                  fowls at a much cheaper rate. This occurred, generally, while the stock was
                     en route to its destination; but it never
                  disturbed me.
               
               Among the Rhode Islanders (who, by the way, generally speaking, have raised the
                  best of all the Chinese varieties of fowls, for five years past) a feeling of
                  desperate rivalry had grown up. At the Providence shows, many of the choicest specimens ever seen among us
                  were exhibited and disposed of at high rates. But the management of the fairs
                  there was not satisfactory to certain breeders, who, unfortunately, and naturally,
                  drove rather "to slow coaches" to keep pace with a few of the leaders in the
                  traffic there, as will be seen by the following exposé, which I find in the shape of an advertisement in the
                     Woonsocket Patriot:
               
               In a report published subsequently to this State Fair in Rhode Island, the
                  Committee on Poultry at the exhibition held there in the fall of 1854 awarded
                  their first premium to the chairman of the committee. The second
                  premium was awarded to another man, who had just as good fowls, probably, but who
                  wasn't smart enough to "keep up" with his competitor. The person who came out thus
                  second-best, only, at once charged, through the public prints, that an attempt had
                  been made by the chairman thus "to hoodwink the public" in their future purchases
                  (which was very likely, because it was a very common matter). The injured party
                  says, in his published "card,"—
               
                  "No doubt Mr. C—— was ready to grasp at the appointment as the committee, and
                     he was progressing in the examination, when I remonstrated, and had two other
                     men added to the committee with him, supposing that justice would then be
                     administered to the parties concerned. But Mr. C—— was determined to have the
                     sole arrangement of the report, contending with the other two upwards of five
                     hours, aggrandizing to himself the first premium, and then affixing to the
                     committee's report the name of Mr. A——, instead of his own, to deceive the
                     public, that he was not interested. Mr. C—— intended that justice should not be
                     done his competitor, by withholding his right as to the first premium; and I
                     challenge him to an impartial exhibition of the poultry (although some of his
                     number were borrowed), for the sum of one hundred dollars, to be decided by
                     three disinterested men."
               
               Another member of this committee then states that, "being one of the Committee on
                  Poultry at the late State Fair, held in Providence, R. I., and having seen the
                  report of the same, I feel it my duty to say that such was not the
                  decision of the committee. Two were in favor of giving to —— the
                     first premium; as we could not agree, we decided to award a
                  premium of twelve dollars to ——, also the same to Mr. C——, provided
                  each were represented equal in the report."
               Now, this was a very trifling affair to trouble the public with, yet it shows "how
                  the thing was done." Mr. C—— had a happy way of "laying 'em all out," when
                     I was not in the field. If the advertisements "to the public" were
                  paid for duly (and I presume they were), I have no doubt the public are satisfied;
                  and Mr. ——, the injured party, must keep his eyes open tight, if he trains in
                  company with experienced hen-men. This is but "a part of the system," man!
               Now, as this sort of thing was of very common occurrence among the hucksters who
                  kept the hen-trade alive, for years,
                  this was in nowise a matter of astonishment to the "hard heads" in the business.
                  The only wonder was that the man who performed this trifling trick
                  did not carry out the dodge more effectually, and bear away all the
                  premiums in a similar manner, as had been done by some of his smarter
                  predecessors!
               The editor of a New York journal undertook as follows to "inform the public" (in
                  1854) of a little performance in kind, which had been common for several years at
                  these fairs where "premiums" were awarded, and which proved a very profitable mode
                  of operation, almost from the very beginning of fowl-shows in the United States.
                  In an article upon a recent exhibition, under the caption "How the Cards are
                     Played," he says:
               "A fowl-breeder, by extraordinary means, raises a few specimens of
                  fowls of great size, which he takes to the exhibition; and, on the appearance and
                  character of those few specimens, he contracts to furnish fowls and
                  eggs of the 'same stock.' He goes home with his pockets full of orders, and with
                  not a single fowl, for sale, in his possession at the time, and
                  hastens to purchase of A, B and C, such fowls as he can find, say at $3, $5 to $10
                  a pair, which he sends to fill his orders at $20 to $50 a pair, and no nearer in
                  value to the stock that appeared on exhibition than a turkey is to a turkey
                     buzzard! The same of eggs. Now, there are exceptions to this
                  allegation. but we KNOW that such things are done, and we think that the public
                  should be put on their guard."
               There is no question about the accuracy of this statement. The writer says he
                     "knows that such things were done;" and I feel sure that no man in
                  New York State ever knew the details of this dodge so well as he did.
                  It was a very common thing everywhere, however, among the hucksters. I had no
                  occasion to resort to this plan; for the game we played was a deeper
                  one, altogether.
               There was a "live Yankee," all the way from Rhode Island, who attended the New
                  York show, who took the boys down there after the following style, as appears from
                  another advertisement, which I recently met with, and which feat is thus described
                  by one of the sufferers. In a "card" published soon after that exhibition, this
                  victim of misplaced confidence says, with a show of seeming injured innocence:
               
                  "Justice to the public, as well as myself, demands a slight explanation of a
                     few facts connected with the recent National Poultry Show, in New York
                     City.
                  "Mr. C——, of Woonsocket, R. I., accompanied me to New York for the purpose of
                     attending the fair. On the fourth day of the exhibition it was announced that
                     the judges were about to commence their labors. Mr. C——, seeing that his chance
                     for a premium of any kind on Asiatic fowls was very slim, came to
                     me and requested, nay, even insisted, on grounds of mutual
                     friendship, that I should put my two best hens with a cock of his, for the
                     purpose of taking the first premium. I finally consented, with the ex- press understanding, and no
                        other, that we should each share the honors and proceeds equally. On
                     Friday it was announced, in the lecture-room, that he had taken
                     the first premium on the best pair of Asiatic fowls, of whatever sub-variety. I
                     went to him, at once, and expressed my dissatisfaction, and reminded him of his
                     agreement. He then agreed to see the secretary and all the reporters, and
                     publish, or cause to be published, a card, stating that I was equally entitled
                     to the premium with himself, as the hens were raised by me; and he furthermore
                     agreed that his name should not be mentioned or published, in relation to the
                     premium, except in connection with my own. How was that agreement fulfilled? On
                     taking up one of the New York dailies the next morning, I was surprised to see
                     a puff laudatory of Mr. C——, while my name was not alluded
                     to,—which puff, report says, was paid for with a rooster. On my return home, a
                     few days afterwards, I found that he had volunteered to make the following
                     assertions: 'Well, I have laid 'em all out. I took the first premium on
                     everything, best pair and all, and I can beat the world.' When asked how it was
                     done, he said, 'I will tell you, some time, how I played my
                     card.'"
               
               But Mr. C——, with that reserve and indifference peculiar to gentlemen in the
                  hen-trade who have accomplished a "neat operation," did not see fit to explain the
                  process, and hesitated to inform his "friend" how he played his card. And so the
                  aggrieved party resorted to the newspaper, and come the "power of the press" upon
                  Mr. C——, as follows:
               
                  "Mr. C—— stated that my stock was 'mongrel,' and inferior. Whether it be so or
                     not, is for the thousands and tens of thousands who saw them, while on
                     exhibition, to judge. After selecting two of my best hens for Mr. C——'s
                     especial benefit (as it appears), the committee even then saw fit
                     to award me a premium, while his two coops of 'pure, full-blooded
                     Asiatic fowls,' which he had cracked up so loud and extensively, did not
                     receive, as I can learn, even a passing notice, except the old
                        cock, which was put in the coop with my 'mongrel hens,' as he is
                     pleased to call them. Perhaps the public would also be gratified to learn the
                     manner in which he obtained the first premium at the recent Agricultural Fair
                     in Providence, R. I. Was it not done by entering several coops of fowls,
                     belonging to another person, in his own name, without that person's knowledge
                     and consent, and pointing out those fowls to one or more of the judges,
                     representing them as his own? No doubt the books of the society, and those of
                     the railroad corporation which conveyed Mr. C——'s poultry to and from the fair,
                     if compared, will throw some light upon the subject. Is not this the manner in
                     which he has frequently played his card; or, in other words, 'laid 'em all
                     out'? As I have always treated him as a gentleman, a neighbor and friend, to
                     what cause can I impute this low, mean contemptible and underhand manner of
                     exalting himself at my expense? I would advise him, in conclusion, to peruse
                     Æsop's moral and instructive fable of the ambitious Jackdaw, and learn from
                     that, that however well a course of deception and duplicity may at first
                     prosper, the day of exposure and disgrace will come, and the ungainly Jackdaw,
                     stripped of his ill-gotten plumage, will stand forth in all his native
                     blackness and deformity."
               
               Now, I have no doubt, that this Mr. C——, when he read the above "card" (which must
                  have cost its author considerable time and money), felt very badly about it,
                     the more especially as the
                  show-prizes had been duly announced, and he had the premium-money safely in his
                  own pocket! And it certainly must have been a very gratifying circumstance, to the
                  man who had been thus duped, to see his advertisement thus in print, too. Had
                     I been similarly situated, however, after losing my premium and
                  the credit that belonged to my having had the best fowls on exhibition, also (only
                  by thus joining issue with another to gull the "dear people"), I rather think I
                  should not have published the facts, to show myself up a fool as well
                  as a knave. But this is merely a matter of taste. Mr. B——, who signs this "card,"
                  will scarcely be caught in this way again. We "live to learn."
               Mr. B—— had not become apprised of the fact that, from the very commencement, the
                  hen-trade was a huge gull, possessing an unconscionable maw, and most
                  inconceivable powers of digestion. Older heads and wiser men than he had been
                  duped or swallowed by this monster, that stalked about the earth for six long
                  years, seeking whom he might devour. If this is the worst treatment he ever
                  experienced at the hands of those who helped to feed the vampire, Mr. B—— is,
                  indeed, a fortunate man. There be those who would gladly exchange
                  places with this gentleman, and give him large odds.
               C—— was smart. I have known him for several years. He is one of the
                  few "hen-men" whom I would trust alone with my purse. And whether he raised them,
                  or purchased them, it matters nothing; he has sold some of the best
                  fowls in America.
               In all human probability, the author of the "card" last quoted will live long
                  enough (unless he shall have already stepped out) to know that "the people" went
                  into the hen-trade blindfolded, and that the bandages have now dropped from their
                  eyes. He will have ascertained, too, I think, that a resort to the newspapers for
                  redress against such of his "friends" as may get ahead of his time in this way is
                  precious poor consolation, when he reflects that advertisements cost money, and
                  that the anathemas of an overreached chicken-man have never yet been known to harm
                  anybody—as far as heard from! Selah!
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               FINAL DEATH-THROES.
               THE officers and the judges at the poultry-fairs (most of whom are
                  self-constituted), as will be seen, usually carried away all the first prizes. At
                  a late show of the New York State Society, the president thereof
                  received about one third of all the premiums awarded, and yet his
                  fowls were nearly all second and third rate, and not one
                  of them, it was stated, was bred by him. He may have bred a few
                  specimens during last season, but not one on exhibition was bred by
                  him. The people and certain greenhorns were astonished to see the way in which the
                  premiums were awarded to him. One of the judges there seemed determined to award
                  to him every premium that his influence could secure, right or wrong; and, from
                  what was learned from exhibitors, it did look very much like an existing
                  understanding between the parties in regard to the premiums.
               For the above statement we have the authority of a huckster in New York, who did
                     not obtain any premiums, and who says of the management of the
                  state show there, that this sort of partiality shown in favor of the wire-pullers
                  "is the rock on which the 'New England Poultry Society' foundered; and our state
                  society is treading in the footsteps of its 'illustrious predecessor.'"
               This writer contends that the president of the New York society, who thus received
                  about all the premiums at one of their late shows, was a man of too much
                  discernment not to see that such a farce as some of the judges played
                  would redound to his discredit. They went too far—over-did the
                  matter; hence the universal indignation of exhibitors. And then concludes that
                  "poultry-societies generally merge into mere speculating gatherings,
                  a few receiving most of the premiums, while the uninitiated exhibitor
                  is made a tool to swell the income of those who pull the wires. Many breeders
                  exhibit solely for the sake of the notoriety that their fowls will
                  receive,—a sort of gratuitous advertising,"—and it is now got to be
                  "notorious that an order sent to one who receives the first premium
                  for fowls is no more likely, in many cases, to be filled with any better fowls
                  than if sent to one who took no premium at all; as the prize fowls
                  are not often for sale, and very inferior specimens are sent when orders are
                  received."
               This information would have answered very well, had it been afforded years ago.
                  Now that the fever has disappeared almost entirely, and now that everybody has
                     been gulled, and gouged, and
                     gorged, with the fulsome and glowing accounts of the asserted
                  reality of this thing, from the pen of this very man among the rest, it comes
                  rather late in the day for such an one to "warn the people," and in such a
                  manner!
               But, soon after the exhibition above referred to had closed, the president of the
                  society issued a most astounding "card," declining to receive the
                  premiums awarded him, and in which appears the following sentence:
               
                  "In connection with the report of the Judges of the late State Poultry Show,
                     allow me to make a statement. As appears from the report, my birds have been
                     unusually successful in the contest for premiums, sixteen out of twenty
                     distinct varieties exhibited being so honored. This was more than I expected,
                     and more than I honestly think they deserved. And I am strongly of opinion
                     that, had they had more time, they would have come to a different conclusion,
                     in two or three cases."
               
               I was prepared for almost anything in the hen-trade, up to this time; but this
                  performance really astonished me! The man actually refused to take
                  the premiums awarded him! He even went so far as to show the "judges" who
                     ought to have had the prizes, rather than himself. And he actually
                  sent back to the committee the money they forwarded to him after the exhibition
                  was over!!
               Now, if this were not sufficient to astonish "the people," I am very much in error
                  regarding the ordinary strength of their nerves. It was an almost immaculate
                  performance; and the "New York State Poultry Society" should positively insist
                  that this extraordinary man (if he can be proved to be sane) should at once accept
                  from them one of the largest-sized leather medals, to be worn next to his gizzard,
                  for this unexampled disinterestedness, and extraordinary sacrifice of self. O, but
                     that gentleman must be "a brick," indeed!
               A journal that alluded to this singular circumstance, at the time, asserted that
                  this procedure on the part of the president "was highly commendable in the author,
                  if his statements were made through principle, rather than through
                  fear to encounter public opinion. He stands high in the estimation of
                  the public, and we have ever considered him as strictly honorable in all his
                  business transactions; but we cannot help thinking that 'a screw was loose'
                  somewhere in the matter. His statements are not very flattering to the judgment of
                  the judges, and show that some of them, at least, were not competent to discharge
                  their duties properly," etc.; while, in my opinion, than this, a more
                  barefaced piece of mush was never yet perpetrated, in the details
                  even of the hen-trade.
               This was emphatically among the "death-throes" of the mania. And cards like the following found their way into the newspapers, about this time, in
                  further proof that the valve of this huge balloon had slipped out. An ambitious
                  Western man says:
               
                  "I have long been expecting to hear of the swindling operations of a certain
                     dealer, who makes a great display of pretending to have
                        every breed known or bred in this country; and, to my
                        certain knowledge, buys all, or nearly all, of his fowls, as
                     wanted, and as many on credit as he can, but does not
                        pay, nor can the law reach him to make him pay. I
                     believe, also, that the papers that advertise for him are doing it for
                        nothing—that is, that they are not, and never will be paid for
                     it.
                  "Such a course, in my opinion, is no better than highway robbery; and I hereby
                     give said person fair warning to act honestly hereafter, or I will point him
                     out in a way that shall not be misunderstood, as I cannot see such rascality
                     perpetrated, and remain silent.
                  "A man who deals in high-priced fowls, in receiving pay in
                        advance, has his customers completely at his mercy, especially
                     when he is not responsible for a copper; and at the rates that
                     fowls sell for—say, from ten dollars to one hundred dollars a pair—purchasers
                     should receive what is promised them,—good specimens of the pure
                     breeds. So far as weight is concerned, a pair of fowls will fall
                     off a few pounds in a journey of a week or less, in a cramped
                     condition, and perhaps without food for a portion of the time; but in other
                     respects justice should be done to the confiding purchaser."
               
               Beautiful!—poetical!—musical! This advertiser, I have no doubt, keeps only
                     pure stock. I do not know who he is; but, if I wanted to buy
                  (which I don't), I should certainly apply to such an honest and justice-loving
                  person, because I should feel assured, after reading such an advertisement, that
                     that man was a professor of religion; and, even if he had the
                  chance, would never fleece me—over the left!
               
               Other fanciers, in their utter desperation (as the fever so positively and now
                  rapidly begun to decline), resorted to the printing of the pedigrees
                  of their stock; and the following advertisements made their appearance late in
                  1854:
               "By the influence of Mr. Ellibeth Watch (editor of the London Polkem
                     Chronicler, and uncle to the Turkish Bashaw with three long tails), I
                  have just procured a few of Prince Albert's famous breed of 'Windsor fowls.' In a
                  letter to me of the 32d day of April, Mr. Watch observes:
               
                  'I have positively ordered a trio of Windsor Fowls of Prince
                     Albert, for you. It is THE BEST BREED IN ENGLAND, and they are much run after,
                     and cannot be had without giving previous notice; but you are safe to have
                     yours. I have engaged a friend to choose yours for you; and I consider it
                        a great thing to get them direct from the Prince, for you must
                     be aware that persons generally cannot exactly pick and choose
                     FROM THE PRINCE'S OWN STOCK. I shall employ an efficient person to have them
                     shipped, etc.'"
               
               In due time this remarkable stock arrived in America, and their pedigrees were
                  duly published; the advertiser being "thus particular," because (as he asserted)
                     "there had been so much imposition
                  upon the public by irresponsible persons claiming to have made
                     importations"!
               Now I never entertained the slightest objections to this sort of
                  advertisement,—not I, i'faith! On the contrary, I deem all this kind
                  of thing very excellent, in its way, to be sure. The more the merrier. "The
                  people" want it, and let them have it, say I.
               But, at the same time, though the "Porte-Monnaie I owe 'ems" declare that their
                  unrivalled stock comes from Prince Albert's yards, I feel very well assured that
                  all this is a mere guy, it being very well known that His Royal Highness is not
                  engaged in the hen-trade particularly, and of course has something else to do
                  besides supplying even the "Porte-Monnaie Company" with his pigs and chickens.
               It was a rare undertaking, this importing live stock (with any expectation of
                  selling it) in the fall of 1854! But we shall soon see who were the final victims
                  of the "fever."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               THE PORTE-MONNAIE I OWE 'EM COMPANY.
               IT has been said, with much of truth, that "two of a calling rarely agree;" and
                  this applies with force to those engaged in the "hen-trade." Messrs. Mormann and
                  Humm, whom I have before spoken of, couldn't long agree together, and their
                  "dissolution" soon appeared; and, from the ashes of the professional part of this
                  firm, there suddenly arose an entirely new dodge, under the big-sounding title of 
                     "THE PORTE-MONNAIE I OWE 'EM COMPANY."
                  
               
               The presiding genius of this concern was one Doctor Bangit,—an old friend of mine,
                  who had been through wars enough to have killed a regiment of ghouls, who was
                  among the earliest advocates and supporters of the "New England Mutual Admiration
                  Society," who was one of the very first physicians employed in prescribing for the
                  hen fever in this country, and who, I supposed, had had sufficient
                  experience not to embark (at this late day) in such a ridiculous enterprise as
                  this so clearly seemed to be.
               
               But the doctor saw his victims in prospective, probably; and, though he had run
                  the hummery of the fowl-fever so far into the ground that, in his case, it would
                  surely never know a day of resurrection, still he was ambitious and hopeful; and
                  he flattered himself (and some others) that the last man who bought
                  live stock had not yet turned up! And so the doctor pushed on, once
                  more.
               The "BLOOD STOCK" of the "Porte-Monnaie I owe 'em Company"*
                     was thus advertised, also:
               
                  
                  *I trust that this association may not be confounded with the "Fort Des Moines Iowa Company." The difference will plainly be seen, of
                     course.
               
               "IN ADDITION to the genuine, unadulterated Prince Albert fowls, the 'Porte-Monnaie
                  I owe 'ems' offer pigs, with tails on, of the Winsor, Unproved Essex, Proved
                  Suffolks, Yorkshire, Wild Indian, Bramerpouter, Siam, Hong-Kongo, Emperor
                  Napoleons, and Shanghae Breeds; most of them of new styles, and warranted to hold
                  their colors in any climate.
               "Also, Welsh Rarebits—bred from their Merino buck 'Champum,' of England (that
                     didn't take the first prize at the National Show, because Mr.
                  Burnham's 'Knockum' did!), whose ears are each thirty-three feet longer than those
                  of our best pure-bred jackasses, and wider than five snow-shovels, by actual
                  measurement.
               "Also, A-quack-it fowls; as Swans (Porte-Monnaie
                  I owe 'em strain), Two-lice, Hong-gong, Brumagem and other Geese.
                  Ruin and Ailsburied Ducks, and Pharmigan Pigeons (blue-billed).
               "Also, every breed of Gallinaceous fowls,—Games and other bloods already
                  noted,—together with every species of pure and select blood-stock, which has been
                  secured in Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Arctic Ocean, with reference to QUALITY,
                  without regard to price.
               
               "We can furnish pedigrees to all buyers who desire them, which will be endorsed by
                  the faculty of Riply College, Iowa.
               "N. B. The 'Winsor' breed of pigs imported by us is a great addition to the
                  already fine hog stock of the United States, and is fully equal, if
                  not superior, to any other breed. They are the very choicest of the
                  royal stock which is so much admired in England. We are in possession of the
                  shipping papers of these splendid pigs. The freight and incidental expenses on
                  them, alone, amount to about six hundred dollars. They ought to be fine pigs.
                  Three hundred dollars a pair for the pigs from this splendid stock
                  would be low, taking their great value into consideration. We have
                  often heard of Prince Albert's stock of pigs, but until G. P. Burnham, Esq., of
                  Russet House, Melrose, first imported this superb stock into this country, no
                  American was ever honored with a shy at this extraordinary breed of swine. The
                  company, at great expense and trouble,
                  prevailed upon Mr. Burnham to part with a few of his second-rate samples; and they
                  have now no doubt that they will be able to 'beat him all to rags,' in a few
                  months, since they have been lucky enough to get them from him purely
                  bred (probably!).
               "P. S. Of these pigs, which gained the first prize and gold and silver medal at
                  London in December, 1863, and the first prize and gold and silver medal in
                  Birmingham, were from Tibby, by Wun-eyed Jack. Old Pulgubbin's pigs gained a prize
                  at Mutton-head in 1729, and one at London in 1873."
               Still, notwithstanding all this extra flourish of trumpets, the "Porte Monnaie I
                  owe 'em Company" is well-nigh defunct. It was started, unfortunately, about five
                  years and eight months "too late in the season."
               Yet, as I honor talent and enterprise, wherever they may be shown, I trust that
                  this association may be galvanized into successful operation—as,
                     perhaps, it will!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               A SATISFACTORY PEDIGREE.
               IN the course of my live-stock experience, and especially during the excitement
                  that prevailed amidst the routine of the hen-trade, I found myself constantly the
                  recipient of scores and hundreds of the most ridiculously unreasonable and
                  meaningless letters, from the fever-struck (and innocent) but uninitiated victims
                  of this epidemic.
               In England, amongst other nonsense bearing upon this subject, the more cunning
                  poultry-keepers resorted to the furnishing of pedigrees for the birds
                  they sold. This trick worked to admiration in Great Britain for a time, and the
                  highest-sounding names were given to certain favorite fowls, the progeny of which
                  ("with pedigree attached") commanded the most extravagant and ruinous prices, in
                  the English "fancy" market.
               For instance, I noticed in the London papers, in 1852, an account given of the
                  sale of "two splendid cinnamon-colored chickens, out of the famous cock 'Jerry,'
                  by the noted hen 'Beauty,' sired by 'Napoleon,' upon the well- known 'Queen Dowager,' grandsire 'Prince Albert,'
                  on 'Victoria First,'" &c. &c., which brought the handsome sum of one
                  hundred and sixty pounds (or about eight hundred dollars). And, soon afterwards,
                  the same dodge was adopted on this side of the Atlantic. The "Porte-Monnaie I owe
                  'em Company" have now an advertisement in several New York and
                  Western papers, concluding thus:
               
                  "To all who desire it, we will furnish authentic pedigrees of our stock of
                        all descriptions, which may be relied on for their
                     accuracy."
               
               This sort of thing was rather too much for my naturally republican turn of mind;
                  and, though I could endure almost anything in the humbug of this
                  bubble, I could n't swallow this. I received from New York State, one
                  day, the following spicy epistle:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MR. BURNHAM.
                           
                           "SIR: I have been a live-stock breeder for some years in this and the
                              old country, and I was desirous to obtain only
                              pure-blooded fowls when I ordered the 'Cochins' of you
                              last month. I asked you for their pedigree. You have sent
                              none. What does this mean? I paid you your price—seventy-five
                              dollars—for three chickens. What have you sent me? Am I dealing with a
                              gentleman? Or are you a mere shambles-huckster? What are these fowls
                              bred from? Perhaps I may find myself called upon to speak more
                              plainly, sir. I hope not. Who are you? I sent for a
                              pedigree, and I want it. I must have it, sir. You will
                              comprehend this, I presume. If you do not, I can enlighten you
                              further. In haste,
                           
                              "—— — ——."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I smiled at the earnestness of this letter, the more particularly when I reflected
                  that this gentleman always supplied to his patrons a thing he called a pedigree,
                  for all the animals he sold—so intricate, conglomerated and lengthy, that no one
                  would ever venture to dispute the authenticity and reliability of the document he
                  sent them.
               I re-read his sharp communication, and I found the sentence again, "Who are
                     you? I sent for a pedigree, and I must have it." And I sat down, at
                  once, and wrote him as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Melrose, Mass., 1853.
                              "MY DEAR SIR:
                           
                           "Your peppery favor came duly to hand. You say you 'want a pedigree,'
                              and that you 'must have it;' and you inquire who I am? I
                              cannot furnish any such history for my fowls, for I have
                              n't the slightest idea what they are, except that they are bred from
                              my superb imported 'Cochin-Chinas,' which have so long been pronounced
                              the 'admiration of the world.'
                           
                           "But, since you must have a pedigree, you say, and as you seem anxious
                              to know who I am, I enclose you the following, as an
                              accurate account of my own pedigree, which I furnished to
                              a legal gentleman in New York city, some years since,*
                               and which, I presume, will answer your purpose as well as any
                              other would; as I observe, by your polite favor now before me, that
                              you 'want A pedigree.' Please read this carefully, and then inform me
                              (as you promise to do) if you 'can enlighten me
                              further'!
                           
                              "Very profoundly yours,
                              "G. P. B."
                           
                           
                              
                              *This article was originally published in the New York
                                 Spirit of the Times, substantially, and was
                                 afterwards issued in an edition of my fugitive literary
                                 productions, by Getz & Buck, of Philadelphia, in a volume
                                 entitled "Stray Subjects."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It will be necessary, in order that my readers may the better appreciate the
                  pedigree that follows (and which I enclosed to my correspondent, as above stated),
                  to inform them that some fifteen years ago, or more, there was a person named
                     Burnham, who died in England, leaving no will behind him; but who
                  was possessed, at the time of his decease, of an immense fortune, said to amount
                  to several millions of pounds sterling in value. As soon as the intelligence
                  reached this country, the Burnhams were greatly elated with their prospects, and
                  meetings of the imaginative "heirs" to this estate were held, who, each and all,
                  believed that a windfall was now in certain prospect before them. The excitement
                  ended as all this sort of thing does. No one among the Burnhams could identify
                  himself, or substantiate the fact of his ever having had a grandfather; and the
                  bubble was soon exploded. Among the parties who were addressed on the subject of
                  this supposed "Burnham fortune," was my humble self; the ambitious lawyer who
                  undertook to unravel the mystery, and to recover the money for us, informing me by
                  mail that "it would be of material pecuniary advantage to me to establish my
                  pedigree." I wrote him as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR SIR:
                           
                           "Your favor, under date 4th instant, came duly to hand, and I improve
                              my earliest moment of leisure (after the unavoidable delays attendant
                              upon procuring the information you seek) to reply. You are desirous of
                              being made acquainted with my 'pedigree.'
                           "I have to inform you that I have taken some days to examine into this
                              matter, and, after a careful investigation of the 'records,' find that
                              I am a descendant, in the direct line, from a gentleman, very well
                              remembered in these parts, by the name of ADAM. The old man had two
                              sons. 'Cain' and 'Abel' they were called. The latter, by the other's
                              hands, went dead one day; but as no coroner had then been appointed in the county where
                              they resided, 'verdict was postponed.' A third son was born, whom they
                              called 'Seth.' Cain Adam had a son named Enoch, who had a
                              son (in the fourth generation) by the name of Malech. Malech had a son
                              whom he called NOAH, from whom I trace directly my own being.
                           "Noah had three sons, 'Shem,' 'Ham' and 'Japheth.' The
                              eldest and youngest—Shem and Japheth—were a couple of the 'b'hoys;'
                              and Ham was a very well-disposed young gentleman, who slept at home o'
                              nights. But his two brothers, unfortunately, were not so well
                              inclined. Ham was a sort of 'jethro'—the butt of his two
                              brothers, who had done him 'brown' so many times, that they called him
                              'burnt.' For many years he was known, therefore, as 'Burnt-Ham.'
                              Before his death he applied to the Legislature in his diggings for a
                              change of name. He dropped the t, a bill was passed
                              entitling him to the name of BURN-HAM, and hence the
                              surname of your humble servant. So much for the
                                 name.
                           
                           "In several of the newspapers of that period I find allusions made to
                                 a very severe rain-storm which occurred 'just about
                              this time;' and the public prints (of all parties) agree that 'this
                              storm was tremendous,' and that 'an immense amount of damage was done
                              to the shipping and commercial interest.' As this took place some six
                              thousand years back, however, you will not, I presume, expect me to
                              quote the particular details of this circumstance, except in so far as
                              refers directly to my own relatives. I may here add, however, that
                              subsequent accounts inform me that everything of any particular value
                              was totally destroyed. A private letter from Ham, dated at the time,
                              declares that 'there was n't a peg left to hang his hat on.'
                           "Old Noah found it was 'gittin' werry wet under foot' (to use a
                              familiar expression of his), and he wisely built a canal-boat (of very
                              generous dimensions) for the safety of himself and family. Finding
                              that the rain continued, he enlarged his boat, so that he could carry
                              a very considerable amount of luggage, in case of accident. This
                              foresight in the old gentleman proved most fortunate, and only
                              confirms the established opinion, that the family is 'smart;' for the
                              'storm continued unabated for forty days and forty nights' (so say the
                              accounts), until every species of animal and vegetable matter had been
                              'used up,' always excepting the old gentleman's canal-boat
                                 and cargo.
                           "Now, Noah was a great lover of animals. 'Of every kind, a male and
                              female,' did he take into his boat with him, and 'a nice time' they
                              must have had of it for six weeks! Notwithstanding the fact (which I
                              find recorded in one of the journals of the day), that 'a gentleman,
                              who was swimming about, and who requested the old man to let him in,
                              upon being refused, declared that he might go to grass with his old
                              canoe, for he did n't think it would be much of a shower, anyhow,'—I say,
                              notwithstanding this opinion of the gentleman, who is represented as
                              having been a 'very expert swimmer,' everything was destroyed.
                           "Ham was one of 'em—he was! He 'knew sufficient to get
                              out of the rain,' albeit he wasn't thought very witty. He
                              took passage with the rest, however, and thus did away with the
                              necessity of a life-preserver. From Ham I trace my
                              pedigree directly down through all the grades, to King Solomon,
                              without any difficulty, who, by the way, was reported to have been a
                              little loose in his habits, and was very fond of the ladies and
                              Manzanilla Sherry. He used to sing songs, too, of which 'the least
                              said the soonest mended.' But, on the whole, Sol was a very clever,
                              jolly-good fellow, and on several occasions gave evidence of
                              possessing his share of the cunning natural to our family. Some
                              thought him 'wise;' but, although I have no disposition to abuse any
                              of my ancestors, I think the Queen of Sheba (a very nice young woman
                              she was, too) rather 'come it' over the old fellow!
                           "By a continuous chain, I trace my relationship thence through a
                              rather tortuous line, from generation to generation, down to Mr.
                              Matthew,—not the comedian, but to Matthew, the Collector (of Galilee,
                              I think), who 'sat at the receipt of customs.' To this
                              connection I was, undoubtedly, indebted for an appointment in the
                              Boston Custom-house. Matthew lived in the good old 'high tariff'
                              times, when something in the shape of duties was coming in. But, as
                              nothing is said of his finale, I
                              rather think he absquatulated with the funds of the government. But I
                              will come to the information you desire, without further ado.
                           "You know the 'OLD 'UN,' undoubtedly. (If you don't, there is very
                              little doubt but you will know his namesake hereafter, if
                              you don't cease to squander your time in looking after the plunder of
                              the Burnham family!) Well, the 'Old 'Un' is in the 'direct line,' to
                              which I have now endeavored to turn your attention; and I have been
                              called, of late years, the 'YOUNG 'UN,' for reasons that will not
                              interest you. To my honored senior (whom I set down in the category as
                              my legitimate 'dad') I would refer you for further particulars. He is
                              tenacious of the character of his progeny, and loves me; I would
                              commend you to him, for it will warm the cockles of his old heart to
                              learn that the 'YOUNG 'UN' is in luck.
                           
                           "If you chance to live long enough to get as far down in my letter as
                                 this paragraph, allow me to add that, should you
                              happen to receive any very considerable amount as my
                              share of the 'property' for the Burnham family, please not overlook
                              the fact that I am 'one of 'em,' and that I have taken pains to tell
                              you 'whar I cum from.' Please forward my dividend by Adams & Co.'s
                              Express (if their crates should be big enough to convey it), and if it should prove too bulky,
                              turn it into American gold, and charter a steamer to come round for
                              the purpose; I shan't mind the expense.
                           "In conclusion, I can only intimate the high consideration I entertain
                              towards yourself for having prepaid the postage upon your
                              communication; a very unusual transaction with legal gentlemen. My
                              sensations, upon closing this hasty scrawl, are, I fancy, very nearly
                              akin to those of the Hibernian who 'liked to have found a
                              sovereign once,'—but you will allow me to assure you that it will
                              afford me the greatest pleasure to meet you hereafter, and I shall be
                              happy to give you any further information in my power touching
                                 that 'putty' in prospective.
                           
                              "I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
                              "GEO. P. BURNHAM, alias the 'YOUNG 'UN.'"
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I presume this pedigree was perfectly satisfactory to my correspondent; and I am
                  quite certain that it was of as much account as this kind of thing usually is. At
                  any rate, I heard nothing more from him, in any way; and I made up my mind,
                  therefore, that, after reading this, he concluded that he couldn't "enlighten me
                  further," as he had so pertly suggested in his communication, quoted in the
                  beginning of this chapter. He is a very nice man, I have no manner of doubt.
            
            
               CHAPTER XL.
               "DOING THE GENTEEL THING."
               "THERE is one thing you should always bear in mind," said a notorious shark to me,
                  one day, while we conversed upon the subject of breeding live-stock
                  successfully—"there is one thing you should always remember; and that is, under no
                  circumstances ever permit a fowl or a pig to pass out of your hands to a
                  purchaser, unless you know him to be of pure blood."
               This is a pretty theory, and, I have no doubt, such a course would work to
                  admiration, if faithfully carried out (as I always intended to do, by
                  the way); but in this country this was easier to talk about than to accomplish. I
                  have now a letter before me, received some years since, upon this point, and which
                  will give the reader some idea how far this thing extended in certain quarters,
                  and what came of it.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "SIR: I have been informed by my friends, and I have seen it stated in
                              the poultry-books generally, that you are a breeder of fowls who can be relied
                              on. I wish I could say as much of some other parties with whom I have
                              dealt, during the past year or two.
                           "I have been striving, for a long time, to get possession of some
                                 pure-bred domestic fowls, and a strain of thoroughbred
                              Suffolk swine. I am satisfied you have got them. Now, I
                              beg you will understand that I am fortunately pecuniarily able to
                                 pay for what I seek. I care nothing for
                                 prices;
                              *
                               but I do desire, and stipulate for, purity of blood. Can you
                              supply me? What are your strains? When did you import it, and how has
                              it been bred?
                           "If you can send me half a dozen Chinese fowls, all pure
                              bloods, of each of the different varieties, do so, and charge me
                              whatever you please,—only let them be fine, and such as will produce
                              their like.
                           "I have read much on this subject of poultry, and I want to
                                 begin right, you perceive. I have made up my mind that
                              there are not so many varieties of fowls extant as many
                              breeders describe. I am satisfied that these domestic birds hail
                              originally from China, and that all of them are of one
                              blood. What is your opinion?
                           "Write me your views, please, and let me know if you can furnish me
                              what I seek, upon honor; bearing in mind that I am ready to pay your
                              price, whatever it may be; but that I want only pure-blooded
                              stock.
                           
                              "Yours, respectfully,
                              "——— ———."
                           
                           
                              
                              *This was the kind of customer I met with occasionally, and whom
                                 I always took at his word. The gentleman who "did n't care about
                                 price" was always the man after my own heart.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I immediately forwarded to this customer (as I usually did to my newly-found
                  patrons) copies of the portraits of my "genuine Suffolk" pigs, and of
                  my "pure-bred" and "imported" Chinese fowls. These "pictures," samples of which
                  appear in this work upon pages 174 and 212, had the desired effect. I rarely
                  forwarded to these beginners one of these nicely-got-up circulars that didn't
                  "knock 'em" at first sight.
               These gentlemen stared at the engravings, exclaimed, "Can it be?"
                  thrust their hands to the very bottom of their long purses, and ordered the stock
                  by return of mail.
               In this last-mentioned case, I informed my correspondent that I agreed with him in
                  the ideas he had advanced precisely (I usually did agree with such gentlemen), and
                  I entertained no doubt that he was entirely correct in his views as to the origin
                  of domestic fowls, of which he evidently knew so much. (This helped me,
                  amazingly.) I pointed out to him the distinction that existed (without a
                  difference) between a "Shanghae" and a "Cochin-China," and finally concluded my
                  learned and unselfish appeal by hinting (barely hinting) to him that I
                  felt certain he was the best judge of the facts in the case, and I
                  would only suggest that, so far as my experience went, there were, in
                  reality, but ten varieties of pure-bred fowls known to
                  ornithologists (I was one of this latter class), and that these ten varieties were
                  the Cochins, the White, Grey, Dominique, Buff, Yellow, Red, Brown, Bronze and
                  Black Shanghaes—and these were the only kinds I ever
                  bred.
               As to their purity of blood, I could only say, that I imported the original stock
                  myself, and "enclosed" he had their portraits; to which I referred
                  with pride and confidence and pleasure, &c. &c. &c. Of their probable
                  merits I must leave it entirely to his own good judgment to decide. I had this
                  stock for sale, and it did not become me (mind this!) didn't
                     become me to praise it, of course (O no!). And I would say no
                  more, but simply refer him to the public prints for my character as a breeder of
                  blooded stock, etc. etc. etc.
               Did this take him down? Well, it did; vide the
                  following reply from him, two weeks subsequently.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR SIR:
                           
                           "I never entertained a doubt that you were all you had
                              been represented; and your reputation is, indeed, an enviable one, in
                              the midst of these times, when so much deceit and trickery is being
                              practised among this community. I am flattered with the tone of your
                              kind letter, just received, and I am greatly pleased that you thus
                              readily coincide with me in regard to my opinions touching the fowl
                              race.
                           "I had come to the conclusion that there were but eight
                              real varieties of genuine fowls; but I observe that, in your last
                              favor, you describe ten strains of pure-bloods, that you
                              know to be such. The portraits of your stock are beautiful. You allude
                              to the 'Bronze' and the 'Dominique' colored Shanghaes. These must be
                              very fine, I have no doubt; and I gladly embrace the opportunity to
                              enclose you a draft on Merchants' Bank, Boston, for six hundred
                              dollars, in payment for six of each of your splendid varieties of this
                              pure China stock, the like of which (on paper, at least) I have never
                              yet been so fortunate as to meet with.
                           "Please forward them, as per schedule, in care of Adams & Co.'s
                              Express; whose agents, I am assured, will feed and water them
                              regularly three times a day
                              *
                               on the route, and who are universally proverbial for their
                              attention to the birds thus directed and intrusted to their care. I
                              shall order the 'Suffolks' shortly. Yours, truly,
                           
                              "—— ——."
                           
                           
                              
                              *Certainly—of course. The express agents had nothing else to do
                                 but to "feed and water" fowls "three times a day"
                                 on the way!
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I sent this anxious purchaser sixty chickens, at ten dol- lars each (cheap enough, to be sure), in accordance
                  with his directions, and he was delighted with them. I do not now
                  entertain a shadow of doubt that every one of those ten "different
                  varieties" were bred from white hens and a black cock, of the ordinary "Shanghae"
                  tribe.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLI.
               THE FATE OF THE "MODEL" SHANGHAES.
               NAPOLEON, the great, found himself compelled to succumb to adverse fate, at the
                  end of a long and brilliantly triumphant career. "It was destiny," he said; and he
                  bowed to the fiat, which at last he was unable successfully to dodge.
               I was the fortunate owner of a pair of fine Shanghae fowls, that were universally
                  acknowledged to be "at the head of the crowd,"—so far as there was any beauty or
                  attractive qualities, whatever, in this species of animal,—and I thought they were
                  not bad-looking birds, really.
               I caused a likeness to be taken of them from life, accurately, and it was placed,
                  some years since, at the head of the circulars which I always enclosed back to my
                  correspondents, in reply to their favors and inquiries regarding my views as to
                  what was the best kind of domestic bird for breeding.
               The cock was very handsomely formed, and when in full feather was exceedingly
                  showy, and graceful, and noble in his carriage. His hen companions were fine, too;
                  but there was one in particular, that, in company with this bird, I showed at
                  several fairs, where they invariably carried away the first premium, without any
                  question or cavil as to comparative beauty and merit. I named them "Napoleon" and
                  the "Empress."
               Their joint weight, when in the best condition, was about twenty-two pounds; and
                  as the "fancy" then raged, they were really unexceptionable. I "donno" how many
                  chickens I have sold by means of the pictures of these birds, but I
                     do know that, unfortunately, this particular hen never laid an egg
                  while I owned her, which was some two years. Still, she was very handsome, as was
                  also her husband; and I certainly raised a great many fine chickens while they
                  were in my yards. I called them my very best,—and they were, indeed, to look
                     at,—a model pair of Shanghaes, as will be seen by a glance at
                  their portraits on the next page.
               But they were singled out for a curious fate. At two or three of our early fairs
                  they had taken the first prizes; and at one of the exhibitions, finally, there
                  chanced to come along a gentleman who fancied them exceedingly, and who was bound
                  to possess himself of the best that could be had. He had a long purse (though, at
                  the time he bought, prices were not up to the mark they reached
                  subsequently, by a long margin); and when he offered forty dollars for this
                     THE "MODEL" SHANGHAES.—(See page 280.)
                  
                   "model" pair, it was thought, by most
                  of the outsiders, to be a fabulous transaction altogether, made up between us to
                  aid in gulling "the people." However, he paid his money for them, sent them off,
                  and the following account of their subsequent fate is thus touchingly furnished by
                  my friend "Acorn," who chanced to be "in at the death":
               "The gentleman who became the fortunate purchaser of these fine fowls had come to
                  the city in the morning for the purpose of posting himself up generally, and to
                  procure a pair of these then very desirable birds, though he did not imagine that
                  he would be called upon to come down so 'werry han'some' for a single pair. He saw
                  these, however, and visions of brilliant promise loomed up before him, if he could
                  contrive to obtain them, however high a figure this 'magnificent' twain might be
                  held at. As soon as he secured them, he felt that his fortune was made.
               "He calculated to remain in town until evening, and, sitting down, he hastily
                  wrote a note to the keeper of a fashionable hotel in T—— street, informing him
                  that he would dine with him, and that the bearer would deliver him a pair of nice
                  chickens, which he desired him to take charge of. He also directed the boy (to
                  whom he gave this note and the coop) to say that he would take dinner with his
                  friend at four P. M.; and, sending up the fowls, he turned to other matters, for
                  the day.
               "Arriving at the hotel, the youngster found the landlord, and said,
               "'Here's a pair of rousing big chickens Mr. M——s has sent up; and he says he'll be
                  here to dine with you at four o'clock.'
               "The landlord supposed that his friend knew a hawk from a handsaw, as well as a
                  canvass-back from a broiled owl; and believed that he had 'sent up' something a
                  little extra for the proposed dinner. He therefore ordered the two birds to be
                  placed in the hands of the cook, and gave directions also to have these 'model
                  Shanghaes' killed and dressed at once, for the proposed dinner, to come off at
                  four o'clock P. M.!
               "This order was promptly obeyed; and at the hour appointed the chicken-fancier
                  made his appearance, in company with a few of the 'boys,' and the dinner was
                  served up with due accompaniments. After indulging in sundry wine bitters, as a
                  sharpener to their appetites, the snug party sat down to table, and the liberal
                  owner of the forty-dollar Shanghaes was politely invited to carve. While in the
                  act of dissecting those enormous 'members of the late hen convention,' the amateur
                  remarked,
               "''Pon my word, Major, you've a noble pair of chickens here, to be sure.'
               "'Yes, yes,' responded the Major. 'I think they are an indifferently
                  good-sized pair of birds. They were sent up to me, to-day, by a mutual friend of ours. I think we shall find them
                  choice.'
               "'A present, eh?' said the owner, unwittingly. 'A very clever fellow our friend
                  must be, Major. Capital,—really!' And as he finally commenced to enjoy the feast,
                  he added, 'I declare they are very fine, and of the most delicious flavor I ever
                  tasted. Juicy, too,—juicy as a canvass-back.'
               "Thus continued the victim, praising the rich excellence of the birds, until at
                  last he had bagged a bottle or more of sparkling Schreider. While chatting over
                  their Sherry, at last, and enjoying the rich aroma of their regalias, the now
                  unlucky owner of the model Shanghaes suddenly said,
               "'By the way, Major, speaking of fowls, what do you think of my hen-purchase, this
                  morning? Are n't they good 'uns?'
               "'Well, Bill,' rejoined his friend, 'I think they were delicious. And I won't mind
                  if you dine with me every day in the week, provided you can send me up such
                  chickens as those!'
               "'Such chickens!' exclaimed Bill, astounded, as the thought for the
                  first time flashed upon him that he might possibly now have been dining upon his
                  'model Shanghaes.' 'Why, Major, what the deuce do you mean?'
               "'Mean?' replied the Major; 'nothing,—only to say—without any intention of
                  disturbing your nerves,— that we have just finished a most capital dinner upon
                  those nice Shanghaes that you sent up to me, this morning.'
               "'What!' yelled Bill, jumping wildly up from the table; 'what do you
                  say, Major?'
               "'Those Shanghaes—'
               "Bill groaned, rammed his hands clean up to the elbows into his breeches-pockets,
                  and, after striding fiercely across the room some half a dozen times, without
                  uttering another word, but with his eyes all this time 'in a fine frenzy rolling,'
                  he stopped short, and, turning to the Major, he exclaimed, with no little
                  gesticulation,
               "'Good God, Major, you don't mean to say you're serious, now?'
               "'Nothing else, Bill. What's the matter?'
               "'Why, I paid forty dollars for that pair of chickens, this morning, at the
                     hen-show!'
               "'You did!'
               "'Yes. Didn't that stupid boy give you my note, when he left the chickens?'
               "'Not a note; not even a due-bill,' said the Major, provokingly.
               "'I mean my letter,' continued Bill.
               "'No,' said the Major, 'he gave me no letter; he simply delivered the fowls, and
                  informed me that you would dine with me at four p. M I thought, of course, you
                  would like them thus, and so I had 'em roasted.'
               
               "Bill did n't stop for further explanations, but rushed for his horse and wagon,
                  and wasn't seen in the city but once afterwards, for a long time. He was then
                  closely muffled up, and had both his ears stopped up with cotton-batting, lest he
                  might possibly hear some one say Shanghae!
               
               "A few weeks afterwards, while passing near his residence, I halted, and dropped
                  in upon him for an hour; and, after a while, I ventured to touch upon the merits
                  and beauties of the different breeds of poultry;—but I discovered, at once, that
                  there was a wildness about Bill's eyes, and therefore ceased to allude to this
                  usually interesting 'rural' subject, as Bill exclaimed, imploringly,
               "'Don't hit me, old boy, now I'm down! That chicken dinner has never yet
                     digested!'"
               Thus "passed away" one of the handsomest pairs of domestic fowls ever seen in this
                  part of the country, and which were well known, by all the fanciers around me, as
                  tip-top specimens of the then lauded race of Shanghaes.
               This result proved rather an expensive dinner for Mr. M——s; but, while it served
                  for an excellent lesson to him (as well as to many of his friends who chanced to
                  hear of what the Major called "this capital joke"), he had the satisfaction,
                  subsequently, of ascertaining that he got off at a remarkably low figure.
                     His hen fever was very quickly, and fortunately, cured. But for
                  this sudden and happy turn in his case, the disease might have cost
                  him far more dearly.
               The fowls-he thus lost were what were then deemed "tall specimens;" but they did
                  not, in this respect, equal those of a neighbor, who declared that a young
                  Shanghae cock of his grew so high on the leg, that he got to be afraid of him;
                  and, instead of eating him, one day while the rooster was in a meditative mood, he
                  contrived to place a twenty-feet ladder beside him, and, mounting it, managed to
                  blow out the monster's brains, greatly to the owner's relief.
               
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLII.
               AN EMPHATIC CLINCHER.
               ONE of the last specimen letters that I will offer I received late in
                  the year of our Lord 1854, which afforded me as much amusement (considering the
                  circumstances of the case) as any one I ever yet received, of the thousands that
                  found their way to "Geo. P. Burnham, Esq., Boston, Mass." Here it is, word for
                  word:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "GEORG BURNAM:
                           
                           More'n a yeer aggo i cent yu twenty six dollers in a leter for 3
                              coshin chiner Chickns, an yu sed tha wus perfeck pure bludds an yu
                              lade yerseff lyble tu a Sute of prosekushn fer letin such dam stuf go
                              intu yure yard or out of it, eether.
                           "i bred them orl by themselfs an never had no uther cockrill on my
                              plase. an i no yu cheeted me like the devl, an yu no it
                              2. the fust lot of chickns i gut was awl wite as
                              snobawls. but i didnt sa nothin, cause wy? Wat did I Want tu let fokes
                              no ide bin fuled an suckt in by a Corntemtible yanky, fer! i sed
                              nothin an kep shaidy, an stuk to it that i gut em to
                                 breed wite fouls out on—caus i Ment peeple shudent
                              larf at me, no how!
                           "Wel, the nex lot of chickns i gut wus black as thunder!
                                 black, Geo Burnam—bred out of yur Patent yaller
                              impoted preemum stock, that yu an the lyin Noospappers ced wus pure
                              bludds. i chocked Every wun on em quicker'n scatt—wen i
                              found um, an ef Yude a bin thare then i guess you Wuddent razed not
                              more'n ten thowsen more fouls to cheet Peeple with after ide a gut a
                              holt on yure desaitful gullet.
                           "never yu mind now, yuve gut my monny an yu can maik the most of it.
                              aint yu a Pooty kine of mann? dont yu think yu ort tu hav yure Naim
                              put in the nuspapper an let em say more'n fifty times a Munth that yu
                              breed onny pure Impoted stock? dont yu feel nice wen Yu heer about the
                              luck that peeple has with the stuf you impose on em in this shaimfull
                              maner? Yu muss be a Nise kine of a sort of mann, i dont
                              think.
                           "i tell yu wot i think on yu. i think if yu Shud taik to sum onnest
                              imploiment, sech as drivin a express Waggin or sorring wood, yude be
                              Considurd a gentle mann Compaired with wat yu now be. everyboddy nose
                              how yu ar cheetin and Gougin and bleadin the publick, an yur naim
                              stinks wuss'n a ole Hen-cupe enny how. i spose tho ef yu
                                 shud taik to enny kine of onness sort of way tu git a
                              livin it ud kill yu dam
                              quik cos yu aint uste tu it, an that wud serv yu rite, yu Cheetin lyin
                              onprinsipled nave. ide orter taikn bennits an Minur's advise, an then
                              i Shudent bin suckt by yu. tha air Gentle mann to yu, an
                              tha aint no better then tha shud be Neyther—no how!
                           "i dont mine the Eckspence, it aint no cornsidable matter of konsekens
                              Tu me, i 'shure yu. i can stan it, yu need n't be Afeered
                              of that. i can aford tu be suckt wunce. But ide like yu tu tell me how
                              Blak chickns an wite chickns an sum of em orl Cullers tu,
                              can cum out of pure bludded Aigs, or pure bludded fouls? tha
                                 carnt, an yu kno it. an yu kno'de it afore, an yure
                              Welcom tu orl yule evver maik More out of me, bait yure
                              life on that, georg Burnam!
                           "go ahed. suc em as long as Yu can. tha wunt fine yu out fer a wile,
                              an yu can maik sum cornsidable mor Monny out of the flatts, yit. yu
                              thort yude suckt me I spoze. well i own up. yu
                                 did. yu gut twenty six dollers of my monny an i spose
                              yu chukled about it, same's yu did Wen yu stuk them roten aigs onto
                              bill turner. Yude beter cum here, this wa, sum fine da an See the
                              stock here thats bred out of yure preemum fouls. praps Yude git hoam
                              agin without a saw hed. i think yu wood. haddn't yu Better try it
                                 on—hay?
                           
                           "dont yu wish ide pade the postige on this leter? Yule git a wus wun
                              nex time. ile rite yu agin, wunct a weak, cee ef i dont. ile Meat yu
                              sum day at sum of the fares an then cee if i dont Rake yu
                              down with a corse comb. i haint harf dun with yu yit, by a dam site.
                              so wate.
                           
                              "In haist,
                              "B—— F—— L——.
                           
                        
                        
                           "Poss Skrip.—P. S. i seen in boston Times
                              yisterday that yu 'Lade six aigs on The editurs table, 8 inchis long
                              an 4 inchis Round.' This was put in that paper i Spose sose yu cud
                              cell Aigs. yu ma pool wull over thair ies But yu dont fule
                                 Me. i doant bleeve yu ever Lade a aig in yur life—yu
                              Hombugg. go tu the devl gorge Burnam!"
                        
                     
                  
               
               A German friend of mine once temporarily left the profession to which he had been
                  educated thoroughly, and, with a few hundred dollars in hand, purchased a small
                  place; a dozen miles out from the city, which was called by the seller of it "a
                  farm."
               Mynheer went to work lustily at his new vocation, slaving and sweating and puffing
                  away over his lately acquired grounds, every moment of time that he could borrow
                  or steal from his legitimate duties, and expending upon his "farm" every dollar he
                  could rake and scrape together.
               In the fall of his first year as a "practical agriculturist," I met him casually,
                  and I said,
               
               "A——, how does the farming succeed with you? How have you made it?"
               "By gar," he replied, "I'av try vera hard all de time, I'av plant potato an quash
                  an corn an all dat, I'av hire all my neighbors to 'elp, I buy all de manoor in
                  town, I av spent all my monish—an wot you tink, now, Burnham—wot you tink I
                  get—eh? Well, I git one dam big watermel'n, dass all;—but he never git ripe,
                     by gar!"
               When I had read the letter which I have just quoted above, I thought of my friend
                  A——, and I said that my correspondent (like a good many before him), as did
                  Mynheer A——, had undertaken a business which was entirely beyond his
                  comprehension.
               His letter was complimentary, (!) to say the least of it. But the young man was
                  easily excited, I think. He did pay me some twenty-six dollars for four chickens,
                  and from some cause (unknown to this individual) he got only white or black
                  progeny from the yellow fowls I sent him! Was that any business of
                     mine? He should have thanked, rather than have abused me,
                  surely,—for didn't he thus obtain a variety of "pure" stock, from one
                  and the same source?
               Such fortune as this was by no means uncommon. The yellow stock was crossed in
                  China, oftentimes, long before we ever saw it here; and there was only one means
                  of redress that I could ever recommend to these unlucky wights, conscientiously,
                  and that was to buy more, and try it again.
               
                  Sometimes "like would breed its like" in poultry; not often, however,
                  within my humble experience! The amateurs were continually trying
                  experiments, and grumbling, and constantly dodging from one "fancy" kind of fowl
                  to another, in search of the right thing; and I endeavored to aid
                  them in their pursuit; though they did not always attain their object, even when
                  they purchased of me.
               
               
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIII.
               "STAND FROM UNDER!"
               I HAVE asserted, in another place, that, in all probability, in no
                  bubble, short of the famous "South Sea Expedition," has there ever been so great
                  an amount of money squandered, from first to last, as in the chicken-trade; and,
                  surely, into the meshes of no humbug known to us of the present day have there
                  been so many persons inveigled, as could now be counted among the victims of this
                  inexplicable mania.
               A copy of the Liverpool Express in January, 1854, now lies before
                  me, from which I notice that the great metropolitan show in London, just then
                  closed, surpassed all its predecessors; and that the excitement in England, at
                  that time, was at its height. The editor asserts that "it was not an easy thing to
                  exhaust the merits of the three thousand specimens of the feathered tribe there
                  shown. No one," continues the writer, "who is at all conversant with natural
                  history, can fail to find abundance of material for an hour's instruction and
                  amusement. The general charac- ter of the exhibition has been already indicated;
                  but this is one of those cases in which no description, however
                  elaborate, can supply the place of personal inspection."
               The British correspondent of the Boston Post, but a short time
                  previously, writes that "the fowl fever, which has raged with so much violence in
                     New England during the last three years, has extended to this
                  country. There was a great crowing among the cocks at the late Smithfield
                  cattle-show, and there seems to have been a still louder one at the Birmingham
                  fair.
               "The mania for the purchase of fine fowls," continues this writer, "was as furious
                  there as if each of them had been the hen in the fable that found the jewel in the
                  dunghill. Some pairs brought as high as forty pounds (two hundred dollars). One
                  very fine pair of Cochin-Chinas sold for fifty pounds (two hundred and fifty
                  dollars). In the catalogue some were marked at one hundred pounds, the
                     valuation prices of owners who did not wish to sell. With you, in
                  America, the rage for fowl-raising is simply one of fancy and profit,*
                   but here it is the result—and a very beneficial one, too—of free trade.
                  The price of eggs and poultry, owing to the great demand, does not fall; the price
                  of grain, owing to free importation, does fall; and hence the great profit which
                  is realized from keeping fowls.
                     
                     *
                        We have found it a very comfortable "rage," thank you!
                   The
                  Dorkings are great favorites, less difficult to raise than with you; and, though
                  not abundant layers, still command, from the greater whiteness and superior
                  delicacy of their flesh, a high price in the market. But the new Cochin-China
                  varieties are in the greatest demand; the display of them at Birmingham exceeded
                  all others, and they are now much sought after here."
               Such accounts as these continually occupied the papers; and the fever had been
                  kept furiously alive, by this means, until far into the year 1854. The most
                  glowing accounts of the poultry-shows, at home and abroad, were kept up, too; but,
                  in the mean time, Shanghae chickens multiplied rapidly, and grew up, and filled
                  the barns and yards of "the people,"—and at the same time they did not forget how
                  to eat corn, when they could get it.
               And, in spite of the best endeavors of interested parties to galvanize the hum
                  into a continued existence, it was now evident to those who watched its progress,
                  as I had done, that the death-rattle was clearly in its throat.
               At this juncture I was reminded of the details of the mulberry-tree bubble, the
                  tulip fever, and the Merino sheep speculation; and I had taken care not to become
                  involved in the final ruin of the hen-trade (as I knew many had been, and more
                  were destined to be), in the eventual winding-up of this affair, which was now
                  close at hand.
               A brief account of the famous sheep mania (so like the hen fever in its workings)
                  will not be uninteresting at this point; and its record here, perhaps, will have
                  the effect of opening the eyes of some chance reader, haply, who is, even now,
                  half inclined to try his hand in the chicken-trade.
               This sheep bubble originated in the year 1815 or 1816, immediately after the
                  treaty of Ghent, and at a period when thousands of the American people were
                  actually "wool-mad" in reference to the huge profits that were then apparent,
                  prospectively, in manufacturing enterprises.
               In the summer of the last-named year (as nearly as can be fixed upon), a gentleman
                  in Boston first imported some half-dozen sheep from one of the southern provinces
                  of Spain, whose fleeces were of the finest texture, as it was said; and such,
                  undoubtedly, was the fact, though the sheep were so thoroughly and completely
                  imbedded in tar, and every other offensive article, upon their arrival in America,
                  that it would have been very difficult to have proved this statement. But the very
                  offensive appearance of the sheep seemed to imbue them with a mysterious value,
                  that rendered them doubly attractive.
               It was contended that the introduction of these sheep into the United States would
                  enable our manufactories, then in their infancy, to produce broadcloths, and other
                  woollen fabrics, of a texture that would compete with England and Europe. Even Mr.
                  Clay was consulted in reference to the sheep; and he at once decided that they
                  were exactly the animals that were
                  wanted; and some of them subsequently found their way to Ashland.
               The first Merino sheep sold, if I recollect right, for fifty dollars the head.
                  They cost just one dollar each in Andalusia! The speculation was too
                  profitable to stop here; and, before a long period had elapsed, a small fleet
                  sailed on a sheep speculation to the Mediterranean. By the end of the year 1816
                  there probably were one thousand Merino sheep in the Union, and they had advanced
                  in price to twelve hundred dollars the head.
               Before the winter of that year had passed away, they sold for fifteen hundred
                  dollars the head; and a lusty and good-looking buck would command two thousand
                  dollars at sight. Of course, the natural Yankee spirit of enterprise, and the love
                  which New Englanders bore to the "almighty dollar," were equal to such an
                  emergency as this, and hundreds of Merino sheep soon accumulated in the Eastern
                  States.
               But, in the course of the year 1817, the speculation, in consequence of the
                  surplus importation, began to decline; yet it steadily and rapidly advanced
                  throughout the Western country, while Kentucky, in consequence of the influence of
                  Mr. Clay's opinions, was especially benefited.
               In the fall of 1817, what was then deemed a very fine Merino buck and ewe were
                  sold to a gentleman in the Western country for the sum of eight
                     thousand dollars; and even that was deemed a very
                     small price for the animals! They were purchased by a Mr.
                  Samuel Long, a house builder and contractor, who fancied he had by the transaction
                  secured an immense fortune.
               Now, Mr. Long had acquired the sheep fever precisely as thousands of others (in
                  later days) have taken the hen fever. And, in this case, the victim was really
                     rabid with the Merino mania. In proof of this, the following
                  authentic anecdote will be amply sufficient and convincing.
               There resided, at this time, in Lexington, Ky., and but a short distance from Mr.
                  Clay's villa of Ashland, a wealthy gentleman, named Samuel Trotter,
                  who was, in fact, the money-king of Kentucky, and who, to a very great extent, at
                  that time, controlled the branch of the Bank of the United States. He had two
                  sheep,—a buck and an ewe,—and Mr. Long was very anxious to possess them.
               Mr. Long repeatedly bantered and importuned Mr. Trotter to obtain this pair of
                  sheep from him, but without success; but, one day, the latter said to the former,
                  "If you will build me such a house, on a certain lot of land, as I shall describe,
                  you shall have the Merinos."
               "Draw your plans for the buildings," replied Long, instantly, "and let me see
                  them; I will then decide."
               The plans were soon after submitted to him, and Long eagerly accepted the
                  proposal, and forthwith engaged in the enterprise. He built for Trotter a
                  four-story brick house, about fifty feet by seventy on the
                  middle of an acre of land; he finished
                  it in the most approved modern style, and enclosed it with a costly fence; and,
                  finally, handed it over to Trotter, for the two Merino sheep. The
                  establishment must have cost, at the very least, fifteen thousand dollars.
               But, alas! A long while before this beautiful and costly estate was fully
                  completed, the price of Merinos declined gradually; and six months had not passed
                  away before they would not command twenty dollars each, even in Kentucky.
               Mr. Long was subsequently a wiser but a poorer man. He held on to
                  this pair till their price reached the par value only of any other sheep; and then
                  he absolutely killed this buck and ewe, made a princely barbecue, called all his
                  friends to the feast, and whilst the "goblet went its giddy rounds," like the
                  ruined Venetian, he thanked God that, at that moment, he was not worth a
                  ducat!
               This is absolute, sober fact. Mr. Long was completely and
                  irretrievably ruined in his pecuniary affairs; and very soon after this "sumptuous
                  dinner," he took sick, and actually died of a broken heart.
               Along in the summer and fall of 1854, having watched the course that matters were
                  taking in the chicken-trade, I became cautious; for I thought I heard in the
                  far-off distance something indefinite, and almost undistinguishable, yet pointed
                  and emphatic in its general tone. I listened; and, as nearly as I could make the
                  warning out, it sounded like "TAKE CARE!"
               And so I waited for the dénouement that was yet
                  to come. In the mean time, I had a friend who for five long years had been
                  religiously seeking for that incomprehensible and never-yet-come-at-able ignis fatuus, a genuine "Cochin-China" fowl of
                  undoubted purity!
               I had not heard of or from him for some weeks; until, one morning, about this
                  time, a near relative of his sent to my house all that remained of this
                  indefatigable searcher after truth; an accurate drawing of which I instantly
                  caused to be made—and here it is!
               
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIV.
               BURSTING OF THE BUBBLE.
               MY friend John Giles, of Woodstock, Conn., has somewhere said, of late, "I often
                  hear that the 'fowl' fever is dying out. If by this is meant the unhealthy
                  excitement which we have had for a few years past, for one, I say the sooner that
                  it dies out the better. But as to the enthusiasm of true lovers of
                  the feathered tribe dying out, it never will, as long as man exists. It is part of
                  God's creation. The thinking man loves and admires his Maker's work; always did;
                  always will. And I have not the least doubt that any enterprising young man, with
                  a suitable place and fancier's eye, would find it to his advantage to embark in
                  the enterprise of fowl-raising for market."
               Now, I don't know but John is honest in this assertion,—that is, I can imagine
                  that he believes in this theory! But how he can ever have arrived at such a
                  conclusion (with the results of his own experience before him), is more than I
                     can comprehend.
               Laying aside all badinage, for the moment, I think it may be presumed that I have
                  had some share of experience in this business, practically, and I
                  think I can speak advisedly on this subject. As far back as during the years 1839,
                  '40 and '41, I erected, in Roxbury, a poultry establishment on a large scale, upon
                  a good location, where I had the advantages of ample space, twenty separate
                  hen-houses, running water and a fine pond on the premises, glasshouses (cold, and
                  artificially heated, for winter use), and every appurtenance, needful or
                  ornamental, was at my command.
               I purchased and bred all kinds of domestic fowls there, and they were attended
                  with care from year's end to year's end. But there was no profit
                  whatever resulting from the undertaking,—and why?
               The very week that a mass of poultry—say three to five hundred
                  fowls—is put together upon one spot, they begin to suffer, and fail,
                  and retrograde, and die. No amount of care, cleanliness or watching, can evade
                  this result. In a body (over a dozen to twenty together), they cannot
                  thrive; nor can the owner coax or force them to lay eggs, by any known
                     process.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Since this was written, I find in the Country Gentleman a
                     communication from L. F. Allen, Esq., on this very subject, in which he says
                     that "A correspondent desires to know how to build a chicken-house for
                     'about one thousand fowls.' If my poor opinion is worth anything, he
                        will not build it at all. Fowls, in any large number, will not
                     thrive. Although I have seen it tried, I never knew a large collection of
                     several hundred fowls succeed in a confined place. I have known
                     sundry of these enterprises tried; but I never knew one
                     permanently successful. They were all, in turn, abandoned."
                     The thing is entirely impracticable.
               
               
               To succeed with the breeding of poultry, the stock must be colonized
                  (if a large number of fowls be kept), or else only a few must find shelter in any
                  one place, about the farm or country residence. And my experience has taught me
                  that five hens together will yield more eggs than fifty-five together will in the
                  same number of months.
               I honestly assert, to-day, that of all the humbug that exists, or which has been
                  made to exist, on this subject, no part of it is more glaringly deceptive, in my
                  estimation, than that which contends for the profit that is to be
                  gained by breeding poultry—as a business by itself—for market
                     consumption. The idea is preposterous and ridiculous, and no man can
                  accomplish it,—I care not what his facilities may be,—to any great
                  extent, upon a single estate. The thing is impossible; and I state
                  this, candidly, after many years of practical experience among poultry, on a
                  liberal scale, and in the possession of rare advantages for repeated
                  experiment.
               I do not say that certain persons who have kept a few fowls (from
                  twenty-five to a hundred, perhaps); and who have looked after them carefully, may
                  not have realized a profit upon them, in connection with the farm. But, to make it
                  a business by itself, I repeat it, a mass of domestic
                  and aquatic fowls cannot be kept together to any advantage whatever, their produce
                  to be disposed of at ordinary market value.
               The fever for the "fancy" stock broke out at a time when money was plenty, and
                  when there was no other speculation rife in which every one, almost, could easily
                  participate. The prices for fowls increased with astonishing rapidity. The whole
                  community rushed into the breeding of poultry, without the slightest
                  consideration, and the mania was by no means confined to any particular class of
                  individuals—though there was not a little shyness among certain circles who were
                  attacked at first; but this feeling soon gave way, and our first men, at home and
                  abroad, were soon deeply and riotously engaged in the subject of henology.
               Meantime, in England they were doing up the matter somewhat more earnestly than
                  with us on this side of the water. To show how even the nobility never "put their
                  hand to the plough and look back" when anything in this line is to come off, and
                  the better to prove how fully the poultry interests were looked after in England,
                  I would point to the names of those who, from 1849 to 1855, patronized the London
                  and Birmingham associations for the improvement of domestic poultry.
               The Great Annual Show at Bingley Hall, was got up under the sanction of His Royal
                  Highness Prince Albert, the Duchess of
                  Sutherland, Lady Charlotte Gough, the Countess of Bradford, Rt. Hon. Countess of
                  Littlefield, Lady Chetwynd, Hon. Viscountess Hill, Lady Littleton, Hon. Mrs.
                  Percy, Lady Scott, and a host of other noble and royal lords and ladies, whose
                  names are well known among the lines of English aristocracy.
               But, as time advanced, the star of Shanghae-ism began to wane. The nobility tired
                  of the excitement, and the people of England and of the United States began to
                  ascertain that there was absolutely nothing in this "hum," save what the
                  "importers and breeders" had made, through the influence of the newspapers; and
                  while a few of the last men were examining the thickness of the
                  shell, cautiously and warily, the long-inflated bubble burst! and, as the
                  fragments descended upon the devoted heads of the unlucky star-gazers, a cry was
                  faintly heard, from beneath the ruins—"Stand from under!"
               I had been watching for this climax for several months; and when the explosion
                  occurred, as nearly as I can "cal-'late," I was n't
                     thar!
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XLV.
               THE DEAD AND WOUNDED.
               I HAVE never yet been able to ascertain, authentically, all the exact particulars
                  of the final catastrophe; but, basing an opinion upon the numerous "dispatches" I
                  received from November, 1854, to February, 1855, the number of dead and wounded
                  must have been considerable, if not more. I received scores of letters, during
                  this last period mentioned, of which the annexed is a fair sample:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "G. P. BURNHAM, ESQ.
                           
                           "DEAR SIR: I'm afraid the jig is up! There's a big hole in the bottom
                              somewhere, or I am mistaken. I think the dance is
                              concluded; and if it is n't time to 'blow out the lights' and shut
                              down the gate, just let us know,—will you? Where's Bennett, and Harry
                              Williams, and Dr. Eben, and Childs, and Ad. White, and Brackett, and
                              Johnny Giles, and Uncle Alden, and Buckminster, and Chickering, and
                              Coffin, and Fussell, and Chenery, and Gilman, and Hatch, and Jaques,
                              and Barnum, and Southwick, and Packard, and Balch, and Morton, and Plarsted, and Geo. White,
                                 et id omne genus? Where are they
                              all? S-a-y!
                           
                           "What has become of Platt, and Miner, and Newell, and Hudson, and
                              Heffron, and Taggard, and Hill, and Swett, and M'Clintock, and Dr.
                              Kerr, and Devereux, and Thacher, and Haines, and Hildreth, and Brown,
                              and Smith, and Green, and their allies? Are they dead, or
                              only 'kilt'? Let me know, if you can, I beseech you!
                           "'O, where, tell me where,' is my bonnie friend John Moore, and mine
                              ancient frère Morse, and my loved
                              chum Howard, and the wily Butters? And where's Pedder—the immaculate
                              Pedder? And Charley Belcher, too, and bragging Cornish, and Billy
                              Everett, and our good neighbors Parkinson, and George, and Sol.
                              Jewett, and President Kimball, and know-nothing King, and the reverend
                              Marsh, and Pendletonian Pendleton of Pendleton Hill, and their
                              satellites? Have all departed, and left no
                                 wreck behind? I reckon not!
                           "Seriously, friend B——, what does all this mean? Has the fever passed
                              by? Can't we offer another single prescription? Has the
                                 last man been heard from? Has there been found 'a balm
                              in Gilead' to heal the wounds of the afflicted sufferers? Is the thing
                              finished? Are they all cured? Did you say all? Dunder and
                              blixen! Is anybody hurt? What are we to do? 'Speak, or
                              die!'
                           "Where are the 'Committee,' and the 'Judges,' and the 'Trustees,' and
                              the 'Managers'? Where is the 'Society' whose name, 'like linked
                              sweetness long drawn out,' I have n't time to write? Where is
                                 that balance in the Treasurer's
                              hands,'—and where is that functionary himself? Did he ever exist at
                              all? What has become of the premiums that were awarded at
                              the last show in Boston? And when, in the language of the enthusiastic
                              Mr. Snooks (at the Statehouse in 1850), will that Association begin
                              'to be forever perpetuated,'—eh?
                           "I have got on hand three hundred of the Shanghae devils! What can I
                              do with them? There is a neighbor of mine (a police-officer), who has
                              got stuck with a lot of 'Cochin' chickens, which he swears he won't
                              support this winter; and he has at last advertised them as
                                 stolen property, in the faint hope, I suppose, that
                              some 'green 'un' will come forward and claim them. You can't get rid
                              of these birds! It is useless to try to sell them; you can't
                                 give them away; nobody will take them. You can't starve
                              them, for they are fierce and dangerous when aggravated, and will kick
                              down the strongest store-closet door; and you can't kill them, for
                              they are tough as rhinoceroses, and tenacious of life as cats. Ah!
                              Burnham, I have never forgiven the man who made me a present of my
                              first lot! Do you want what I've got left? Will you take them? How
                              much shall I pay you to receive them? Help me out, if you can.
                           
                           "I am not aware that I ever committed any offence, that this judgment
                              should be thus visited upon my poor head! I never sold
                              fowls for what they were not; I never cheated anybody,
                              that I know of; I do not remember ever having done any unjust act that
                              should bring down upon me this terrible vengeance. Yet I am now the
                              owner of nearly three hundred of these infernal, cursed, miserable
                              ghosts in 'feathered mail,' which I cannot get rid of! Tell me what I
                              shall do, and answer promptly.
                           
                              "Yours, in distress,
                              "—— — ——."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I have smiled over this document, so full of feeling and earnestness, so lively
                  and touching in its recollections of the days when we went
                  chicken-ing, long time ago! But I have never been able to reply fully
                  to my ardent friend's numerous inquiries. I don't want those "three hundred
                  Shanghae devils," though. I have now on hand nine of them (only,
                  thank Heaven!) myself; and that is quite enough for one farm, at the present
                  current price of grain.
               What has become of all the friends about whom my correspondent so carefully
                  inquires, I don't know. Not five of them are now in the
                  hen-trade, however; and there are not ten of them who got out of the
                  business with a whole skin, from the commencement.
               The engine has collapsed its boiler. There was alto- gether too much steam crowded
                  on, and the managers were not all "up to snuff." The dead and wounded and dying
                  are now scattered throughout New England and New York State chiefly, and their
                  moans can occasionally be heard, though their groans of repentance come too late
                  to help them.
               They recklessly invested their twenties, or fifties, or hundreds, and, in some
                  instances, their thousands of dollars, in this hum, without any knowledge of the
                  business, and without any consideration whatever, except the single aim to keep
                  the bubble floating aloft until they could realize anticipated fortunes, on a
                  larger or smaller scale, as the case might be. But the "cars have gone by," and
                  they may now wait for another train. Perhaps it will come!
               Poor fellows! Poor, deluded, crazy, reckless dupes! You have had your fun, many of
                  you, and you will soon have the opportunity to reflect over the
                  ruins that are piled up around you; while, for the time being, you may well
                  exclaim, with the sulky and flunkey Moor, 
                     "Othello's occupation's GONE!"
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLVI.
               A MOURNFUL PROCESSION.
               I WAS sitting before my comfortable library fire in midwinter, 1854, and had been
                  reflecting upon the mutability of human affairs generally, and the uncertainty of
                  Shanghae-ism more particularly, when I finally dropped into a gentle slumber in my
                  easy-chair, where I dozed away an hour, and dreamed.
               My thoughts took a very curious turn. I fancied myself sitting
                  before a large window that opened into a broad public street, in which I suddenly
                  discovered a multitude of people moving actively about; and I thought it was some
                  gala-day in the city, for the throng appeared to be excited and anxious. "The
                  people" were evidently abroad; and the crowds finally packed themselves along the
                  sidewalks, leaving the wide street open and clear; and I could over-hear the words
                  "They 're coming!" "Here they are!"
               I looked out, and beheld an immense gathering of human beings approaching in a
                  line that stretched away as far as the eye could reach,—a dense mass of moving
                  mortality, that soon arrived, and passed the window, beneath me. I was alone in
                  the room, and could ask no questions. I could only see what occurred before me;
                  and I noted down, as they passed by, this motley PROCESSION, which moved in the
                  following
               Order of March.
               ESCORT OF INDESCRIBABLES.
               Hatless Aid. [Chief Marshal in Black.] Bootless Aid.
               Police. TWO EX-MORMONS IN WHITE TUNICS. Police.
               Calathumpian Band.
               Whig Office-holders. The "Know Nothing Guards," with guns enough for
                  all useful purposes. Democrat Expectants.
               THE "INS." [COLLECTOR and POSTMASTER.] THE "OUTS."
               U.S. Marshal. The "National" Democracy, two deep, in one section. U.S. Dist.
                  Att'y.
               BANNER.
               Motto—"We know of BURNS that Russia Salve can't
                  cure."
               "Aids to the Revenue." [MARSHAL.] Drawbacks on the Revenue. Kaleb
                  Krushing. [THE MAN WHO FAINTED IN MEXICO.] Jorge ah! Poll.
               "Fanny Fern,"
               Flanked by a company of disappointed Publishers, twenty-four deep, in twelve
                  sections.
               BANNER.
               Motto.—"She's a brick!"
               Aids. [MARSHAL.] Aids.
               President of the "N. E. Mutual Admiration" Hen Society.
               Fat Marshal. [THE GREAT SHOW MAN.] Lean Marshal.
               BAND, playing the "Rogue's March."
               Marshal. GHOST OF JOICE HETH. Marshal.
               Aids, of Quaking Shakers. A Fejee Mermaid, astride the Woolly Horse. Aids, The
                  Happy Family.
               Aids, Their readers Invited Guests. The Three Historians, BURNHAM,
                  PRESCOT, and BANCRAFT. Escort in the rear, with charged bayonets. and
                  "admirers."
               Police. A genuine "COCHIN-CHINA" Rooster, succeeded by the man who
                     knew him to be such! Police.
               Marshal. Pea Wilder. The entire United States American National Agricultural
                  Society, in a one-horse buggy. Marshal. w. ESS king.
               
               [The good this association had accomplished was borne along by a
                  stout "practical farmer," in a small thimble; the records of its
                  doings were inscribed on a huge roll of paper, 16,000 yards long, carried upon a
                  truck drawn by twelve yoke of "pure" Devon oxen.]
               BANNER.—Motto: "Ourselves and those who vote for us."
               Aid, Naval Store Keeper. An ex-U. S. Navy Agent who left that office without
                  having made money out of his place! BANNER.—Motto: "Poor, but
                  honest." Aid, U.S. Sub-Treasurer.
               One hundred and twenty-five Marshals. The Mass. Hort. Improvement Society,
                     en masse, with several full bands of music,
                  on "seedling" accompaniments, etc. BANNER. Motto: "Cuss the Concord
                     Grape." Twenty-five hundred and one gold-medal seekers.
               No Aids. The man who voluntarily gave up his office under the National government,
                     solus, on horseback, with BANNER.—Motto:
                     "Few die, and none resign." No friends.
               The defunct New England Hen Society. "THE YOUNG 'UN," in his own barouche, drawn
                  by four "superb dapple-grey Shanghaes." BANNER.—Motto: "Who's
                  afraid?" MUSIC. BANNER.—Motto: "Not this child!" His
                  vanquished Competitors.
               Police. HEN MEN WHO HAD MISTAKEN THEIR CALLING, twenty-eight deep, in four hundred
                  sections. Police.
               Aids, 24 Constables. GRAIN MEN, with their bills, in seventy
                  sections, sixty-four deep. Aids, All in a row.
               BAND, playing "Hope told a flattering tale."
               Tree-venders and Horticulturists, The great-grandson of the man who set out an
                  orchard of dwarf Pear-trees (in a barouche). He was 102 years old, and believed he
                  should see fruit on those same trees "next season"! with thumbs on their
                  noses.
               Pall Bearers. [HIS COFFIN, BEHIND.] Heirs to his estate.
               Aids, 12 Respectable Physicians. BELIEVERS THAT COCHITUATE WATER IS WHOLESOME (in
                  a chaise). Aids, Board of Commissioners.
               15 Marshals. Chicken Fanciers who did n't buy their eggs of me, and
                  who expected they would hatch! (Four thousand strong.) 15
                  Marshals.
               Aids, the Conductors. A body of Express Agents, who never shook up the eggs
                  intrusted to them (though they occasionally shook down their employers). Aids, the
                  Brakemen.
               BAND.—Air: "O, I never will deceive you!"
               Flanked by the Subscribers for that "Double Harness," "My
                     friend THE PRESIDENT," In the carriage presented to him by "the people,"
                  drawn by that "superb pair of $1500 horses" which we read of in the
                  papers. and the "mourners" who did n't obtain fat offices.
               Motto: "I'll see you in the Fall." BANNERS. Motto: "Save me
                     from my friends!"
               Full Band.
               Aid, BRASS & Co. The Hatch Grey Shanghae Express Co., with the latest news
                  from Nantucket and "Marm Hackett's Garden." Motto: "IMPORTANT, IF
                  TRUE!" Aid, THE "COLONEL."
               Aid, Two Presidents. Holders of Second Mortgage R. R. Bonds, 24 deep,
                  in 2400 sections. BANNER. Motto: "There's a good time coming." Aid,
                  One Treasurer.
               Aids, 5 Regular Doctors. The owner of the first "Brahma Pootra" fowls in America,
                  with a map of India on the seat of his pantaloons. Aids, Faculty of Ripum
                  College.
               Aid, Lucy Brick. The original members of the "WOMEN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION."
                  BAND.—Air: "Why don't the men propose?" Aid, Abby Fulsome.
               Aids, The First Premium Fowls. The "wreck of Burnham's character" caused by the
                     powerful newspaper assaults of one TEE BEE MINUR, A.SS. Aids, The
                  "Porte-Monnaie I owe'em Company."
               BANNER—Motto: "Don't he feel bad!"
               No aid for him! The Poultry Fancier who had found out the exact difference between
                  a "Cochin-China" and a "Shanghae." Too far gone!
               Unpaid Compositors. Delinquent subscribers to northern Farmers,
                  twelve deep, and three miles long! Disappointed "Press Gang."
               Marshal. [The "editor," suffering from a severe attack of roup.]
                  Marshal.
               DAVID. Dr. Bangit, with the unsold copies of his Poultry-Book, in a huge
                  baggage-wagon, drawn by 14 horses. GOLIAH.
               Aids, 15 Sisters of Charity. A battalion of victims to the Hen Fever, who had
                  bought eggs that "did n't hatch," and who were waiting patiently to have their
                  money returned! Aids, 15 friends to the Insane Poor.
               Marshal and Deputy Sheriff. My legal friend (on a mule) who promised
                  to spend a thousand dollars in prosecuting me for selling him
                     Shanghae eggs for Cochin-Chinas! Jail Keeper and 4
                  Constables.
               
               Aid, Barnam. Fat Johnny Jiles, with the head of a pure "Black
                  Spanish" crower on a salver. Aid, Burnum.
               Marshals. The men who did n't take the first premiums (when I was
                  round) at the Poultry-Shows (in deep mourning). Marshals.
               Aids, A "Cabinet" of Curiosities. The political remains of Frank Pierce, in a toy
                  wheelbarrow, with BANNER, on a "sharp stick." Motto: "Veto." Aids,
                  His own Opinions!
               Aid, Editor of the Northum Farmer. Victims who purchased Minor's
                  "Patent Cross-grained Collateral Beehives," with Motto: "Burned child dreads
                     the fire." Aid, GEN. BANGIT, of the "Nauvoo Legion."
               Aids, The Sellers. Customers for "Ozier Willow," in two sections,
                     one man deep. BANNER.—Motto: "I rather guess not!"
                  Aids, The Victims.
               Marshals. A huge concourse of "Copper Stock" and "Agewuth Land" owners, in deep
                  sables. Marshals.
               FULL BAND.—Air: Dead March.
               
               BANNER.—Motto: "You 're sure to win—if you don't lose!"
               A smooth-skinned pure "Suffolk" Pig, imported.
               
               Twenty-four Sewing Machines, "warranted."
               Aid, Secretary. President of the "PORTE-MONNAIE I OWE 'EM COMPANY," as Richard
                  III. on horseback. Aid, Treasurer.
               Nine "Bother'em Pootrums," rampant.
               The few unlucky Buyers. The identical lot of "pure-bred" fowls that Bangit,
                  Plarsterd, Minor, Humm & Co., imported (over the left) "for the
                  Southern market," in 1853! The Believers in this story!
               
                  The Hen that lays two eggs a day!
                  Treasurer of the "Mut. Adm'n Society."
                  Defunct Hucksters, in a tip-cart.
                  Four empty Hen-Coops, on wheels.
                  Breeders of pure Alderney cattle!
                  who furnish Pedigrees with long tails.
               
               An effigy of the LAST MAN that will buy Shanghae chickens (in a
                  strait-jacket).
               Police and Aids. Purchasers of Live Stock who bought of my competitors; with
                  BANNER. Motto: "We got more than we bargained for!" Sheriff and
                  posse.
               The Hen-Men who "pity Poor Burnham."
               MY OWN CASH CUSTOMERS,
               10,000 strong!
               
               CAVALCADE.
               "THE PEOPLE,"
               MUSIC,
               And the rest of Mankind,
               etc.
               The scene was closing! That immense concourse of humbugs and humbugged had passed
                  on, and I was alone once more. But, a moment afterwards, I saw the head and face
                  of a comical and good-humored looking Yankee (just beneath the window), who was in
                  the act of puffing into the air a huge budget of bubbles, that danced and floated
                  in the atmosphere for a brief moment, and which, bursting, suddenly awoke me. Here
                  is a sketch of the finale.
               
               
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLVII.
               MY SHANGHAE DINNER.
               I SAW by the papers, one day, late in the year 1854, an account of the return from
                  England of my fat friend Giles, who brought with him the poultry purchased abroad
                  for Mr. Barnum, and which proved to be a lot of pure stock, of a
                  remarkable character, as I supposed it would be.
               But, while John was absent in Great Britain, the knowing ones there shook him
                  down, beautifully! His theory, when he left America, four months previously, was
                  that "hall 'at was wanted 'ere was to get hover from Hingland pure-bred fowls, and
                  such would sell." John brought over "such," and they did
                  sell; but Barnum was sold by far the worst!
               An auction was immediately got up at the American Museum, in New York; and after a
                  vast deal of drumming, puffing and advertising this magnificent, just-imported,
                  pure-bred poultry, the sale came off, to a sorry company, indeed! And the gross
                  amount of the sales of the fowls thus disposed of, really, was insufficient to pay
                  the freight bills for bringing them across the Atlantic, to say
                  nothing of their original high cost abroad. The show-man has since left the
                  hen-business, I learn, "a wiser if not a better man;" while John retired with the
                  simple exclamation, "Most extr'ornerry result I hever 'eer'd of in hall my
                  life!"
               Soon after this little episode occurred, the second show of the "National Poultry
                  Society" (in January, 1855) came off at Barnum's Museum, in New York; which,
                  notwithstanding the best endeavors of the "President," was a failure. The
                  "Committee" shut out of their premium list the Grey Shanghaes, altogether; and the
                  result of this last exhibition was just what I had anticipated. But Mr. Barnum can
                  well afford to foot the bills; and, as he is perfectly willing to do this, no
                  objection will be raised to his choice, I presume. This final exhibition at New
                  York, I have no doubt, closed up the business, for the present.
               As soon as this last fair had closed, and when the lucky and unlucky contributors
                  returned to Boston, I invited a party of my former confrères to my residence, to dinner. I had been preparing for this
                  little event for several days; and the following was the actual "bill of fare" to
                  which we all sat down, at RUSSET HOUSE, Melrose, on the fifth day of
                  February, 1855:
               
               
                  Dinner.
                  SOUP—A la SHANGHAE.
                  FRESH FISH—WITH CHINA SAUCE.
                  BOILED FOWL—To wit, the identical Grey Shanghae cock (two years old)
                        which took the premium at the FIRST National Poultry Show, in
                        New York, in 1854; then valued at $100.
                  ROAST—Shanghae Cock, nine months old, weighing, dressed, 10¾ pounds.
                  ROAST—Shanghae Pullets, same age, drawing, dressed, 7½ pounds each.
                  ROAST—Spring Shanghae Chickens in variety.
                  BAKED—Pure "Suffolk" Pig, with genu-wine "Mandarin" Sauce.
                  ENTREMENTS. 
                        BROILED Shanghae Chicks.
                        STEWED Shanghae Chickens.
                        CURRIED Shanghae Fowls.
                        FRIED Shanghae Pullets.
                        CODDLED Shanghae Stags.
                        FRICASSEED Shanghaes.
                        SHANGHAES TRUFFLED,
                        and MORE SHANGHAES, IF WANTED!
                     
                  
                  DESSERT. 
                        Shanghae Chicken Pie.
                        Shanghae Omelets.
                        Shanghae Custards.
                        Chinese Pudding.
                        Pudding a la Shanghae.
                        Candied Cocks' Spurs.
                        Crystallized Pullets' Combs.
                        Shanghae Wattles, in Syrup.
                        SHANGHAE-QUILL TOOTH-PICKS,
                        and MORE SHANGHAES IN THE YARD!
                     
                  
               
               To this repast, with thankful hearts, a company of five-and-twenty sat down, and,
                  as nearly as my recollection now serves me, the friends did ample justice to my
                  Shanghae dinner. After two hours over the varied dishes (varied in
                  size and style of cooking only), the cloth was removed, and the intellectual treat
                  commenced with a song, written "expressly for this occasion," by the Young 'Un,
                  which was delivered with admirable effect by "one who had been there," and in the
                  chorus of which the guests unitedly joined, with surprising harmony and unison.
                  The following toasts were then submitted:
               
                  By the Man in the Black Coat.—The Memory of the defunct Rooster we
                  have this day devoured: Peace to his manes! (Drank standing, in silence.)
               
                  By a Successful Breeder.—The health, long life, and prosperity, of
                  our absent cash customers,—at home and abroad.
               
                  By an Amateur.—Honor to the discoverer of the exact difference
                  between a "Shanghae" and a "Cochin-China" fowl, if he shall ever turn up!
               
                  By the "Confidence" Man.—The Continuity of the beautifully-elongated
                  Chinese fowls: May their shadows never be less!
               
                  By a Victim.—The Bother'em Wot-yer-call-'ems: Dammum! (Nine cheers
                  for Doctors Bennett and Miner.)
               
               
                  By a Disappointed "Fancier."—Barn-yard fowls and white-shelled eggs,
                  for my money. (Three cheers for the old-style biddies.)
               
                  By the Youth in a White Vest.—"Fanny Fern": The hen that lays the
                  golden eggs. (Six cheers for Fanny, and the fair sex generally.)
               
                  By a Repentant.—The whole Shanghae Tribe: Curse 'em; the more
                     fowls you see of this race, the less eggs there are
                  about! (This was deemed slightly personal, but it was permitted to
                  pass; the gentleman spoke with unusual feeling; he had been only three years in
                  the trade, and had expended some sixteen hundred dollars in experimenting with a
                  view to establish a breed that would lay two eggs
                  daily.)
               
                  By One of my "Friends."—The Young 'Un: The only hen-man who has put
                  the knife in up to the handle with a decent grace! (Nine cheers followed, for the
                  importer of the only pure-bred poultry in America.)
               This last sentiment called me to my feet, naturally enough; and, as nearly as I
                  remember, I thus addressed my guests, amidst the most marked and respectful
                  attention:
               "GENTLEMEN: I think I have seen it written somewhere, or I have heard it said, 'It
                  is a long lane that has no turn in it.' I believe, however, that, although the
                  lane we have most of us been travelling for the last six years has proved somewhat
                  tortuous as well as lengthy, we have now passed the turn in it, and
                  have arrived very nearly at the end of the road.
               "Few of you, gentlemen, have met with so many thorns, en
                     route, as I have; none of you, perhaps, have gathered so many roses.
                  I am content, and I trust that everybody is as well satisfied with the results of
                  this journey as I am. The Shanghae trade is done,
                  gentlemen! We have this day eaten up what, four years ago, would have been the
                  nucleus, at least, of a small fortune to any one of us who at that time might have
                  chanced to have possessed it. But the fever is over; the demand for giraffe cocks
                  and chaise-top hens is passed; the 'poor remains of beauty once admired, in my
                  premium fowls,' now lie scattered about the dishes that have just left this table;
                  and 'Brahma-pootra-ism' is now no longer rampant.
               "Perhaps, gentlemen, as you entertain opinions of your own upon this delightfully
                  pleasing subject of poultry-raising generally, and of the propagation of Shanghae
                  fowls in particular, you would care to hear nothing of my views regarding this
                  point. Yet, I pray you, indulge me for a single moment—in all seriousness—and
                  permit me to say (without the slightest intention of being personal), that we have
                  proved ourselves a clan of short-sighted mortals, at the best, during the last
                  half-dozen years, in our crazy devotion to what we have deemed an honorable and
                  laudable 'profes- sion,' but which has
                  been, in reality, the most shallow, heartless, unreasonable, silly and bottomless
                  humbug that grown-up men have ever been cajoled with, since the hour when Adam was
                  fooled by the accomplished and coquetting Eve!" (Cries of "You're more 'n half
                  right!" "That's a fact!" "Exactly—just so!")
               "There is now living in Melrose, Mass., gentlemen, a breeder who begun at the
                  beginning of this excitement, who has since followed up the details of this hum
                  with a zeal worthy of a better cause; and who has accumulated a handsome
                  competency in this traffic, by attending strictly to his own affairs, while he has
                  uniformly acted upon the principle that this world is sufficiently capacious to
                  accommodate all God's creatures, without jostling. If you should chance to meet
                  this now retired fowl-fancier, he will tell you that he has had, and believes he
                  still has, many personal friends; but the very best 'friend' he has
                  ever known is the enjoyment of his present income of eight per cent. interest, per
                  annum, upon thirty thousand dollars. But this is a digression, and I beg pardon
                  for the allusion.
               "I look back with no regrets at the past, gentlemen. We have seen a great many
                  merry days, and, in the midst of the competition and humbuggery in which we
                  enlisted, we have often differed in sentiment. But here.—at the close
                  of the route on which we have so long been journeying,—let us remember only the
                  good traits that we any of us possess, while from this point we forget the errors
                  that ourselves and our companions may have committed, forever." (Three times
                  three, "and one more," were here given for the speaker, his friends, and all the
                  rest of mankind.)
               "I will say no more, gentlemen. My stomach is too full for further convenient
                  utterance; and I will conclude with a sentiment to which, I am sure, you will all
                  respond. I will give you—
               "'The Hen Fever!'"—
               "Don't, don't!" shrieked the crowd. "We've had that disease once, and
                  that is quite sufficient."
               "Indulge me, gentlemen, one moment, and I will propose, then—
               "'THE HEN TRADE: Though a fowl calling, it puts fair
                  money in the purse, when "judiciously" managed. May none of you ever do worse,
                  pecuniarily, in this humble "profession," than has your friend—the
                  subscriber.'"
               Another round of hearty cheers succeeded this sentiment, a parting bumper was
                  enjoyed, and the circle separated, to meet again at Philippi,—or elsewhere,—where
                  the author hopes to encounter only friendly faces, whatever may have been his
                  business relations with his acquaintances in the days that are now passed away.
               The mania is over. I have frankly repeated to you the humble history of this
                  curious fever, and we have reached
               
                  
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY JAMES FRENCH & CO.,
            78 Washington Street, Boston.
            
               SCHOOL BOOKS.
               
                  FOSTER'S BOOK-KEEPING, BY DOUBLE AND SINGLE ENTRY,
                  both in single and copartnership business, exemplified in three sets of books.
                     Twelfth Edition. 8vo. Cloth, extra. 1 00
               
               
                  FOSTER'S BOOK-KEEPING, BY SINGLE ENTRY,
                  exemplified in two sets of books. Boards. 38
               
               
                  FRENCH'S SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL PENMANSHIP,
                  founded on scientific movements; combining the principles on which the method
                     of teaching is based.—Illustrated by engraved copies, for the use of Teachers
                     and Learners. Twenty-seventh Edition. 25
                  This little treatise seems well fitted to teach everything which can be taught
                     of the theory of Penmanship. The style proposed is very simple. The copperplate
                     fac-similes of Mr. French's writing are as neat as anything of the kind we ever
                        saw.—Post.
                  
                  Mr. French has illustrated his theory with some of the most elegant specimens
                     of execution, which prove him master of his science.—Courier.
                  
                  
                  This work is of a useful character, evidently illustrating an excellent system.
                     We have already spoken of it in terms of approbation.—Journal.
                  
                  This little work of his is one of the best and most useful publications of the
                     kind that we have seen.—Transcript.
                  
               
               
                  BEAUTIES OF WRITING,
                  containing twenty large specimens of Ornamental Penmanship, Pen Drawing, and
                     off-hand Flourishing. 75
               
               
                  BOSTON COPY-BOOK;
                  comprising nearly two hundred engraved copies, for the use of Schools and
                     Academies. 42
               
               
                  LADIES' COPY-BOOK,
                  containing many beautiful engraved copies, which are a perfect imitation of the
                     natural hand writing; also including German Text and Old English. 17
               
               
                  BOSTON ELEMENTARY COPY-BOOK,
                  comprising large and small Text Hand, for Schools. 12½
               
               
                  COOK'S MERCANTILE SYSTEM OF PENMANSHIP.
                  Fourth Revised Edition. 37½
               
               
                  THE ART of PEN-DRAWING,
                  containing examples of the usual styles, adorned with a variety of Figures and
                     Flourishes, executed by command of hand. Also a variety of Ornamental
                     Penmanship. 75
               
            
            
               MISCELLANEOUS AND JUVENILE.
               
                  TURKEY AND THE TURKS,
                  by Dr. J. V. C. Smith, Mayor of Boston. 320 pages. 12mo. Cloth. 75
                  It is a most excellent work. It will have a large sale, for it embraces more
                     real information about real Turks and their strange peculiarities than anything
                     we have yet read.—Post.
                  
               
               
                  THE MASSACHUSETTS STATE RECORD,
                  for the years 1847, 1848, 1849, 1850 and 1851; one of the most valuable
                     American Statistical Works. 5 vols. 12mo. Cloth. 5 00
               
               
                  THE NEW HAMPSHIRE FESTIVAL.
                  A graphic account of the Assemblage of the "Sons of New Hampshire" at Boston,
                     Hon. Daniel Webster presiding. Illustrated with portraits of Webster, Woodbury
                     and Wilder. 8vo. Cloth, gilt. 2 00
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges and Sides. 3 00
               
               
                  SECOND FESTIVAL
                  of the "Sons of New Hampshire." Illustrated with portraits of Webster, Wilder,
                     Appleton and Chickering. 8vo. Cloth, gilt. 2 00
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges and Sides. 3 00
               
               
                  FESTIVAL.
                  2 vols. in one. 8vo. Cloth, gilt. 2 50
               
               
                  ELEANOR: OR, LIFE WITHOUT LOVE.
                  12mo. Cloth. 75
               
               
                  LIFE IN ENGLAND AND AMERICA.
                  Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth. 75
               
               
                  THE VACATION: OR, MRS. STANLEY AND HER CHILDREN.
                  By Mrs. J. Thayer. Illustrated. 18mo. Cloth. Third Edition. 50
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges. 75
               
               
                  SUNSHINE AND SHADE: OR, THE DENHAM FAMILY.
                  By Sarah Maria. Fourth Edition. 18mo. Cloth. 37½
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges. 56
               
               
                  THE DREAM FULFILLED: OR, THE TRIALS AND TRIUMPHS OF THE MORELAND
                     FAMILY.
                  18mo. Cloth. 42
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges. Fifth Edition. 62½
               
               
                  THE COOPER'S SON: OR, THE PRIZE OF VIRTUE.
                  A Tale of the Revolution. Written for the Young. 18mo. Cloth. Sixth Edition.
                     (In press.) 37½
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges. 56
               
               
                  
                  THE SOCIABLE STORY TELLER.
                  Being a Selection of new Anecdotes, humorous Tales, amusing Stories and
                     Witticisms; calculated to entertain and enliven the Social Circle. Third
                     Edition. 18mo. Cloth. 42
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges. 62½
               
               
                  TALMUDIC MAXIMS.
                  Translated from the Hebrew; together with other sayings, compiled from various
                     authors. By L. S. D'Israel. 18mo. Cloth. 50
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges. 75
               
               
                  LECTURES TO YOUTH.
                  Containing instructions preparatory to their entrance upon the active duties of
                     life. By Rev. R. F. Lawrence. 18mo. Cloth. 50
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges. 75
               
               
                  THE SABBATH MADE FOR MAN: OR, INSTITUTED BY DIVINE AUTHORITY.
                  By Rev. Dr. Cornell. 18mo. Cloth. 33½
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges. 50
               
               
                  CONSUMPTION FORESTALLED AND PREVENTED.
                  By W. M. Cornell, A. M., M. D., member of the Mass. Medical Society. 18mo.
                     Cloth. Fourth Edition. 37½
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges. 56
               
               
                  PASSION AND OTHER TALES.
                  By Mrs. J. Thayer, Author of "Floral Gems," &c. &c. 16mo. Cloth.
                     62½
               
               
                  TURNOVER.
                  A Tale of New Hampshire. Paper. 25
               
               
                  THE HISTORY OF THE HEN FEVER; A HUMOROUS RECORD.
                  By Geo. P. Burnham. With twenty Illustrations. 12mo. Cloth. 1 25
                  The work is written in a happy but ludicrous style, and this reliable history
                     of the fowl mania in America, will create an
                     immense sensation.—Courier.
                  
               
            
            
               NEW MINIATURE VOLUMES.
               
                  THE ART OF CONVERSING.
                  Written for the instruction of Youth in the polite manners and language of the
                     drawing-room, by a Society of Gentlemen; with an illustrative title. Fourteenth
                     Edition. Gilt Edges. 37½
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges and Sides. 50
               
               
                  FLORAL GEMS: OR, THE SONGS OF THE FLOWERS.
                  By Mrs. J. Thayer. Thirteenth Edition, with a beautiful frontispiece. Gilt
                     Edges. 37½
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges and Sides. 50
               
               
                  THE AMETHYST: OR, POETICAL GEMS.
                  A Gift Book for all seasons. Illustrated. Gilt Edges. 37½
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges and Sides. 40
               
               
                  ZION.
                  With Illustrative Title. By Rev. Mr. Taylor. 42
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges and Sides. 56
               
               
                  THE TRIUNE.
                  With Illustrative Title. By Rev. Mr. Taylor. 37½
               
               
                  TRIAD.
                  With Illustrative Title. By Rev. Timothy A. Taylor. 37½
               
               
                  TWO MOTTOES.
                  By Rev. T. A. Taylor. 37½
               
               
                  SOLACE.
                  By Rev. T. A. Taylor. 37½
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges and Sides. 50
               
               
                  SONNETS.
                  By Edward Moxon. 31¼
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges and Sides. 50
               
               
                  GRAY'S ELEGY, AND OTHER POEMS.
                  The Poetical Works of Thomas Gray. "Poetry—Poetry;—Gray—Gray!" [Daniel Webster,
                     the night before his death, Oct. 24, 1852.]. 31
                  THE SAME, Gilt Edges and Sides. 50
               
            
            
               
               The following Writing Books are offered on Liberal Terms.
               
                  FRENCH'S NEW WRITING BOOK,
                  with a fine engraved copy on each page. Just published, in Four Numbers, on a
                     highly-improved plan.
                  
                     No. 1 Contains the First Principles, &c. 10
                     No. 2 A fine Copy Hand. 10
                     No. 3 A bold Business Hand Writing. 10
                     No. 4 Beautiful Epistolary Writing for the Lady. 10
                  
                  James French & Co., No. 78 Washington street, have just published a new
                     series of Writing Books for the use of Schools and Academies. They are arranged
                     upon a new and improved plan, with a copy on each page, and ample instructions
                     for learners. We commend them to the attention of teachers and
                        parents.—Transcript.
                  
                  They commence with those simple forms which the learner needs first to make,
                     and they conduct him, by natural and appropriate steps, to those styles of the
                     art which indicate the chirography not only of the finished penman, but which
                     are adapted to the wants of those who wish to become accomplished
                        accountants.—Courier.
                  
                  A new and original system of Writing Books, which cannot fail to meet with
                     favor. They consist of a series, and at the top of each page is a
                     finely-executed copy. We cordially recommend the work.—Bee.
                  
                  It is easily acquired, practical and beautiful.—Fitchburg
                        Sentinel.
                  
                  We have no hesitation in pronouncing them superior to anything of the kind ever
                        issued.—Star Spangled Banner.
                  
               
               
                  FRENCH'S PRACTICAL WRITING BOOK,
                  for the use of Schools and Academies; in Three Numbers, with a copy for each
                     page.
                  
                     No. 1, Commencing with the First Principles. 10
                     No. 2, Running-hand copies for Business Purposes. 10
                     No. 3, Very fine copies, together with German Text and Old English.
                        10
                  
               
               
                  BOSTON SCHOOL WRITING BOOK,
                  for the use of Public and Private Schools; in Six Numbers, with copies to
                     assist the Teacher and aid the Learner.
                  
                     No. 1 Contains the Elementary Principles, together with the Large Text
                        Hand. 10
                     No. 2 Contains the Principles and First Exercises for a Small Hand.
                        10
                     No. 3 Consists of the Capital Letters, and continuation of Small Letters.
                        10
                     No. 4 Contains Business-hand Copies, beautifully executed. 10
                     No. 5 Consists of a continuation of Business Writing, also an Alphabet of
                        Roman Print. 10
                     No. 6 Contains many beautiful specimens of Epistolary Writing, also an
                        Alphabet of Old English and German Text. 10
                  
               
               
                  LADIES' WRITING BOOK,
                  for the use of Teachers and Learners, with three engraved copies on each page,
                     and the manner of holding the pen, sitting at the table, &c., explained.
                     13
               
               
                  GENTLEMEN'S WRITING BOOK,
                  for the use of Teachers and Learners, with three engraved copies on each page,
                     and the manner of holding the pen, sitting at the table, &c., explained.
                     13
               
               
                  YANKEE PENMAN,
                  Containing 48 pages, with engraved copies. 33
               
               
                  FRENCH'S EAGLE COVER WRITING BOOKS,
                  made of fine blue paper, without copies. 7
               
            
         
      
   
