
    ----CITATION----
        Anderson, Florence. Zenaida .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5582
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               ZENAIDA. 
             
            BY FLORENCE ANDERSON.
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
             
            1858. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of congress, in the year 1858, by FLORENCE ANDERSON, in the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Kentucky. 
          
          
             
            TO My father, 
            THIS WORK IS DEDICATED, 
            BY FLORENCE. 
             
               DEAR FATHER, take this little book, 
               My heart of love doth offer thee; 
               Of days now past it oft may bring 
               To thee, some pleasing memory. 
             
             
               The gift I bring has little worth, 
               Save, what it borrows from the heart; 
               'Twas wrought in love, and so may now 
               Some joy to thee impart. 
             
             
               Of thought's sweet thornless Bowers I've twined 
               A New-Year's wreath for thee; 
               Despise it not, but wear it then 
               In memory of me. 
             
             
               In Heaven, again I'll wreathe a crown 
               Of Amaranth flowers for thee, 
               Unfading, deathless, it shall, bloom, 
               Through all Eternity. 
             
             
             
               As Time, with restless wings, speeds on, 
               And circling years glide by, 
               
                  I may be called from darkness here 
               To worlds of light on high, 
             
             
               And thou be left; if this it be, 
               When Memory calls on thee 
               To roam with her, through scenes of yore,- 
               Then think, oh think of me! 
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            IT is not without some hesitation that I venture to introduce the ideal personages of my story to the public, as candidates for its favorable consideration. May I be pardoned, when I express the hope that many allowances will be made for the faults, doubtless but too apparent, in this the first work of a young and inexperienced writer? If it be deemed unworthy a place among the popular fictions of the day, let it be passed by in silence; but if there be in the book any germ of truth any bud of promise, let it be expanded under the genial influence of kindly appreciation, not withered by the blighting frost of harsh censure. 
            If I may beguile the tedium of a weary hour, afford pleasure to friends who love me, or sow one seed of good, can it be said "Ocni funiculum torsit"-She hath labored in vain? 
          
       
      
         
            Zenaida 
             
             
            ZENAIDA. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               "COME, Antoinette," said Mrs. Cabell to her friend, Mrs. Bainbridge, "suppose we take a stroll this fine evening. I will guide you in one of my favorite paths, and will be delighted to point out to you some of the beauties of our sylvan landscape." 
               With their permission, we will follow these ladies, as they emerge from the stately avenue of trees which formed the entrance to the grounds of Cabell Manor, and take the path along the side of this little streamlet, now winding among forest-trees of many centuries' growth, whose foliage is so dense that at midday a ray of sunlight penetrates with difficulty; now emerging from this natural temple, where silence is supremely eloquent, upon a stretch of velvet-like greensward, dotted with clumps of trees. A little rustic bridge here spans the gurgling waters of the brook, and from it the path winds up the gentle acclivity of a hill, which is one of many that diversify the landscape. 
               Mrs. Cabell pauses upon the summit, for the ascent has fatigued her. 
                
               "I," she said, "am not so active as I have been, and must rest awhile here; but, Antoinette, take a peep at that pretty pottage below us, nestling among vines and trees. That is the goal I had in view when I left home. I must introduce you to the inmates of this rural paradise, and I hope you may like them, as you will soon be located near them." 
               A few minutes' walk brings us to the cottage gate. The appearance presented by the place is more than usually attractive; for the rain-drops from the recent shower still gem the flowers and leaves, and reflect the last rays of the sun, which linger lovingly upon the quiet beauty of the spot. While we pass slowly up the graveled walk which leads to the house, let us examine closely, analyzing the elements which combine so harmoniously to form this simple but charming picture. The yard is not large; but contains fine specimens of some of our most beautiful forest-trees,-a large oak, several maples, and the dense beech. In one corner, forming a natural bower, with their drooping branches, stand two weeping-willows, while rose-bushes and various kinds of flowering shrubs skirt the borders and peep at us, with their bright-eyed blossoms, from their hiding-places in the grass. Wistarias and honeysuckles twine round the trees, and hang garlands from their lower branches. The cottage-front presents one mass of flowering vines, roses, jessamines, and clematis, inseparably intertwined, arching above the entrance, and hanging so low that they salute our cheek as we pass under. 
               In this sweet nook we find one of the birds who makes his secluded spot vocal, when she can be roused from her books or from the reveries in which she indulges. 
                
               She is now so intent upon some volume, too ponderous for her little hands, that she is not aware of our approach until addressed by name; for had she known that we were coming, she would have sought, hastily, some more secure hiding-place, so shy is she of strangers. Now she startles at the sound of her wild, soft name, as though still undetermined whether to run, or remain to entertain the guests, until released by the arrival of her father or elder sister. 
               The family of Mr. Morris, the proprietor of Willowbrook, consisted of his two daughters, Helen and Zenaida, and several servants. He was a gentleman of good lineage, cultivated mind, and limited pecuniary resources, which enabled him to live upon this little place, supplied with the necessaries of life, but restricted in the indulgence of its luxuries. 
               To the education of his girls he devoted his time, deeming knowledge the best inheritance he could bequeath to them. 
               Helen, the eldest, was a specimen of country beauty-black haired, black eyed, and rosy cheeked, a practical, energetic, sensible girl, cheerful and obliging in disposition, the favorite companion of her father. Although but seventeen years of age, she superintended the domestic arrangements of the household in a manner which would have done no discredit to older and more experienced housekeepers. The house under her dominion always presented an air of perfect neatness, though its adornments were of a character so simple that they would have called a smile of contempt to the lip of those accustomed to the regal magnificence of the palace-like residences now so common in our land. 
                
               The parlor, or best room, on this day presented an aspect at once cheerful and elegant; for in it the hands of Zenaida had arranged bouquets and vases of flowers with an artistic effect which they alone could produce. Her canary hung by the open window, through which the soft evening breeze came in, swaying the light muslin curtain with a billowy motion. 
               Outside the window the vines furnished a safe retreat for the birds, which Zenaida esteemed it her especial privilege to feed and tend with a devotion truly admirable. 
               On a little table by this window were many books, and a little basket, containing the fancy needle-work, which was another favorite occupation of Zenaida. She would here ply her needle, watching with pleasure the figures that grew into beauty beneath her fingers, and wishing that she could become skillful in the time-honored art of embroidery, as some of the heroines of old, of whom she read, that she might thus perpetuate the memory of incidents in her life, if she should ever experience any worthy of being recorded; while before her, as examples, would rise the sad Andromache, the fair, unfortunate Mary Stuart, and many others. 
               But we have given no idea, however unsatisfactory, of our wild-flower, Zenaida. She could not be called perfectly beautiful; but the expression of her face was such that the beholder was not content with a passing glance. Her face wore not the vivid bloom of her sister's, but was fair, too fair for a child, and her eyes haunted you, long after seeing her, with the mournful intensity of their gaze. When not employed with her books, or sewing, they were fixed on vacancy, with an eager, questioning glance, as if she sought penetrate the hidden mysteries of futurity. She was habitually silent; but when roused from her apparently dormant state by any act of injustice, or what seemed such to her sensitive spirit, her eyes would flash, her nostril dilate, and her tongue loosed from the thraldom of silence, would give utterance to a torrent of eloquence irresistible and overwhelming. 
               Although younger by two years than Helen, her acquirements were superior as far as the knowledge of books and the appreciation of the noblest sentiments of lofty minds was concerned. The little room, which was called the library, was her favorite resort in the house, and all the books (of which Mr. Morris had preserved a good collecting, a relic of happier days and better fortune) had been devoured by her, without being sufficient to satisfy the cravings of her appetite for knowledge. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               "O PAPA," said Helen, springing to meet him as he came through the gate, "where have you been? Supper is ready, and I have been waiting for you, until I began to feel uneasy at your prolonged absence. What detained you?" 
               "Nothing of importance, my child," replied Mr. Morris; "I rode over to Montrose, and while there met with some acquaintances, with whom I chatted, not noticing the lengthening shadows of evening, until the sun was nearly gone. I then started as soon as possible, but it has taken me until this time to reach home. But where is Zenaida?" 
                
               "I do not know where she is," responded Helen. "Our neighbor, Mrs. Cabell, called here this evening with a friend of hers, and Zenaida was reading so absorbedly that they came upon her in the portico before she saw them, and it was then too late to escape. She overcame her bashfulness sufficiently to invite them in, and to request them to be seated, until she could summon me. As soon as I came, she vanished, and I have not seen her since. I wish she would conquer her timidity, or at least try to do so; for it is positively painful to see her blush, when any one happens to look at her." 
               "She is a strange child," replied Mr. Morris; "time, however, may conquer this defect, if it may be so considered. But I want to see her. Helen, ring the bell," 
               A neat, bright-eyed black boy answered the summons. "Milton," said Mr. Morris, "tell Miss Zenaida I wish to see her." 
               The boy bowed, and departed with alacrity to obey the mandate of his master; for he was one who ruled by love, and not by fear, and all seemed to strive to be first to execute the orders of one whose yoke was not galling even to the most sensitive. 
               Zenaida was found in the garden, where she had been tying up the flowers that were bending with the weight of their own sweetness. 
               As soon as she heard that papa had come, she hurried to the house, with heart brimming with affection and eyes beaming with love; and, entering with her noiseless step, her arms were round his neck, her soft kiss upon his brow, before he knew that she had come. 
                
               "Ah! little daughter," said Mr. Morris, "where were you hiding, not to know that papa had come, or that supper was ready?" 
               "I was in the garden, papa," replied the soft voice of Zenaida. 
               "Well, Zenaida," he continued, "why did you run away from Mrs. Cabell this evening, as Helen tells me you did? Was she not friendly?" 
               "Yes," replied Helen, "she was very friendly, and invited me very kindly to come, to see her, and I will go. May I not, papa?" 
               Still Zenaida said nothing, and her father seemed at a loss to know what interpretation to put upon her silence. 
               "Certainly, I wish you to go, Helen," he said. "You have never returned Miss Annie's visit, have you?" 
               "No, papa," she replied; "but I would rather go to see Mrs. Cabell than Annie. She is so haughty." 
               "And, papa," broke forth Zenaida, "if you could have seen that Mrs. Bainbridge, the lady who was with Mrs. Cabell. Her pretty lip (for it is still pretty, though she is no longer young) curled as she came in, and she said in an undertone to Mrs. Cabell, 'That it was really surprising to her that people, if they were poor, could exist in such a pigeon-box as this;' and then she drew her dress up, as she sat down, as though she feared it would be contaminated by coming in contact with the carpet. Mrs. Cabell, fearful that this ill-timed remark had been heard, was more than usually polite to me. I watched this Mrs. Bainbridge when Helen came in, and though she addressed her in the sweetest, blandest tone imaginable, I felt assured that she was indulging dulging her contempt, at the expense of Helen's plain muslin dress, which despite its plainness, was perfectly neat and very becoming. I have no patience with persons who value others according to mere external adornments-the jewel, however rare, being counted as worthless, unless displayed in costly setting. A trite simile, I confess, but well adapted to the text." 
               "Nay, Zenaida," said Mr. Morris, "perhaps you judge the lady harshly. The few minutes during which you were with her were insufficient to enable you to form a definite, correct opinion concerning her." 
               "Some persons," she replied, "I know intuitively, and I am either attracted or repelled so forcibly that it is with difficulty I ever subdue or erase a first impression." 
               "The feelings of one whose sensibilities are so acute, so easily roused as yours, are not an infallible criterion upon which to form an opinion of another," said Mr. Morris. 
               "Well," replied Zenaida, "if you were fortunate enough to convince me that my theory of attraction and repulsion was erroneous, you know 
                      
                        'A man convinced against his will, 
                        Is of the same opinion still;' 
                     
                   so a truce to this uninteresting discussion. What news did you bring from Montrose to-day, papa?" 
               "None worthy of repetition, I believe," he answered. "Oh, yes! There is a new minister at our Grove Church, and Mr. Bainbridge has purchased the beautiful estate of Maplehurst, and will soon take up his abode there for the summer; so that your unfavorable impression in regard to Mrs. Bainbridge bridge is unfortunate, as she will be a near neighbor, and her children might prove valuable acquisitions to your limited circle of acquaintances. Look on the table, Zenaida," he continued, "and you will find a book I brought for you-a copy of poems-Coleridge and Keats bound together." 
               "Oh, how delightful!" exclaimed Zenaida, as she turned the leaves. "The Ancient Mariner, Hyperion, Endymion, and many other things I wished so much to see. You are so good, papa, to think of me." 
               "My child," he said, imprinting a good-night kiss upon her fair forehead, "do not sit up all night to read that book, or I shall regret that I brought it to you. Your cheek is pale now, and I fear you read too much-take too little exercise. I do not wish you to cultivate your intellectual faculties at the expense of your physical powers. Remember my old advice-preserve the 'mens sana in corpore sano.'" 
               "Good-night, papa," replied Zenaida; "do not disturb your kind, solicitous heart about my pale face. I will not sit up late, though this book is an almost irresistible temptation." 
               With these words she proceeded to her room. She was about to obey the injunction of her father, not to sit up longer; but the window was open, and through it the moonlight came in, illuminating the room with its silvery radiance. She sat down, and, leaning her head on her hands, remained spell-bound. 
               
                   
                     She gazes on the still earth, calmly sleeping 
                     Beneath the moon's soft, holy, silvery light; 
                     She gazes on that moon forever keeping 
                     Her watch as a guardian of the silent night. 
                      
                     She sees those far blue heavens reflected clearly 
                     In the bright mirror of the sylvan stream, 
                     And all the tales of sin seem to her merely 
                     The dread imagining of some hideous dream. 
                  
                   
                     The air that whispers soft, to her seems laden 
                     With odors from the groves of paradise, 
                     And its low-murmured music, heard of old in Eden, 
                     The voice of her soul's God, who made those skies 
                     With all their shining hosts; and as she hears, she bows 
                     Her soul in deepest reverence, and of Him she prays 
                     That her whole life be holy as this evening's close, 
                     Calm as the solemn twilight all her days. 
                  
                   
                     There is no note of wail amid the soft sweet numbers 
                     That lull her spirit to this deep repose; 
                     Her heart is ignorant of the grief which slumbers 
                     In it, like perfume in the unopened rose. 
                     The branches of life's tree for her grow upward, 
                     And joyous rustle in each passing breeze; 
                     She, blissful, knows not it may soon droop downward, 
                     A weeping-willow, saddest 'mong the trees. 
                  
                
               With heart attuned to prayer, she slept the sleep of the innocent, while round her hovered holy angels, bringing with them, from the gates of heaven, dreams, upon which the glory of the abode of the blest still lingered, when they encompassed the sweet sleeper. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE next morning, when Helen woke, Zenaida had flown from her nest by her side; but as she never interfered with her disposition of her leisure time, she rose, and went down to set in order her domestic machinery for the day. 
               Zenaida, roused from her slumbers by the sweet matin songs of the early birds, had stopped for awhile in the portico to see how many fresh blossoms the night-dews and the new light of another morning had awakened into life. 
               
                   
                     Above the door, with tendrils closely twining, 
                     The vines are interknit; and starry eyes 
                     Upon her through the dark-green leaves are shining, 
                     Looking their love with many fragrant sighs. 
                     As the wind sweeps, they bend with graceful motion 
                     To press a soft kiss on her brow of snow; 
                     Then, as they wave, they gleam like foam of ocean, 
                     Flushed with the rosy morning's crimson glow. 
                  
                
               We may trace her path by the trail along the grass, where her light feet have brushed the moisture from the dripping blades. This path leads you to the garden gate, where, peeping under its arch of vines, we see Zenaida; her cheek fanned by the morning breeze, her hair glistening in the early sunlight. In this undisturbed retreat she communes with herself, giving utterance to her thoughts and feelings; but were any to intrude, her fancies would take flight like a frightened covey, and remain beyond recall until she was once more alone. 
                
               
                   
                     Her flowers were her companions ever dear, 
                     Who smiled with her in joy-in sorrow wept; 
                     In glowing spring she loved them, and when sere 
                     The yellow wings of autumn o'er them swept; 
                     For her their bright eyes looked with glance of pleasure, 
                     When first the orient beams shone o'er the fields- 
                     For her at evening, in the fullest measure, 
                     Each swinging censer richest perfume yields. 
                     Now as she stands, the loving red rose bends 
                     To flush her pearly cheek with its own hue, 
                     And now the queen-like lily to her lends 
                     Her cup o'erflowing with bright morning dew. 
                  
                
               Every flower is closely inspected by her, each new beauty producing an ever-recurring, ever-increasing thrill of delight. She tries to decide which is most beautiful-the white, red, or pink roses, the lilies, pansies, pinks, or jasmines, and her heart refuses to pronounce a verdict. Each one has a glory peculiarly its own, and each differs from the other in glory. 
               As she looked upon them, she fancied she could see the beautiful face of a flower-angel peeping out from each-could hear the faint, silvery tones of their voices, calling upon her in accents of love. But among them were no jealousies. 
               "Were the Goddess of Discord to throw her apple here, with the inscription 'Detur pulcherrim," she said, with a smile, "and I were appointed umpire between these fair disputants, my task would be as difficult as that of Paris; but, like him, I suppose; I would finally decide in favor of the rose, the flower of Venus." So she stood, rapt in a glow of enthusiastic admiration, before a bush covered with blooms, some full blown, some half open. The leaves, folded like the spiral curves of a delicate shell, whose heart glowed with rosy fire, were gemmed with dew-drops, glittering in the first beams of the sun. 
               "My rose," said Zenaida, "is a veritable queen of diamonds this morning; so dazzling that my eyes are almost bewildered by her extreme brilliancy. I am sure 'Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.' I wish that I were as lovely as that sweet flower; but the days of fairy are gone by, and there is no one to grant my wish as Cinderella's godmother did hers. But if I must, perforce, be content with my own degree of physical comeliness, I can adorn my mind, my heart, with the sweetness of the rose, the modesty of the violet, the purity of the lily. Oh that my hand possessed the skill to perpetuate the glowing beauties of these flowers! My soul is haunted by their remembered loveliness long after their forms have perished, and my spirit longeth unutterably for them when their familiar, friendly faces no longer meet my eye." 
               While these thoughts were passing, she gathered a bunch of the freshest buds, and adding to them some jasmines, heliotropes, and geranium leaves, formed a small bouquet, which she presented to her father with her morning kiss. She then replenished her vases, fed her birds, and conned her lessons, which were dispatched more quickly than usual, that she might read the book presented by her father. 
               From the fairy-land of the poet's dream she was recalled, some days after, by the voice of Helen, whom she found preparing for an evening walk to the Manor. 
               "Zenaida," said Helen, "I wish you to go with me to Cabell Manor. Will you not?" 
               "I would rather track Endymion through the caves of ocean," she replied. "Cabell Manor will not compensate for the pleasures I resign." 
               "You will have ample time to read your book," said Helen. "You have been poring over it every leisure minute for some days, and I think you ought to be grateful to me for proposing so pleasant a walk, by way of variety." 
               "Well," replied Zenaida, "the walk will be delightful, and I will go, if you wish it, sissy; but-" and she paused, leaving the sentence unfinished. 
               "But what, Zenaida?" inquired Helen, smiling. 
               "You will see what I mean," she replied. 
               They followed the path we have designated, until they came to the lodge gate opening into the grounds of the Manor. 
               Zenaida, too much engrossed by the beauty of the scene before them to speak, except occasionally to give utterance to her delight in interjectional exclamations, was, for the time, forgetful of the stately grandeur of the Manor, and the impressive hauteur of Miss Annie. 
               The Manor was a grand old place, with its broad avenue of forest-trees, the branches of which met overhead, clasping each other in loving greeting, forming a vaulted roof like that of some vast old cathedral, above the emerald turf beneath. 
               At the extremity, through the dim, leafy vista, was seen the old mansion; no fancy modern house with more points than the compass, adorned with no huge humming-tops, or other useless appendages, but a substantial building, defying the rage of the elements, conveying to all an impression of durability, comfort, and unlimited hospitality. Under the auspices of former Cabells, and during the early years of the present owner's administration, the old hall had been thronged with guests; but now the unfrequent wheels suffered the grass to grow in the avenue, and the long dancing saloons and dining halls looked quite desolate, being less frequently called into requisition by their widowed mistress. The house was built on three sides of a square, with a long piazza running entirely round on the inner side, inclosing a pretty green plat, in the centre of which was a fountain. The water fell from an overflowing urn in the hands of a naiad, keeping the grass ever fresh and luxuriant by the falling spray. 
               Helen and Zenaida walked slowly, admiring the beauties here so lavishly displayed; but at length they reached their destination, ascended the broad flight of steps, rang the bell, and were admitted by a servant, who ushered them into the parlor, where they awaited the appearing of the lady of the Manor and her fair daughter. 
               Although Helen was not unaccustomed to the display of wealth, (for she had not always dwelt beneath the lowly roof which she now called by the endearing name of home,) yet her pulse throbbed, and she felt oppressed and saddened in spite of herself. 
               Zenaida, in the mean while, was noting everything with her eye, so quick to detect any deviation from the standard of true taste, which she had elevated; but nothing here met her eye which was not in harmony with the general character of the place. 
               The furniture was old and massive, black with age, and richly carved. Portraits of the Cabells of past generations adorned the walls. Zenaida amused herself tracing out imaginary scenes and incidents in their various histories. The folding doors between the rooms beyond, which were two in number, were thrown open, and the windows in the farthest room also, through which might be caught glimpses of waving trees and green grass. 
               Unbroken stillness reigned, and Zenaida was lost in a reverie, when she heard the sound of a closing door, then the rustle of a dress on the stairs, and the next moment Mrs. Cabell entered, followed by Miss Annie, who looked as if she thought this visit might have been dispensed with without dissatisfaction on her part. In her eyes it was unpardonable that people should live in cottages from necessity, and wear clothing less costly than her own. 
               Miss Annie was particularly unamiable this evening; for she was reclining at ease upon a sofa in her room, deeply absorbed in the intricate mazes of some thrilling romance, when the visitors were announced. 
               "Some ladies in the parlor, Miss Annie," said the servant girl who had admitted Helen and Zenaida. 
               "Who is it, Penelope?" inquired Miss Annie, without raising her eyes from her book. 
               "Mr. Morris's girls," replied Penelope. 
               "I shall not go down to see them," said Annie, decidedly, resuming her reading. 
               "Come, Annie," said her mother, as she passed her door, "are you ready?" 
               "I am not going down," replied Annie. "I could be ready in a minute if I chose, but I do not." 
               "But you must go," said Mrs. Cabell in her most authoritative manner; and Miss Annie most reluctantly laid aside her book, and followed her mother down stairs, where she appeared with the ungracious mien we have described. 
               Mrs. Cabell was a lady of noble presence, but her manners were free from that assumption of superiority which rendered Annie so unpopular. She advanced to meet Helen and Zenaida, saluted them with kindly warmth, expressed her pleasure at their coming, and endeavored to make them feel perfectly at their ease; but Annie received them coldly, and conversed in the most ceremonious manner. She talked to Zenaida of things of which she was ignorant, the knowledge of which would not have profited her much had she possessed it. 
               Mrs. Cabell at length proposed some music, by way of relieving the constraint under which they labored. Annie complied with her mother's request that she would play for them, with more cheerfulness than she had yet manifested; for although she looked upon these girls as insignificant children, yet she lost no opportunity to show off her superior accomplishments. 
               Before she sat down, she turned to Helen; "Miss Morris," she said, "will you not play first?" 
               "No," replied Helen, "I prefer to hear you." 
               "I am so out of practice," sighed Miss Annie aloud, while she mentally determined to play her most brilliant pieces, that she might rouse the envy of her young listeners. 
               She played skillfully, but the heart of Zenaida was not moved. It was merely a display of mechanical proficiency, and Zenaida loved the music which came from the heart and appealed to the heart. She loved music passionately, but she would have given expression to the passing emotions of her own soul, had she possessed the power to awaken the melodies slumbering in these keys. She would have been an improvisatrice, not an exponent of the thoughts and feelings of another. 
               This accomplishment had been neglected in the education of Helen and Zenaida, partly on account of the limited means of Mr. Morris, partly because he had deemed other studies of greater importance. Helen regretted it but little, but Zenaida mourned over this deficiency. Her father, seeing how her mind dwelt upon this, had offered to make any sacrifice to secure instruction for her; but she knew how heavily the tax would, fall upon him, and refused to accept the sacrifice. 
               Now the notes of the music, though not such as she would have awakened, revived this old yearning of her heart. Deeper and deeper grew the shadow upon her fair face; her heart was oppressed with the weight of its emotions, and when the music ceased and Mrs. Cabell proposed a walk through the garden, she rose quickly and prepared to follow her, for she always felt at home with nature. The trees, birds, and flowers, were dear friends, who never requited her love with coldness; who never, by want of sympathy, sealed her lips, that they should not give utterance to the thoughts of her heart. 
               The lady hostess led the way through the hall, along the piazza, where the naiad with her urn attracted the attention and elicited the admiration of Zenaida, and she could not forbear exclaiming- 
               "Oh, Mrs. Cabell, what a beautiful place for flowers! why are there none here? I would plant vines, and train them over the piazza, and have some water-lilies and all other kinds of flowers around the fountain. The spray would keep them so fresh." 
               "Ah, my dear," replied Mrs. Cabell, "the vines would bring all sorts of worms about the house, and the flowers, here in the plat, would be too much trouble. I have not as much patience as you, and I do not know enough about the cultivation of flowers to make them thrive under my care." 
               Zenaida was effectually silenced; for the idea about the worms was an objection which had never urged itself upon her consideration, and, to her, a home without flowers would have been as desolate and drear as a sky without stars. 
               The lady appeared wholly unconscious of the shock she had given to the little sensitive plant by her side, and continued her walk in a most complacent, comfortable frame of mind. 
               The garden, with her opinions about flowers, could not be one to please Zenaida; though one more utilitarian in theory, with an eye to the plenishing of the table, might have seen in it beauties more worthy of admiration than a world of flowers would possess in his or her estimation. 
               As they passed by one of the cabins, Mrs. Cabell called a little African, who was lurking behind a tree, peeping at the ladies as they passed. He came forth from his hiding place, grinning so as to show every tooth in his head, taking a very deliberate survey of the sisters, his eyes rolling with delight as they rested on Helen, as much as to say "Good Lordy, but you is purty!" 
               "Pompey," said his mistress, "I want you to climb the cherry trees and get us some cherries. You can climb, can't you?" 
               "Yes, ma'am," replied Pompey deliberately, "I can; but dere's mighty few cherries dar; for de birds is done eat 'em all up, mighty nigh." 
               "Black birds, I suppose," said the lady; "but come, let us see if we cannot find some." 
               Pompey proceeded under protest, and they soon arrived at the trees, which he climbed with the agility of a squirrel, showing conclusively that he had had considerable practice. 
               "Now, Pompey," said Mrs. Cabell, "my rule, when I send any of you boys up the cherry-tree, is to make you whistle while you gather; so that you cannot eat them as fast as they are pulled. Come, whistle." 
               "Could'nt do it ef I was gwine to die fur it," replied Pompey, puckering up his mouth and making an ineffectual attempt to whistle, which, ended in a laugh, during which he choked with the seed of a cherry which he had surreptitiously slipped into his mouth. He succeeded better than he had expected, for he filled the little basket which Mrs. Cabell had given him. The lady handed it to Zenaida, expressing her regret that there were so few. Zenaida took them, thanked her, and said "How pretty!" 
               Her remark "how pretty" reached the ear of Miss Annie, who, with contemptuous smile and curling lip, exclaimed- 
               "What a curious creature you are! Why did you not say 'how good?' I believe you value nothing unless it accords with your ideas of beauty." 
               "I may be a 'curious creature,' Miss Cabell," replied Zenaida, emphasizing Miss Annie's words, "but I think it perfectly fectly natural to admire all the works of God, and I see in these little cherries, which he has dyed with this beautiful glow, the impress of his hand, as clearly as in the loftiest tree or most majestic river." 
               The transient feeling of indignation which had been roused by Miss Annie's tone and look, more than by her words, flushed her usually pale cheek with a bright color, (which looked as if it might have been given her by the cherries as a reward for her championship,) and lent to her step and air a haughty dignity which Miss Cabell herself might have envied. 
               Mrs. Cabell noted all, but said nothing then. She was interested in this child, who, though at present occupying a humble position in society, gave evidence of a degree of refinement, a keenness of susceptibility, rare among those most highly favored by fortune. She resolved to see more of her, and with this in view invited the sisters to spend the evening, or stay all night with her. 
               They declined, Helen urging as her plea that she was housekeeper, and must be at home to have supper prepared for her father. Zenaida had seen enough of Miss Annie to suffice for that time, and had no desire to prolong her visit. She bowed haughtily her adieu to Annie, but extended her hand to Mrs. Cabell, who took it, drawing her close to her and imprinting a kiss upon her fair brow. At this unlooked-for kindness, the blood mantled all over her cheek and brow, her eyes filled with tears, which her pride would not permit to fall before the eyes of Annie, as she murmured, "My mother used to kiss me there; I have no mother now." 
               Mrs. Cabell was much affected at this show of uncontrollable trollable emotion, which she saw that Zenaida vainly endeavored to conceal; she pressed her hand, and cordially invited her to come often to see her. 
               "You love to walk," she said, "and the path from your house to the Manor is very tempting. I am going to have a visit from some young relatives of mine. You must come to see them." 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               "HELEN," exclaimed Zenaida, abruptly, as they were walking homeward, "you now see why I did not want to go to the Manor. That Annie Cabell called me a 'curious creature,' and eyed me with her contemptuous smile, as if I were an animal in a menagerie, set upon exhibition for her especial delectation and amusement; but our name is as good as hers, our blood as pure and free from all stain or reproach. To be sure, she lives at Cabell Manor, while we are dwellers in Willowbrook Cottage, and she is surrounded by those painted semblances of her departed ancestors; but we have had as many honorable names before us, though we are not fortunate enough to possess their faces on canvas." 
               "Now, little sis," responded Helen, laughing, "you are expending entirely too much of your eloquent indignation upon Miss Cabell. Reserve it for some more worthy object. Do not permit her rudeness to raise the temperature of your usually equable feelings." 
               The quiet beauty of the evening soothed the disturbed feelings of Zenaida. In the contemplation of the loveliness around her she forgot Miss Annie, and when they reached the summit of the hill on their return, no unpleasant thought or feeling marred the harmony of her spirit. 
               From this eminence they had a fine view of the summer sunset and of the landscape, partly in deep shadow, partly illumined by the last flashes from the jewelled crown of the departing king, who never ceases from his appointed work, disappearing from one hemisphere to rise in undiminished glory upon another. 
               "The last golden arrows from the day-god's quiver are about to be spent, but they fall more harmless on me than they did on the children of Niobe, who all perished by a coup de soleil," soliloquized Zenaida, as she threw off her bonnet and seated herself upon a large rock. 
               "Helen," she exclaimed, after a pause, during which she had contemplated the earth and sky in silence, "do you believe the sunsets of Italy are more gorgeous than this? Look at those clouds. Some a deep rich purple, fringed with gold; some a deep crimson, with silver lacings, like the trappings of a throne, so brilliant that the light is reflected with a bright-rose glow upon the clouds above the opposite horizon; and all these colors are harmoniously arranged as only the great Painter of heaven can arrange them." 
               "Sometimes I think," she continued, "that I would give anything I possess even in my dreams to roam through the vast galleries of paintings, the works of the old masters, the boast of the Old World, the envy of the New, to fill my soul to repletion with the images of beauty they portray; but then I think that I have the privilege of beholding, every day that I live, pictures in the great gallery of Nature, (who holds her exhibitions without money and without price,) and these pictures are as far above the works of man as the heavens are above the earth, one set being painted by the creature, the other by the Creator. And then, too, the pictures in my collection are never the same when I look twice upon them, but change even while I gaze; so that I am kept in a state of perpetual admiration at the wondrous skill of the great Artist." 
               She turned, as she concluded, to see why she elicited no response from Helen; but she was nowhere visible. After calling to Zenaida that it was nearly dark, she had left her so absorbed in the thoughts to which she was giving expression that she did not see or hear that she was gone. 
               "Well," said Zenaida, stooping to pick up her bonnet, "she has left me very unceremoniously, and I have been talking to the winds, as many wise people have done before me. I hope they have not failed to derive instruction from my audible soliloquy." 
               At that instant, remembering a piece she had commenced to read before going to the Manor, she darted down the hill, and soon traversed the space that intervened between it and the cottage. 
               As she entered the gate, her pet dog, a fine specimen of the Newfoundland breed, bounded to meet her, nearly overwhelming her with his caresses. He was a noble-looking animal; his face expressive of the deepest affection for his young mistress, who patted him gently on the head, smoothing his long silky hair, and talking all the while as she would have, done to a rational being; but the dog Beppo, by his demeanor, showed that he was sufficiently rational to appreciate her caresses, if he could not understand the words by which he was addressed. 
               "Beppo," she said, "do you love me?" 
               He answered by licking her hands, and clasping her feet affectionately with his big paws, glancing up at her with his great loving brown eyes. 
               He followed her to the door, where she took her seat upon the step, attracted irresistibly by the perfume of the flowers which hung round on all sides. The birds were twittering in their nests, preparatory to retiring for the night. 
               After looking up at her face, as if to read there the thoughts and intents of her heart, Beppo composed himself to rest at the feet of Zenaida; for he saw that she had played enough with him, and that he must content himself with the measure of attention which had already been bestowed on him. 
               As Zenaida sat there, she again reverted to the evening she had just passed, and again forgetting the wise injunction of Helen, her indignation rose against Miss Annie. But she recollected that she was the only child of wealthy parents, that she had been indulged in every whim, and that, by this injudicious treatment, her overbearing manners had been fostered, until it was evident that even her mother perceived how disagreeable it rendered her, particularly to those whom she considered beneath her in wealth and social position, to whom she exhibited herself in her true colors, not thinking it necessary that she should inconvenience herself, even in the slightest degree, to oblige them, or render herself charming in their sight. 
                
               "I wish," said Zenaida, "that she would get married, and go away from Cabell Manor; for I am sure that the place would be much more attractive without her presence. She stirs up all the latent antagonism of my nature. But," she continued, "I am selfish; for she is her mother's only child, and however obnoxious she may be to me, of course she is dear to her mother's heart, and not without much sorrow could that mother part with her." 
               Just then she heard a footstep behind her, and, turning, beheld Aunt Rebecca, or "black mammy," as Zenaida called her. The sable lady was worthy of her name, which sounds as if it should be the cognomen of a princess; and Aunt Rebecca was as majestic in her figure and deportment as if her African ancestors had been all of royal blood. Perhaps they were; but on this point no one was competent to pronounce a decision, as the old dame had no genealogical tree, the fame of her progenitors being perpetuated by oral tradition only. 
               Zenaida had always looked with great respect upon her black mammy, who loved her almost to idolatry, and also felt privileged to exercise her authority, which she held by right of seniority, when she saw "the child" do anything which she thought ought not to be done. 
               "Laws-a-mercy!" she began, "why, honey, what you down thar in the dirt fur, settin' on that ole step wid that clean white coat on? That the way you show your black mammy's raisin'? Git up dis blessid minnit, and come into de porch. And your har all down, an' supper so nigh ready! Why, bless the Lord, chile, people 'ud think I didn't know nothink, to see you so furgitful of what's 'comin' to a young lady!" 
                
               "Never mind, mammy," said Zenaida in a coaxing tone, placing her hand over Aunty's mouth; "don't scold any more. I was going to comb my hair before supper, and I have not soiled my dress; so there's a good mammy." 
               "Well, chile," said mammy, "I don't mean to be cross. You know dat, honey, an' you know, too, how to git round me with your smooth tongue an' soft ways, that you does. God bless de chile! I lub her like she war my own; I don't mind if my skin ar' black, an' this poor darlin' widout any mudder. Miss Elsie, your mudder, honey, had just the same way wid her when she talked, an' the' same look out'n her eyes, as you'se got. Bless God!" said mammy fervently, "but she war a sweet thing w'en ole massa come an' took her from home." 
               "Tell me about my mother, mammy," said Zenaida. 
               "Well," replied mammy, "that picter you war round your neck will tell you what she looked like, only 'tisn't half so purty. Your gran'pa, my ole massa, Col. Rutledge, loved her better'n anythink in this worl', an' he wouldn't a bin willin' fur her to marry anybody; but he let your pa have her, 'cause he was so good, an' Miss Elsie set her heart on him. Your gran'pa used to live mighty grand, an' when he died he left nothink to Miss Elsie 'ceptin' me an' what he gave her when she war married; an' massa Morris is so good; he's jist too good to git along in this worl', an' since Miss Elsie died, he's never bin like the same." 
               "Did you say I looked like my mother, mammy?" said Zenaida. 
               "Like as two peas, chile, only her cheeks war rosier than your'n; but you'll be jist like her when you is done growin' an' readin'," and with this prophecy, Aunt Rebecca retired. 
               That night Zenaida gazed long upon the miniature likeness of her mother, which she always wore next her heart; which she often dwelt upon, in contemplation, until to her excited fancy the lifeless shadow was endowed with animation-the eyes beamed upon her with love unutterable, and the lips smiled with sweetness unrivaled by any mortal lips that she had ever seen. Then the cry would come from her loving heart- 
               "Mother, my mother! would that I could but hear the words that would issue from those lips, that my heart might be warmed by the love-light in those eyes; but, alas the grass grows green above thy grave, and from this, even, mountains and rivers divide me, though oft, in spirit, I kneel beside it. When the winds howl and shriek round my chamber, like the wail of the lost, and when the pitiless rain descends in torrents, I weep that the form of which this, though beautiful, is but an imperfect image the lovely casket which enshrined a soul more lovely-should be exposed to the rage of the merciless elements. But my mother was good, and she is in heaven." 
               These thoughts thronged her waking hours, and in her dreams that night she saw the angel-face of her mother bending to her from a bright cloud, and stretching out her arms as if to clasp her in her embrace, and raise her pure young soul above the contaminating influences of earth, placing it in the bright world of which she was an inhabitant, where it would be safe forever. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               ONE evening Zenaida sat toiling over her Latin lesson, and some other studies in which she was particularly interested, until Helen reproved her for her assiduity. 
               "Zenaida," she said, "do lay aside your books, and run out to exercise, and breathe some fresh air." 
               "That's right, Miss Helen," joined in black mammy, "make her go; she'll look for all the worl' like a 'tater sprout as is bin raised in a dark cellar." 
               "I am nearly through, Helen," replied Zenaida; "this ode is so pretty! But I intended to hunt for some wild flowers this very evening, and I will go." 
               "I would go with you," said Helen, "but I have been running about all day, and am now weary." 
               "Well," said Zenaida, as she started forth, "I'll take Beppo." 
               "He is faithful as Ulysses' old Argus," she murmured, stroking his head, "and brave as the Neman lion; a first-rate protector, equal to the one that guarded the footsteps of the heavenly Una. Come, Beppo!" 
               The fresh air which stirred the leaves, and shook out the sweet odors from the flower-bells which clustered in such luxuriant profusion around the cottage, came gratefully and with refreshing power to her weary, languid frame. She drew a long, deep breath; her eye brightened with pleasure as it rested upon the landscape, so familiar yet always presenting for her admiration something before unobserved. 
                
               With an accelerated step she walked along the side of the "bonnie burnie" we have before observed, taking the path opposite the one leading to the Manor. A short distance from the cottage the bed of the stream became rocky and irregular, so that it was diversified by a succession of miniature cascades. The water above was so clear that the little fishes could be seen darting about their silver sides gleaming in the sunlight. 
               The cascades this evening were beautiful in their sparkling freshness to the eyes of Zenaida, so long intent upon her books. The waters danced, and flashed with dazzling brilliance in the rays of the evening sun; the tiny wavelets were crested with snow-white foam, from fretting against the jagged edges of the rocks. A few steps farther, and quiet again reigned, for here the waters flowed with calm unrippled surface, save where they eddied in a dark pool, under shelter of the overhanging branches of a huge old sycamore. 
               Zenaida paused here awhile to watch the gambols of Beppo, who plunged into the deepest place, then emerged in a dripping condition, and giving himself a hearty shake, appeared anxious to bestow some caresses on his mistress, who declined the intended honor as gently as possible, for fear of wounding the sensitive feelings of her wet, affectionate playmate. 
               She then turned into a grassy lane, searching, as she went, the fence-corners, for any stray wild-flowers that might be nestling there; but the spring violets, anemones, and blue forget-me-nots no longer reared their delicate heads. The lane on each side was adorned with a hedge of elder, which flower, common as it is and despised by many, Zenaida could not sufficiently admire. She now gathered some of its rich blooms, which contrasted prettily with the clusters of bright rose-colored flowers which she had culled before; at first she decided that the flower in full bloom was prettiest, as it looked like a rich lace-work; then spying a cluster of the buds not quite open, she awarded to them the palm of superior loveliness, as they so nearly resembled a network of pearls. But having now her hands full, she was content to examine the specimens already collected, and to suffer those ungathered to remain until some other time. 
               This road led to Grove Church, where Zenaida soon arrived. As its name indicated, the church was situated in the midst of a beautiful grove. It was a pretty, modest building, with no pretension to architectural display. The yard was inclosed with a neat fence, the grass fresh and luxuriant; one portion of it was devoted to the dead, who in this calm, secluded spot, slept undisturbed after the fitful fever of life. There were not many inhabitants in this small city of the silent; but even here some, were neglected or forgotten, while others were watched over by tender, loving, eyes, and tended by kind hands. The branches of the graceful weeping-willow hung over some, swaying with every passing breeze; roses glowed brightly, shedding a mocking hue of life around the resting-place of death. Ivy grew over the tombs of others, clinging and twining its tendrils closely, as the hearts of the living still clung to the cold forms resting beneath, flourishing more greenly around decay. 
               To Zenaida this place was a favorite resort; for she was free from all superstitious fears in connection with it, and its sad, tender beauty charmed her pensive heart. She now seated herself under one of the willows, and commenced assorting her flowers; but the frail things were already withered and drooping, like the delicate human buds that pine and fade when torn from the parent stem. So Zenaida twined them into a garland, which she placed upon the grave Of a young girl, of whose purity the white blossoms were a fit emblem, whose early death was typified by the wilted buds which so lately were rejoicing in loveliness beneath the genial influences of the dews and sunshine of heaven. 
               She had arranged her garland, and was gazing with sad heart upon a mound where no flowers bloomed, when she perceived that she was not the only one who had been lured thither by the quiet stillness of the spot. 
               An elderly gentleman of benign aspect, whose prematurely silvered hair gave an air of venerableness to his still erect and vigorous frame, had been seated at a little distance. He had noticed Zenaida when she first made her appearance; had laid aside the book with which he had been occupied before she came, and had been watching her, so intent upon her occupation that she was not aware of his presence until the rustling of his footsteps announced his approach. As he came forward Zenaida started, and turned as if to go; but a glance at his face reassured her, and she resumed her seat, her curiosity being somewhat excited to ascertain who he was; for she saw that he was to her a stranger. 
               He bowed in a pleasant, kindly manner; said he hoped he had not startled her by his unannounced and unlooked-for appearing. "I am the newly-elected minister of this pretty church, and truly may I say, 'My lot is cast in a pleasant place, in the green pastures, and beside the still waters.' My name is Thornley." 
               Upon receiving this gratuitous piece of information, Zenaida took a very deliberate survey of Mr. Thornley, scrutinizing his appearance as if to ascertain thereby "what manner of man" he was, recollecting her theory of attraction and repulsion, and hoping he might stand the test of her intuitive perception. 
               He observed her as closely, and smiled as he marked the look she cast upon him, at first full of mistrust and suspicion, but gradually giving place to a more benignant expression, until her face assumed its natural and habitual sweetness. Reassured by this favorable result, Mr. Thornley ventured to ask some questions. 
               "My child," said he, "have you a friend or relative in this sweet burial-ground? It is one of the most beautiful places I ever saw; almost enough to make one in love with death to look upon it." 
               "No," she replied, "I have no kindred dust mingling with this soil. My mother is dead, but she is buried far away, and I have not even the mournful consolation of tending her grave." 
               As she spoke, her eyes filled with tears and her voice quivered with emotion. A look of intense sadness spread over her face, which appealed at once to the ever-active sympathies and kindly heart of the good minister, who from the first had been interested by her appearance and occupation. 
               "My poor child," he exclaimed, "I indeed pity one who, at your tender age, is deprived of the watchful guardianship of a mother's love." 
               "I am not deprived of it," said Zenaida. "My mother is one of God's holy angels, and she watches over me from heaven. She often comes in dreams, and with loving words tells me of her bright home." 
               Mr. Thornley gazed at her inquisitively; but she spoke in deep earnestness, and he felt convinced that she implicitly believed in the reality of her angel-mother's ministrations. 
               "That belief, my child," he replied, "is a most happy one. But you have not yet told me your name or place of residence; I suppose you are one of my flock." 
               "My name," she responded, "is Zenaida Morris, and I live at Willowbrook Cottage, about a mile from here, up the burn-side." 
               "Zenaida," repeated Mr. Thornley; "that is a strange name. Where did you get it? I never heard it before." 
               "I am the Zenaida dove," she replied, "named from the plaintive mournfulness of my cry when I was an infant. My mother called me so in sport at first, but Zenaida was finally adopted as my name." 
               "Well, Zenaida," said Mr. Thornley, "I hope we will be good friends. You must come to the Parsonage and see Mrs. Thornley and the children." 
               "I will," replied Zenaida. "But it is getting late, and I must bid you good evening, as I have no company home but my dog." 
               She bowed, and, calling Beppo, was soon out of sight behind a curve in the winding lane. 
               "This Mr. Thornley," she said, "I think I shall like. He has a pleasant countenance, and is more genial in his manners than some ministers I have seen, who are positively forbidding on account of their long-facedness and the doleful tenor of their conversation. The sun of righteousness radiates both light and warmth, vitalizing the dormant seeds of truth and goodness which are implanted in our hearts causing them to grow and blossom, beautifying the otherwise barren wilderness of life. Would that more of the followers of their great Leader would emulate the example given them; but instead of bringing to light and life the principles of good, many are as moral upas-trees, under whose deadly shadow no good can flourish." 
               With these thoughts she arrived at home, where she related to her father and Helen her accidental meeting with Mr. Thornley, and her favorable first impression in regard to him. 
               "Helen," she said, "we must call at the Parsonage. Will you go?" 
               "Certainly," replied Helen; "with the greatest pleasure." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               A SHORT time after this, the relatives, of whom Mrs. Cabell had spoken, arrived, bringing with them a young gentleman, who, having heard of Miss Annie and her broad acres, wished to satisfy himself of the truth of these reports. 
               As he came stamped with the impress of fashion's seal, (which often renders current the counterfeit instead of the genuine coin with those who judge superficially from outward appearance only, and do not sound to see if it has the ring of the true metal,) Miss Annie received him graciously, and her lip, which was curled with contempt for many, was wreathed with smiles for him. 
               But in introducing Mr. Lawrence Ridgely, we have lost sight of the niece and nephew of Mrs. Cabell, Miss Florida Bernard and her brother Arthur. 
               Miss Bernard, who was the senior of her cousin Annie by several years, was tall and elegant in person, lofty in mien. Her hair was dark as starless midnight, her eyes of the same ebon hue, her teeth of unsurpassed whiteness. Her dress was as faultless as the art of the most skillful modiste, combined with her own exquisite taste, could make it. She was suave in her manners to all, as one conscious of her own high position, not fearing to be contaminated if she condescended to stoop to those occupying a station less lofty. Her mind, cultivated and appreciative to a high degree, was quick to discern in others thoughts and feelings accordant with her own. Pride of birth, of station, was her inheritance, and had been strengthened and fostered by her education and associations. 
               Her brother Arthur was yet a student preparing for the practice of the law, the profession of his selection. He was a generous, impulsive, high-spirited youth, not endowed with talents of the highest order, but still above mediocrity; not destined to carve his name indelibly upon the age, but capable and determined to become an honorable and useful member of society. 
               In the room of Miss Annie, which is situated in the second story, overlooking the avenue, we will find that young lady and Miss Bernard on the morning after the advent of the latter. 
               Both of the young ladies are seated in large easy chairs; that of Miss Bernard being placed by the open window, from which she can see the beautiful lawn and the luxuriant fields beyond, one a meadow set with clover, now in full bloom. Through them ran the labyrinthine mazes of the stream, its windings marked by the trees which fringed its borders, through which Miss Bernard caught occasional glimpses of the water, shining like molten silver in the morning sunlight. A herd of fine cows pastured here, and, scattered about in the clover, or drinking in the streamlet, heightened the picturesque beauty of the scene. The huge old oaks waved their branches and rustled their leaves against the window; the breeze came in, laden with the perfume of the clover-blooms, and, playing coquettishly around the stately form of Florida, brought a deeper color to her cheek and brighter lustre to her large dark eyes. 
               "What a lovely view you have from your window here, Cousin Annie!" she at last exclaimed. "What a contrast it presents to the view from my window in the city, from which I so lately gazed as the captive from his prison window, sighing that I was pent up, with walls on every side! Our little grass-plats, which are small at best, are but poor substitutes for this extensive lawn, with its wide-spreading oaks, and these undulating fields with their promises of plenty." 
               "Yes," replied Miss Annie, indolently, "I suppose it must be pretty, as every one thinks so; but give me the gayeties of the city, the throng of richly-dressed people, the bustle and animation, the balls, parties, concerts, and fashionable acquaintances. To be immured in this dull country place, where you see nothing but trees and grass, and hear nothing but the song of birds, the lowing of cows, and the tinkling of sheep-bells; where we go only to the stupid meetings at Grove Church, while others are enjoying the pleasures of life in the city, or at different watering-places, is a thraldom to which I submit with little patience. But mother is so wedded to this place; she thinks it such fine amusement to look at lambs, pigs, ducks, and turkeys; she is so interested in making premium butter and cheese, in superintending the farm operations generally-that I despair of ever being able to persuade her to leave this odious place and go to the city." 
               "Aunt Cabell is right," replied Florida; "there is more genuine pleasure in these homely scenes and occupations than in the gay pleasures for which you long, the pictures of which, in anticipation, dazzle you with their brilliant coloring. I have drunk deeply of all these so-called fountains of pleasure, and I can assure you that, though the cup when first tasted is sweet, the dregs are bitter. The mind and, heart, wearied with the incessant whirling of the maelstrom of society, turn with relief to scenes like these, where, if the pleasures are less exciting, they leave behind a more durable and agreeable impression. But let us waive this discussion for the present. Come, cousin mine, give me some information concerning the neighbors I am likely to meet during my sojourn at Cabell Manor." 
               "The task you impose is not very difficult," replied Annie. "There are the Bainbridges, old acquaintances of mother's, who are our nearest neighbors. They have recently purchased Maplehurst, a beautiful estate near us. They will certainly call on you. Then, too, the village is only a few miles distant, and there are several presentable families there, and some of the most eligible country beaux-Elliston Hunter, Donald Hamilton, Percy Martin, and sundry others; but they will all be shy of you, a city belle, whose proud pre-eminence they will not dare to question." 
               "But," said Florida, "have you no others worthy of being placed on our list? Your neighborhood must be very sparsely settled." 
               "There is a new minister just installed at the Grove Parsonage; but I know nothing of him or his family, and I do not believe I will call on them, as I have an inveterate antipathy to ministers' wives and children, who are always worse than the children of any other class of men." 
               "That is curious doctrine, Annie," laughed Florida, amused at the earnestness of her cousin. "Upon what grounds do you found your belief?" 
               "It is a self-evident proposition," replied Annie. 
               Just then Mrs. Cabell entered. 
               "Aunt," said Florida, "Annie has been giving me a list of your neighbors; and I am really surprised to hear that there is only one family near you which you claim friendship, the Bainbridges." 
               "Annie forgot the Morris family," replied Mrs. Cabell. 
               "I never dreamed of naming them, mamma," replied Miss Annie, with the old look of scorn. "They are not in our sphere, and in my opinion are far from being desirable acquaintances." 
                
               "I am grieved to hear you speak in this unkind manner, my daughter," said Mrs. Cabell; "for you are guilty of gross injustice to a gentleman who is in every respect meritorious and above reproach, and to his daughters, who are such that any parent might be proud of them. The beauty and grace of Helen, the penetrating intelligence and keen susceptibility of Zenaida, commend them to the kind consideration of every one who is capable of appreciating their excellence." 
               "Your advocacy of their cause, Aunt Cabell," said Florida, "has already enlisted me in their favor, and I hope soon to become acquainted with these young ladies who have the power to enlist you as their champion, and to call forth such encomiums from you, who have a holy horror of idle words." 
               "Your curiosity shall be gratified," replied Aunt Cabell, smiling, "for they are our nearest neighbors; but the girls are young, and shrink from all my advances so sensitively that I scarcely know what plan to adopt to overcome their pride, for such it is. Their father, though of good family and stainless character, is poor, and the trial of going among those who despise them because not decked in all the paraphernalia of wealth, is too severe for the sensitive, undisciplined hearts of Helen and Zenaida; so they prefer to isolate themselves-to draw upon their own resources for amusement." 
               "This account of them but increases my interest," said Florida. "But how shall I proceed? Shall I take these otherwise inaccessible damsels by storm in their own castle, or wait till, as in etiquette bound, they call upon me?" 
               "Annie wounded the feelings of the youngest, Zenaida, the last time she was here, and I fear it will be long ere she comes again; but Helen will call. Annie," she said, turning to her daughter authoritatively, "you must give Florida a party, and remember, upon pain of my serious displeasure, that the Morris girls are not to be omitted." 
               So saying, she left the room. Annie knew that it would be useless to remonstrate, for her mother's fiat had gone forth, and when the old lady was roused, as on the present occasion, she knew her decrees to be immutable as those of the Medes and Persians. 
               "How provoking!" she exclaimed, as soon as the rustle of her mother dress could no longer be heard. "Mother's head is full of kinks and crotchets. She is always doing the things she ought not to do; but I am compelled to submit," she said, angrily biting her lips and knitting her brows. 
               "What a pity!" was Florida's mental comment, "that the mother should so far excel her daughter in all noble qualities. Poor Annie! this uncontrolled pride and anger of hers will cost her some severe trials yet." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE next Sabbath being a fine, clear day, the Cabells, accompanied by Miss Bernard, and Arthur, and Mr. Ridgely, made their appearance at Grove Church, to wait upon the ministry of Mr. Thornley. 
               Miss Annie was willing to undergo the infliction of the "stupid meeting" for the sake of appearing before the admiring eyes of the country-folk escorted by a cavalier so elegant, so unexceptionable in dress, manner's and appearance, as Mr. Ridgely. Their entrance created quite a stir in this quiet place, for all had heard of the arrival of the strangers, and were anxious to obtain a glimpse of them. 
               "Hem!" said Miss Annie, as she caught the backward glances of many which were cast upon their party; "I think it probable that the services of a surgeon will be called into requisition to set the neck-bones of some of these people, dislocated by their sudden motions in turning to look at us." 
               The congregation had scarcely subsided into its former quiet, when a rustle of silks announced a new arrival. This time it was the Bainbridge family, consisting of the father and mother, one son, and three daughters. The Misses Beatrice and Alice were fine-looking girls. Alice, the younger of the two, was fair and pretty, modest and gentle in appearance, with little force of character; Beatrice's complexion was fair also, but her hair and eyes, were dark: she was dressed very elaborately, and looked as if she had been rehearsing attitudes for the sake of producing a sensation. The other daughter was a charming little fairy of four summers. 
               The young gentleman, Mr. Hamilton Bainbridge, deserved more than passing notice. He entered the lowly church with a sublime air, as if conscious that he was conferring the most inestimable of all blessings upon the poor benighted denizens of that out-of-the-world place, by permitting them to behold the light of his countenance-the said countenance embellished with an incipient mustache, which he apparently regarded with great affection, as he stroked it often with tender care. His hair was long, flowing ing down upon his shoulders in ringlets, which he thought were the perfect model of grace and beauty. His hands, which were small, and soft and white as a lady's, were inclosed in gloves so tight that he could with difficulty grasp the little gold-headed cane which he carried. His pantaloons were so tight that he must have followed a fashion which prevailed centuries ago, that of having garments sewed up after they were put on. Lastly, his feet, which were naturally small, were encased in the most exquisite little gaiters, so tight that the pain must have been excruciating; but Hamilton would have suffered martyrdom for the sake of that which he considered genteel and elegant. 
               As he passed down the aisle, he glanced round with an expression of pity mingled with contempt for these good people whom he denominated "outsiders." 
               This expression change as soon as his eye fell upon Mrs. Cabell's party. The elegance of Miss Bernard at once arrested his attention, and the most rigid scrutiny of her dress failed to detect the slightest deviation from the established rules of his all-potent lawgiver, Fashion. Once, as he turned his eyes from Miss Bernard, the beautiful face of Helen Morris arrested them. 
               "What a deucedly pretty girl that is!" he said mentally. "I wonder who she is? Nobody, though, I presume, for there is no style about her dress. It is shockingly simple. What horrid taste some people have! That girl by her would be pretty if she had a little more life about her; her eyes are magnificent. But that tall lady is the one for me. It is evident that she has not rusticated long enough to rub the polish of the city off." 
                
               With this reflection, he turned from the contemplation of Helen and Zenaida, as if he thought he was wasting time, and renewed his observation of Florida, who sat proudly unconscious, or if conscious, wholly indifferent to his admiring gaze. Occasionally he bestowed a glance upon Mr. Thornley, as if to say that he thought his performances decidedly tedious. 
               "Going to church," he said, "would bore him to death, if it were not for the pretty girls whom he saw there." 
               This fastidious youth had traveled extensively in Europe-had lounged on the Boulevards of Paris-had smoked a meerschaum in Germany-had floated over the moonlit waves of the Adriatic in a gondola-had drunk wine in France and beer in England-had climbed the Alps, and tried to read "Childe Harold", on the Rhine. From these travels he returned with a few phrases of bad French and worse German, some packages of kid gloves and perfumery, and the delicate mustache of which we have spoken-with a great reverence for king's, lords, and ladies, and a most supreme contempt for the vulgar republicanism of his own country. Everything American he pronounced "plebeian," and no place in his own land did he think worthy of being looked upon by his eyes, which had beheld the wonders of aristocratic Europe. 
               The sermon of Mr. Thornley was eloquent and impressive. He was endowed, in an eminent degree, with the gift of language, the words flowing from his lips without apparent effort. His theme, "The love of God manifest in redemption," was calculated to call forth the devotional emotions of the soul, and he was so absorbed in this theme, so earnest and full of deep feeling, that many said "It is good for us to be here." 
               Zenaida's favorable impression in regard to him was strengthened and indorsed by the approbation of her father and many others. 
               After the services were concluded, the people assembled in the yard to exchange greetings and indulge in friendly conversation. Some strolled off into the corner appropriated to the dead, who were dearer to them than any living. 
               The Cabells and Bainbridges met, and Mr. and Miss Bernard and Mr. Ridgely were duly presented to the family from Maplehurst. Mr. Hamilton Bainbridge immediately assumed his most fascinating manner, bowing to Florida with a grace and dexterity which could only have been acquired by long practice, flattering himself that the heart of Miss Bernard could not possibly be proof against his many attractions; but she, who in her experience of city life had seen many similar specimens, honored him with slight and passing notice. 
               "Aunt," she said, turning to Mrs. Cabell, "I have been thinking of your favorites, the Morrises, and wish you to point them out to me." 
               Helen and Zenaida were passing through the gate with their father, homeward bound. Mrs. Cabell called them back, and they reluctantly obeyed the summons. 
               "I wonder," said Zenaida, with an expression of dissatisfaction, "why Mrs. Cabell, surrounded as she is by her friends and relatives, has chosen to bring us forward. I am sure I would rather go home than be compelled to run the gauntlet of all those curious eyes." 
                
               But the lady greeted them most cordially. "My dears," said she, "I have called you back to give you an introduction to my niece, with whom, I am confident, you will be much pleased." 
               Florida was all affability-expressed much pleasure at seeing them of whom she had heard Aunt Cabell speak so favorably. 
               "You must call on Florida," said Mrs. Cabell; "I desire that you become friends. Will you not come?" 
               Helen replied affirmatively. Zenaida said nothing; but her looks were more eloquent than words. She glanced at Miss Annie, who had acknowledged their presence by a slight bow, colored at the recollection of her last visit, then drawing herself up to her full height, compressed her lips with unusual firmness. 
               As they walked home, she was eloquent in praise of the sermon of Mr. Thornley; the beauty and elegance of Miss Bernard. Helen was silent; for while Zenaida had been bestowing her regards on Florida, Helen had caught a glimpse of Arthur, who was looking intently at herself with undisguised admiration. 
               "Could he be Miss Bernard's brother?" she asked herself. "There is a striking resemblance between them. What beautiful, eloquent black eyes he has! I wonder what he thought of me?" 
               Such was the tenor of Helen's thoughts, and the blush which dyed her cheek as she, musing, said, "I wonder what he thought of me!" testified that the solution of her query was satisfactory. 
               "Honey," said Aunt Rebecca to Zenaida, after she had reached home, "who war that young man wid all them long curls danglin' round his face, an' that fuzz on his upper' lip, that looked fur all the world like cat hars? If I were his mammy, I'd eider put petticoats on him, or else cut off his har; fur he looks jist like a doll-baby. I vow to goodness! I never seed sich a lookin' whipper-snapper in all my born days. Hope he won't make a pint a goin' to our meetin' always, fur he 'stracts my 'tention from the preachin'. Who was it, chile?" 
               "I believe it was young Mr. Bainbridge," replied Zenaida. "He came with the family." 
               "Now, honey, mind me," said mammy, "don't you go an' fall in love wid that painted-faced, long-hared young man." 
               "Never fear, mammy, I am perfectly safe," replied Zenaida. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               HELEN, according to promise, called upon Miss Bernard, who received her with the same graciousness of manner which had distinguished her bearing on the occasion of their first meeting. Florida was charmed with the modest beauty and sweet diffidence of Helen, so different from the assurance and independence of many young ladies of her age. 
               Arthur, from his seat under one of the trees, had watched the approach of Helen. He recognized her immediately, for her image was so forcibly impressed upon his memory that he had no doubt as to her identity. He waited until she had entered the house, and then going in as if by accident through the back door, he availed himself of the first favorable opportunity to present himself before his sister. He started with assumed alarm on beholding Helen, and turned as if to leave the room, very fearful that his sister would permit him to do so without noticing his entrance; but she called him, and gave the much-desired introduction to Helen. 
               The fair girl blushed as she met the gaze of those beautiful eyes, bent upon her with the same look of admiration which she had seen in them at the church. Arthur thought the blush an additional charm, and wished that he could devise some plan to call it forth again; but Helen had now recovered her equanimity, and continued her conversation with his sister, unembarrassed by his presence. 
               Arthur ventured a few remarks, to which she replied with graceful sweetness; then, though he would willingly have lingered indefinitely within sound of her voice, he rose, and telling Florida that he was going on a voyage of discovery, bowed and left the room, inwardly congratulating himself upon his unsuspected stratagem. 
               Helen soon after left, and had proceeded homeward as far as the Lodge, when, hearing approaching footsteps, she turned hastily and beheld Arthur Bernard, who had loitered about the gate, looking for her coming, and now followed her. He quickened his pace when he saw that she had discovered him, and coming up to her, said- 
               "Pardon me, Miss Morris; I hope I have not alarmed you by my sudden appearance. My apology must be that I saw you passing unattended, and thought I would offer my services vices as your escort home, if you would be so kind as to allow me the privilege." 
               "I am much obliged to you," replied Helen; "but you need not have troubled yourself on my account. I am so accustomed to this path, so perfectly familiar with every tree, bush, and rock along its course, that I do not fear to traverse it at any hour." 
               "I assure you, Miss Morris," he replied eagerly, "I take no trouble, but, on the contrary, you afford me the greatest pleasure by allowing me to accompany you." 
               Helen thought the distance had never seemed so short, and she felt it very delightful to be assisted by careful hands over the little unevennesses of the ground, over which, on ordinary occasions, she had bounded without noticing them. 
               Arthur praised the beauties of the scenery, and listened with the most deferential attention to every word that fell from the rosy lips of Helen, and when they came to the cottage, his raptures did not subside. 
               "What an exquisite little bower!" he exclaimed. "It looks as if it might be the abode of Flora or the Fairy Queen Titania. Your home, Miss Morris, is a casket, fit to enshrine so beautiful a gem. Pardon me," he continued; "the thought came into my mind, and I expressed it without thinking that we were acquaintances of only a few hours." 
               "Why is it," said Helen, between a smile and a frown, "that all gentlemen are flatterers?" 
               "Truth," he replied, "when spoken to you, sounds like the exaggerations of flattery, but does not seem so to those who speak it. You must accustom yourself to judge us not as flatterers, for all men will address you in language which may seem too extravagant for truth." 
               "Worse and worse," laughed Helen. "But here we are at home, and after your long walk on my behalf, I cannot permit you to return without resting. Come, I will admit you into the charmed circle of the fairy queen's domains," she said, as she held the gate open. 
               Arthur entered with evident satisfaction. "I was born under a propitious star," he said to himself, as he walked by the side of Helen to the house. 
               Zenaida, who sat by the window reading, threw down her book when she heard the sound of the closing gate, and ran to meet Helen, anxious to ascertain the result of her visit; but she had advanced but a few steps when she perceived the gentleman who was with her. She paused, irresolute whether to advance or retreat, and compromised the matter by standing still. Helen presented her sister Zenaida to Mr. Bernard, and the trio entered the house, where Helen left Zenaida to entertain Arthur, while she retired to adjust her dress and smooth the glossy bands of jetty hair which adorned her pretty head. 
               Arthur felt more constrained, in the presence of this dreamy-eyed girl, than he had ever felt before within his memory, and for once his ready flow of, words failed him. He glanced at the figure before him, but Zenaida was not disposed to break the ice of conversation, and in this emergency Arthur picked up the book which she had been reading, and seeing that it was a copy of Horace, marked in many places to designate favorite passages, he turned to the blank leaf to ascertain the name of the owner, expecting to see that of Helen's father; but there he saw "Zenaida Morris," written in a hand unsurpassed in elegance and beauty of execution. 
               "So," said he, mentally apostrophizing the young girl, "your pretty eyes, instead of being employed with ribbons, laces, and finery in general, as is the case with many who are older, and ought to be wiser, are poring over this old book of a dead language, and, by the marked passages, I may infer that it is a labor of love, and not a forced task. I wonder what other authors this little lady affects. I will see." So saying, he looked over the collection on the table. 
               "Shakspeare, Spencer, Byron, Scott, Shelley, Keats, Hood, Tasso, Goethe, Jean Paul, and others too numerous to mention," ejaculated Arthur; "I believe I will venture to ask her some questions, and see if she reads understandingly;" but just as he formed this determination, Helen appeared, and Zenaida glided from the room. 
               "Does your sister read all these books?" he inquired. "I find her name in most of them. What beautiful writing!" he exclaimed, as he again opened one of the books. 
               "Yes," replied Helen, "she reads all these, and many more. The most of these are only her poets, and she reads all kinds of books. That, too," she said, taking the book from his hand, "is her writing, but not half as well done as some specimens I have. Ah! here is a copy of verses written by her. See, it is much more beautiful." 
               Arthur examined the paper, and here the subject dropped; for they found many things, of greater interest to themselves, to discuss. 
               Arthur was so well pleased with this visit, that as he walked back to the Manor he resolved to go again, and to improve the acquaintance which had commenced so pleasantly. 
               "Why, brother," exclaimed Florida, as he entered the room where she sat, "where have you been? Did you lose your way on this 'voyage of discovery?' You had better take a guide next time." 
               "I will," he replied aloud; then added to himself, "I did not lose my way, but I lost my heart, which I will not regret, if I can win one in return." 
                
               "Well, sis," said Helen, "what do you think of Mr. Bernard?" 
               "I think," replied Zenaida, "that he was very much absorbed in the contemplation of my books; so much so, indeed, that he did not honor me with a remark, by which I might be enabled to judge of his conversational abilities. He is handsome enough, and I suppose he can talk when he feels so disposed." 
               "Yes," said Helen, "he can talk beautifully; but you are so quiet, so abstracted. That must be the reason why he conversed none with you." 
               "That may be," replied Zenaida; "but, Helen, allow me to ask you a question-what do you think of Mr. Bernard?" 
               Helen blushed, and her cheeks were, still glowing, her eyes sparkling with more than their wonted brilliance, when her father returned. 
               "Why, daughter!" he exclaimed, "what have you been doing to make you look so bright?" 
               "I will volunteer to give an explanation," said Zenaida, glancing mischievously at Helen. "She went to Cabell Manor this evening, and Mr. Bernard, a fine-looking young gentleman, was so pleased with her that he followed her home; and it is doubtless the remembrance of some of his pretty speeches that makes her look so blooming." 
               "Nonsense, sis," said Helen, impatiently; "are you not ashamed to talk so?" 
               But the blush grew deeper, and this silent witness, together with her manifest vexation, convinced Mr. Morris that Zenaida was right in her conjecture; so he patted Helen on the head encouragingly, saying- 
               "Tell us what the young chap said, Helen; Zenaida and I would like to know." 
               But Helen was in no mood for jesting then, and at her own expense too. She did not wish her father to think that this young stranger could wield any power over her; so, upon some slight pretext, she left the room, hoping that the current of conversation might soon drift into some other channel. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               ARTHUR, thinking that he had succeeded in making a favorable impression upon Helen during his first visit, determined that it should not be effaced if he could prevent it; so after several days had elapsed, he again bent his steps in the direction of Willowbrook Cottage. 
               Helen and Zenaida were sitting on a rustic bench, which old Uncle Harry had made of twisted grape-vines, occupied with some light needle-work-at least Helen was; but Zenaida naida had laid hers aside, and was now, twining some red and white buds in Helen's hair. She had just arranged them to her satisfaction, when she looked upland saw Arthur at the gate. 
               "Oh, Helen!" she cried, "I have 'decked your hair with these roses rare' in good time, for there is Mr. Bernard. I know he cannot fail to admire the effect of these bright flowers, relieved against the dark background of your hair." 
               Arthur approached and having saluted the ladies, proposed that they should take a stroll along some of the pleasant wood-paths which abounded in the vicinity of the Cottage. 
               The plan met with their approbation, and, forth they started Zenaida taking the precaution to call Beppo to be her companion; for she knew that she could not expect to be entertained by Mr. Bernard or her sister. 
               "Helen," she said, as she came to a point from which two paths diverged, "both of these lead to the 'Fairies' Looking-Glass.' I will meet you there." 
               She was soon out of sight; but as Helen and Arthur more leisurely followed the windings of the other path, they occasionally heard the joyful bark of Beppo, or the sweet sound of Zenaida's voice, as she warbled some old-time ballad. 
               We will not repeat the conversation of these two young persons; for they were not aware that they had listeners, and their words were intended only for each other's ears. When they reached the spot appointed as a place of rendez-vous, they found Zenaida already there, reclining on a mossy bank sprinkled with flowers, and bending over to smooth her disheveled tresses, which were mirrored faithfully in the clear depths of the Fairies' Looking-Glass, as Zenaida had named the pretty place. 
               "I am afraid, Miss Zenaida," said Arthur, "that you will share the unhappy fate of Narcissus, if you gaze much longer at your own reflected loveliness." 
               She sprang up at the sound of his voice, exclaiming-"I wonder why I did not think of that before! This must have been the very place, or at least it was one just like it, where Narcissus fled from the pursuing Echo-where he languished and died; for the voice of the nymph still haunts these woods, and this is the fountain by which he reclined." 
               The place where they sat was a rocky ledge upon the verge of the water, which above them flowed through a narrow opening between two rocks. It here widened out, forming a pool, which was clear as crystal,-in which were seen glimpses of the blue sky, so far above; over which the bushes  hung so lovingly that their long branches were laved by the pure water. 
               Beppo stood quietly by Zenaida for a short time, but at last he was about to plunge into the water, when a squirrel hopped from a tree, close beside him and diverted his attention, much to the relief of his mistress. 
               "I am glad he is gone," she said; "for the fairies would have punished him if he had broken the smooth surface of their mirror." 
               "If, as you say, this is the fountain where Narcissus perished," said Arthur, "you must allow me to change the name by which you designate it. You must call it Diana's Mirror." 
               "I did not think of this fable when I named it," replied Zenaida, "or I would certainly have chosen the name you recommend." 
                
               The invitations to the party at Cabell Manor had been distributed, and Miss Annie, contrary to her wish, had been compelled to include Helen and Zenaida among the invited ones. Helen was in a flutter of delight at the thought of going, but Zenaida said "She did not wish to go; she would not enjoy herself if she did, and would rather be at home." 
               Helen was anxious to look her prettiest, for a reason she would not have owned to herself; and Zenaida busied herself about the arrangement of her dress with a zeal quite foreign to her usual indifference on the subject, ambitious that Helen should appear so that she would be free from all painful embarrassment on account of contrast, presented by her attire, when compared with that of others. 
               The important day at last arrived, and though to the excited mind of Helen it appeared long as half a dozen ordinary days, it at last approached its finality, and she began the important ceremony of robing for the festival with as much solicitude as if she were to appear at a Tuileries' ball. Her dress was a simple white muslin, beautifully clear, but unadorned, save by a fall of rich lace. A beautiful necklace of pearls, which had been her mother's, was her only ornament. Her hair, in the hands of Zenaida, was arranged with simple elegance, and, decorated with the stars of the milk-white fragrant jessamine-in her hand she held a bouquet, arranged by the same skillful fingers, with a perception of the harmonious blending of colors, which was not an acquired art but an innate gift. 
                
               When the last touches had been given, Helen came down stairs, followed by Zenaida in whose eyes she was more beautiful than Armida or Grecian Helen. Mr. Morris bestowed upon her a look of affectionate pride, and together they departed for the Manor, leaving Zenaida, to the companionship of silence and her own thoughts, or that of black mammy, as she liked best. 
               When they reached the Lodge, and the house was presented to view, Helen could not repress an exclamation of delight. The night was very dark, and the whole front of the mansion dazzlingly brilliant. The trees on each side of the avenue were hung with lamps, which sparkled among the leaves, and irradiated the surrounding darkness, giving the whole scene the character of a fairy-land revel. 
               As Helen was ushered in by the servant, who conducted her to the ladies' dressing-room, she caught a glimpse of Arthur, who, with several gentlemen, was promenading in the piazza. He was apparently much engrossed, and she passed on, thinking that he had not seen her. 
               Mrs. Cabell received her affectionately, asked why Zenaida did not come, and hoped that she might enjoy herself very much. Florida also met her cordially, adjusted her dress, praised the beauty of her flowers, and promised to take her under her own especial protection for the evening, which added greatly to Helen's comfort. 
               They soon proceeded to the parlors, where most of the guests were now assembled; but, before they reached their destination, Arthur was by Helen's side. To him Florida resigned her charge, and being soon besieged by applications for introductions in conversing with her new-made acquaintances Helen was for the time forgotten. 
                
               Miss Annie was passionately fond of dancing, and a set was soon formed of those who were disposed to indulge in this amusement, while those who preferred a promenade, or quiet talk, strolled out into the yard, or on the piazza, which, together with the court-yard, was hung with lamps. The brilliancy of these was reflected by the spray of the fountain, which, in this magic light, was transmuted into diamonds, pouring in a continuous stream from the urn of the Naiad, as if she had collected all the gems of Sinbad's valley, and was now dispensing them on all sides with the most reckless prodigality. 
               "What an exquisitely lovely sight!" sighed Miss Beatrice Bainbridge, who, with her attendant cavalier, Mr. Elliston Hunter, sought this place for a promenade. "Oh, Mr. Hunter," she murmured softly, "did you ever witness a scene more transcendently lovely? When I look upon it I can imagine that I am transported to the realms of fairy, and that Titania, that lovely creation of the poet's dream, is presiding over these revels. Don't you agree with me?" she said, with an appealing look at Mr. Hunter. 
               To this rhapsody of this most superlative young lady, the gentleman addressed returned a doubtful sort of assent, as if he felt bound to say something, and did not know exactly what to say. He was not at all imaginative, and could not sympathize with the extravagant expressions of delight to which his dark-eyed companion gave utterance. She, however, was not at all discomposed by his want of proper appreciation; for it was a luxury for her to talk, and she was perfectly satisfied if she occasionally elicited from her listener a monosyllabic response. 
                
               "If we," she said, after a pause, during which she had been contemplating the youthful promenaders, "could but listen, how many words of love would be heard to-night. Look at that handsome couple before us. What gloriously beautiful eyes the gentleman has, and he casts them upon his fair companion as if he would say with the poet- 
                      
                        'Without thy smile the monarch's lot 
                        To me were dark and lone, 
                        But with it even the lowliest cot 
                        Were brighter than his throne.' 
                     
                   Do you not think so?" she said, again appealing to her auditor, after delivering these lines in the most impressive manner. 
               "Yes," he replied, "he does appear to be very devoted, and, I think, displays good taste; for the young lady is certainly very lovely. The gentleman is Mr. Bernard, but the lady is a stranger to me. Do you know her, Miss Bainbridge?" 
               This young lady, seeing that her companion was completely dazzled by the beauty of the girl to whom she had directed his attention, now repented of her rashness, and endeavored to divert him from his observation of her. 
               The fair girl who was the subject of this conversation was Helen; her companion, as Mr. Hunter had said, Arthur Bernard. The devotion, which Miss Bainbridge had read so clearly in his eloquent eyes, was expressed also in words, which, whispered in the inexperienced ear of Helen, were echoed by her heart, the chords of which vibrated under the touch of his master-hand. But to this heart-melody which he had awakened, her lips refused to give utterance, though her tell-tale eyes and blushing cheeks would have betrayed her. 
               Arthur was spell-bound by her beauty, her sweetness of disposition, her uncontaminated purity; and out of the abundance of his heart his mouth spake. He had just finished the quotation of the following verse- 
                      
                        "There's such a glory on thy cheek, 
                        There's such a magic power around thee, 
                        That if I would, I could not break 
                        The spell with which thine eyes, have bound me," 
                     
                   when Miss Florida appeared. Her attention was at once attracted by seeing them still together. 
               "Arthur," she said, with a slight contraction of her brow, "is carrying his flirtation too far. Of course, it can be nothing but a flirtation on his part, and he may come out unscathed; but he will excite hopes in that young girl, which, destined never to be realized, will blight all her future life. I must separate them, for it was I who thoughtlessly threw them together." She walked toward them, exclaiming- 
               "Ah, my dear Miss Morris! have I found you at last? I will not permit my selfish brother to monopolize you entirely. It is a shame that you should blush unseen out here; so come, and I will introduce you to some of the beaux, whom we will find in the parlors." 
               With this she took, within her own, the unresisting arm of Helen, and moved away, leaving Arthur to bewail his sad fate. He walked restlessly to and fro for a time; then stationed tioned himself o the front, portico, where, through a window, he had a view of the parlors-where he could also survey the whole lawn. The dancers now paused for breath, and the music of the band was succeeded by that of the voice, accompanied by harp, piano, or guitar. Arthur could not have failed to fall under the sweet influences of the place. What fairer scene! The old hall that night 
                      
                        In summer's richest flowers, 
                        Decked like enchanted castle, while the light, 
                        From many a colored lamp in softest radiance pours. 
                        Soft music, drawn by love's own hand from the responsive strings, 
                        Is with the faint, hushed murmur of the night-wind blent, 
                        And low-breathed voices whisper precious things 
                        Which only for the ear of one beloved are meant. 
                     
                      
                        Gay, fairy forms in fleecy robes are gliding 
                        Under the arches formed by clasping vines, 
                        But now an intervening form is hiding 
                        The one who fairest 'mong those fair ones shines. 
                        And now again she stands within the light 
                        That falls so loving on her beauteous head, 
                        Crowned with its wreath of starry jasmine white, 
                        Fragrant as memory of the early dead. 
                     
                  
                
               That star-crowned head, he sees that, and blesses its bright beauty. 
               As they entered the parlor, the first object that attracted the attention of Helen was Mr. Hamilton Bainbridge, who was leaning against the window in the most graceful position, evidently thinking that the hearts of the ladies would be carried by storm, merely by the elegance of his appearance, without any exertion on his part. 
                
               "Who is that gentleman attitudinizing by the window?" inquired Helen. 
               "That," replied Miss Bernard, "is Mr. Bainbridge the Fascinating. Did you not observe him at church the other day? He did you the honor to inquire who you were, and as you seem to be struck with his elegant appearance, I must be mistress of ceremonies and give you an opportunity of adding another captive to your train. He has just returned from Europe, and is the vainest creature in the world; has adopted as his motto the 'veni, vidi, vici' of the old Roman; though, from all I can learn, do not think his success in lady-killing sufficiently great to justify his presumptuous appropriation of this venerable motto. I would like you to cultivate the acquaintance of this conquering hero. I will present him to you the first time an opportunity offers." 
               Helen would have declined, but Florida selected a seat near the window by which he stood, and motioned to Helen to take one beside her. As soon as Hamilton became aware of her close proximity, he roused himself from his abstraction, and approached her. 
               "Ah, Miss Bernard!" he exclaimed, "I am lifted from darkness into light by your most fortunate return. This room without your presence is like the night, when Luna veils her face behind the passing cloud." 
               He delivered this set speech, which he thought the sublimation of compliment, with a lisping accent, and a series of bows, each succeeding one more profound than its predecessor, with which pantomime Florida was much amused. 
               "Mr. Bainbridge," said she, "you are disposed to be complimentary plimentary to me to-night at the expense of other fair ladies present, who, I am confident, shine with a brilliancy not inferior to my own. But," she added, turning to Helen, "allow me to present you to my friend, Miss Morris." 
               Designated as "friend" by one occupying the unquestioned position of Miss Bernard, Helen immediately assumed importance in the estimation of Mr. Bainbridge. He had been compelled to acknowledge the power of her beauty when he first saw her at church, and now that she was indorsed by the elegant, fashionable Florida, her beauty was greatly enhanced. Helen was quite overwhelmed at the repetition of the series of salaams with which he had saluted Miss Bernard. 
               "He is like a Turkish courtier approaching his sultan," she said to herself. "I wish Miss Bernard would not leave me to entertain him alone." 
               But Florida, as soon as she had accomplished the introduction, entered into conversation with some one, and left Helen to the undisturbed enjoyment of the elegant attentions of Mr. Bainbridge. Helen could not help drawing contrasts between him and Arthur, whose society she had been compelled to resign, to give place to this disagreeable coxcomb. 
               "Your friend, Mith Bernard," he began, by way of prolegomena, "ith a very beautiful lady, Mith Morrith, almosth equal to some of the arithstocracy of Europe. One might almosth imagine she had been brought up there, her mannerth are so polisthed." Here the young gentleman looked very complacent, as if to say that his manners had been formed there, so he felt fully competent to decide. "She reminds me," he continued, "of a fathe I remember to have theen in thome of the celebrated gallerieth of Europe, but I cannot recollect where." 
               "Her beauty is as undenied as the beauty of a star," replied Helen, vainly wishing that some opportune circumstance might release her. "Miss Bernard would no doubt feel highly complimented, if she had heard your lofty panegyric. But do you award the palm of excellence to Europe in everything-beauty, elegance, and taste? You are exceedingly unpatriotic." 
               "Yeth," he lispingly answered, "I do. America ith almosth intolerable, and you would agree with me, if you had ever been fortunate enough to boast of several yearth' residence in Europe." 
               Helen cared not to prolong the discussion further, and was inexpressibly relieved when she saw her father approaching, to inform her that it was time to return home. She rose eagerly to meet him, and bowed her adieux to Hamilton and Miss Bernard. As she passed out of the front door, she saw Arthur pacing disconsolately to and fro beneath the trees. He came forward, and pressing her hand as he bade her farewell, whispered "I will see you to-morrow." 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               HOW has Zenaida amused herself, or whiled away the long hours of this evening, during which Helen has begun to realize the truth of the old song- 
                      
                        "There's nothing half so sweet in life 
                        As Love's young dream"? 
                     
                  
                   She sat for some time contemplating, with her mind's eye, the gay scenes in which Helen would mingle that night; but these scenes had little charm for her, even in imagination. 
               Black mammy came to sit with her; but she soon fell asleep, and Zenaida was again alone. The darkness gradually deepened round her; for she loved no light, on a summer night, but the soft moonlight. Now she sought her favorite seat by the window, and gazed forth into the solemn stillness of the night, unbroken, save by the whirring of insect wings-into the unfathomable depths of the sky, with delight mingled with awe. Everything was so still, and the bright stars, unobscured by the lightest cloud, were so far away, but they shone upon her from their height with a twinkling radiance, like the light of love in tender eyes, and she fancied that her mother beamed upon her from the brightest. She thought, too, that these myriads of shining stars were all bright worlds, so vast, so numberless, that the finite mind of man fails to grasp their extent, and wondered within herself if these worlds were really inhabited, and if the dwellers in them were free from the curse entailed upon the race of disobedient Eve. This earth appeared very small, very insignificant, in comparison with the dimensions of these other worlds, and very unworthy of the high place assigned it in the scale of the universe of God. 
               "But," said the voice of Zenaida's meditation, "God considered it of so great importance, that his only Son was given to die for the salvation of its sin-defiled inhabitants. If it appears insignificant in size, it is a very beautiful world-so beautiful, even in its fallen state, as to be worthy the love and admiration of all who draw their sustenance from its beneficent bosom. Glorious as thou art now, O Earth! with so many of the impressions of thy Maker's seal effaced by the ruthless hands of thy children, how inexpressible must have been thy beauty when in the dawn of creation, before the blight of sin and death had fallen upon thee, God looked upon his work and pronounced it good!" 
               Alas! for the human soul born into this world of the conflicting elements of good and evil, where the wicked too often flourish, while the righteous suffer! This child, with her noble mind and elevated aspirations-her love for all that is pure, and holy, and good-her abhorrence of vice, of meanness, of all moral obliquity-what is to be her destiny in life? Her mind works upon this problem, finding no solution; but well is it for her that she looks not here for that state of happiness for which her soul yearns. Her young heart, in the dewy freshness of its early morning, before it has been withered by the fiery breath of the furnace of affliction, or tainted in its spotless purity by the mildew of sin, has been offered upon the altar of her God-a sacrifice well pleasing in his sight. 
               "Why," said she, "should we wait to pay this votive of offering, to the Most High, until the heart has been given to the world and rejected by it, until we have nothing to offer but a crushed and broken sacrifice? Is not our God a joy in prosperity as well as a refuge in adversity? and are not all our pleasures multiplied a thousandfold, when we commit ourselves to his care with the undoubting confidence of a child in a loving, tender parent?" 
               So Zenaida muses upon life-her life-and, standing upon its threshold, wonders what task may be allotted to her, what mission it may be hers to perform; but the future, looming giant-like in the distance, gives forth no voice of warning, reveals nothing to the eye seeking to penetrate its hidden mysteries. 
               Of one thing she is assured, that the life given here is but a term of probation, in which to prepare for the realities of eternity; and, looking to the crown of immortality, the joys of heaven, the high prize for which she aims, she shrinks not from the dark valley that lies between, from the trials which are to refine the pure gold of her spirit, purifying it from its earthly dross. With mind at rest, and heart overflowing with love to God and all the creatures of his hand, all unkind, harsh thoughts and feelings banished, our Zenaida keeps her watch in the darkness. Are not angels hovering round her? Is not this murmur, that she hears, the rustling of their invisible wings? She starts, but it is naught but the night-breeze, or the leaves whispering softly in their sleep. 
               Had Zenaida been reared in the Old World, with its hoary ruins, monuments of past generations-with its wild legends, its haunted castles, its goblins, witches, and other creations of excited and superstitious imaginations, she, with her love for the unreal, would have been deeply impressed by their associations; but where her lot had fallen, everything was so fresh from the hand of God, so free from association with the sorrows, the sufferings, the crimes and calamities of man, that the emotions excited were those of pleasure rather than terror. So the darkness alarmed her not; no visitation of ghosts or evil spirits, no eerie sights or sounds disturbed her loneliness. Thus Mr. Morris and Helen found her. 
                
               "Why, sis," ejaculated Helen, "is it possible that you are sitting alone in the dark? Why do you not have a light?" 
               "Because I preferred to sit in the dark," she replied. "Neither am I entirely alone, for mammy is here, in this big chair, fast asleep." 
               Helen hastened to bring a light. 
               "I hope," said Mr. Morris, patting Zenaida's head, and bestowing a kiss upon her as she raised her face to his, "that you do not love darkness rather than light, because your deeds are evil?" 
               "No, papa," she replied, "I have neither thought nor done anything wrong, that I am aware of; but I can think better in the dark, or with my eyes shut, for then there is nothing to distract my attention." 
               "You talk as if your thoughts were to influence the destiny of the world, little sis," replied Helen. "Pray what has been the absorbing, subject of your important meditations to-night?" 
               "It would not interest you now," replied Zenaida, "if I were to tell you; for doubtless you are thinking of the incidents that occurred at the Manor, or of somebody whom I would name, but I spare your blushes before papa." 
               Helen hastily took up her candle, and proposed that they should retire, as the night was already far spent. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE summer advanced to its close, redeeming the promises of plenty, which its early days had given; the trees were laden with luscious fruits, sweet as ambrosial nectar; the vines were hung with heavy clusters of grapes, tempting to behold,-and still the guests lingered at Cabell Manor. 
               Mr. Ridgley had not wasted his precious moments, but had improved them by rendering himself indispensable to Miss Annie. At every little party which was held in the shady groves, within the stately walls of the Manor, or the neighboring mansions, he was her constant attendant, her companion in the dance, to the exclusion of all others. His flatteries fell gratefully upon her willing ear, and their engagement was soon currently reported in the country. 
               Florida had amused herself by exploring the country for miles around; had, after some difficulty, prevailed upon Zenaida to accompany her in some of her excursions. She had found her quite an agreeable companion, for she was acquainted with every romantic or attractive spot for some distance, and was familiar with every tree, shrub, plant, and flower, both by their technical and common names, and knew every bird by its note. Her eye was quick to detect charms which escaped those less observant, and she would point out to the astonished Florida not only the constant changes in the cloud-pictures she loved so well, but the modest beauties of the humblest plant or tiniest flower, which, but for her, would have been unheeded; for the eye of Florida took in the picture as a whole, without examining the details. 
               The thoughts of Zenaida, too, were clothed in language often poetic, always elegant; for she had lived in intimate communion with poets and the best authors, until her own ideas were unconsciously assimilated in expression to the words, symbols of their thoughts. She did not adorn her speech with little bits of stolen ornament, but the honey which she had industriously gathered was all her own. Her mental food, unlike that of Miss Bainbridge, had not remained in its crude, undigested state, but had been absorbed, contributing to the healthy growth of her mind, as material food to the development of the physical powers. 
               But, notwithstanding they had been thrown so much together, Florida had never been able to remove the reserve of Zenaida. She felt that she had never gone beyond the outer court of the temple of her heart. Strong, indeed, must be the claims of one who would be admitted to its sacred penetralia; for Zenaida was not one to form friendships lightly, to be as lightly broken. When she professed friendship, it was with the utmost sincerity-not from the lips, but from the heart; and although she held to her theory of first impressions, she drew no hurried conclusions when the worth of a friend was to be decided. 
               Miss Bernard was also extremely fond of riding on horseback, of which delightful, invigorating exercise Zenaida was ignorant, until initiated by Florida. It required but a few lessons from her more experienced companion, and a little practice, to render her more fond of it than those who had been habituated to it. 
                
               "It is so exhilarating," she said; "it sends the blood dancing through my veins with accelerated, joyful motion, tingling to the tips of my fingers, and causing my whole frame to vibrate with a thrill of delight before unknown." 
               Her cheek began to lose the pearly, lily-like whiteness so suggestive of fragility, to assume the rosy flush of health, and Florida, who saw and rejoiced at the change, would sometimes send her own elegant horse for Zenaida's use, when her engagements did not admit of her going to ride with her. 
               While they were riding, botanizing, and enjoying themselves, Arthur continued his devoted attentions to Helen; and Florida, who had treated the matter with indifference so long as she thought it mere pastime with her brother, hearing it whispered that he was in earnest, that he had no intention of renouncing Helen's love if he should succeed in winning it, as many thought he had done already, now deemed it necessary to remonstrate earnestly with him. She appealed to his pride, his worldly wisdom; she represented to him the alliances which he, handsome as he was, rich as he would be, and talented as every one acknowledged, might aspire to form-but all without effect. 
               "Sister," he replied, "the arrows of your arguments, keen though they be, fail to pierce my reason or convince my heart. Helen Morris (I confess it without the faintest blush of shame) I love, and of my love I contend that she is worthy. Her beauty, intelligence, her sweetness of disposition, her unsullied purity and undoubted worth, are to me a dower more valuable than all the gold of Ophir, the riches of the Rothschilds; and now hear my determination. If I can, I will woo and win the love of this dear girl; for she will adorn any position to which I may hope ever to be able to raise her. Your pride, my sister, is a false counselor, and were I to listen to it, would lead me to a life of misery, which you would not fail to commiserate, when too late." 
               "He will not yield now," said Florida. "But I will not be discouraged. His pride is now roused, and he delights to show his independence, his manly contempt for a woman's counsels; but another opportunity will doubtless occur when I shall find him more tractable, more willing to listen to admonition and remonstrance." 
               Vain hope for that time, contrary to her expectations, did not arrive, and Arthur's demeanor was such that she felt some hesitancy about renewing the contest from which, to judge from appearances, she could not reasonably hope to gain any advantage. 
               The time for their departure was drawing nigh, and she hoped that he would return home without having formed any engagement with Helen, or having any definite understanding with her, and when once released from the fascination of her presence, she flattered herself that his love would soon vanish; that this temporary idol would be deposed from the shrine it now occupied, to give place to another whom she might select, whom she might deem worthy to be admitted to a sister's place in her affections. 
               Arthur, however, as if predestined to disappoint the hopes and humble the pride of his sister, determined to ascertain, without delay, the feelings of Helen toward himself. With this view, he called a few days before the time appointed for their departure, and invited Helen to walk with him. 
                
               "Let us go to the Fairies' Mirror," said he, as she joined him. "The first walk we took was to that sweet place, and as this may be our last we will go there now." 
               Helen assented sorrowfully, for the thought that this might be their last meeting filled her heart with sadness, which was visible in her face. He told her of his hopes and fears; his love, and his desire that she should share his future fate, to smile upon him in joy and sympathize with him in sorrow. 
               "Helen," he said, "I will strive, for your sake, to attain eminence in my profession, if you smile upon my suit; but if you reject me, I shall have nothing to look forward to-no hope, no ambition. I love you, Helen, and if you will consent to be mine, not all the combined powers of earth shall be able to separate us from each other." 
               Helen heard this avowal with a heart throbbing with joy; for in all her day-dreams of the future, he had long held a prominent place. She believed that he loved her, even before his lips had uttered the words she so loved to hear, and, with all the trusting hopefulness of her nature, she relied upon his assurances; nor did the possibility of change, or faithlessness on his part, once cross her imagination. Therefore, without hesitancy, she avowed her preference for him above all others whom she had seen, and sealed his happiness by promising to be his. 
               "In two years, Helen," said Arthur, "I shall call upon you to redeem the promise you have made. I am studying law, and intend to adopt that as my profession; I will apply myself with greater diligence, now that I shall work for you as well as to gratify my own ambition, and as soon as I am located, I will come for you." 
               Two years! The gloomy shadows of the dark-winged spirit of mistrust fell not on them, and they thought not of the evil that might befall it those two years. 
               "You will tell papa," said Helen, when they were about to part. "But I am his pet, you know, and he will not interfere with any plan which will promote my happiness." 
               The gentle kiss, the tearful smile, the fervent, "God bless you" of the kind old father, ratified their engagement, and their hearts were full of happiness when they parted. 
               
                   
                     True, they shed some tears at parting, 
                     But they were like April showers; 
                  
                   
                     For, while they were falling fastest 
                     Light broke through the vapory cloud, 
                     Tears were changed to gem-like dew-drops, 
                     And their souls in joyance bowed, 
                  
                   
                     As they hailed the arch of glory, 
                     Hope's bright rainbow in the sky, 
                     And the future whispered to them- 
                     "See the promise ever nigh: 
                  
                   
                     "Bright the past seemed to your vision, 
                     Bright the flowers your pathway strewed; 
                     But the future shall be brighter, 
                     All its blossoms fairer-hued. 
                  
                   
                     "Many sweets are mingled for you, 
                     Love has crowned your cup of life 
                     With his richest, rarest roses, 
                     Stripped of every thorn of strife. 
                  
                  
                   
                     "God along your path has shaken 
                     Gleams of light from Love's own sun; 
                     He has woven your rose wreathed bowers- 
                     His your treasures every one. 
                  
                   
                     "His the love that doth awaken 
                     In your souls their dreams of bliss, 
                     As the Sun calls forth the flowers 
                     From Earth with his balmy kiss." 
                  
                
               Was hope's song a syren one? Will the future redeem its promises? The years will tell. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE farewells had all been said; the guests had departed from Cabell Manor, taking with them Miss Annie, who was quite elated at the prospect of a winter's campaign in the city. Already in imagination many love-lorn suitors knelt at her feet, and her eyes sparkled with her anticipated triumphs. As the distance between them and Willowbrook increased, Florida breathed more freely. She could now influence Arthur when he was no longer bewitched by the bright eyes of Helen Morris, so she thought, little dreaming of the vows which had been exchanged before he left her. 
               The current of life at the cottage, which had been rippled by an occasional visit from the Manor, now flowed in its former unbroken quietness and stillness. Helen's heart, it is true, enshrined an image which formerly had there no place, but her inner life alone was changed. Arthur was constantly in her thoughts, and "I must do this to please Arthur," or "What would Arthur say?" were phrases which she often repeated. She busied herself as usual with her domestic duties, perfecting herself for the sphere of action which would soon be allotted to her. 
               Zenaida's chief delight out of doors, during the first autumn months, was her garden, which, revived by the more genial temperature after the fervid heats of summer, bloomed in beauty surpassing even the first flush of spring. The stately dahlias bowed beneath the weight of their flowers of gorgeous dyes; the beds of verbenas glowed in the chastened sunlight, with unrivaled prodigality displaying every tone in the diapason of colors, from the regal purple and crimson of deepest dye, the flaming scarlet dazzling the eye with its intense brightness, to the softest, most delicate rose-color and pale lilac. Others, again, devoid of any color, were pure as the spotless innocence of infancy, with an odor faint like a strain of far-away music, stealing upon the senses, now distinguished, now imperceptible, inspiring doubts as to its reality. The roses, which had languished while Sirius raged, now put forth fresh leaves, buds, and blossoms, and, grateful for admiration, rewarded every appreciative beholder with their exquisite fragrance and beauty. "The jessamine faint, and the sweet tuberose" gave forth their odors; amaranths, emblems of immortality, and mignonnette, like a modest maiden, plain in appearance but delighting all by her unassuming worth, grew there in great profusion. 
               
                   
                     "There was a power in this sweet place, 
                     An Eve amid this Eden." 
                  
                
               And this power, this Eve, was our Zenaida. 
                
               "Her garden," she said, "was her kingdom, her flowers her loyal subjects, with whom she took greater delight in conversing than with her fellow-beings. In communion with the latter, and with our own hearts, we are constantly reminded how far we fall below the standard of ideal excellence; but some, many of my flowers are perfect; I could not suggest an improvement if I would; the real is unsurpassed by the ideal. They have beauty, grace, delicate ethereal loveliness, combined with fragrance, which is the soul of flowers; and then, too, they are the characters in which the name of God, most dear to us, is written upon the earth-for what are they but symbols of the unrevealed love, the unimagined beautiful? What heart so insensible that it has failed to learn wisdom from the gentle teachings of these 
                      
                        'Floral apostles who, in dewy splendor, 
                        Weep without woe, and blush without a crime!'" 
                     
                  
                
               So, from their "voiceless lips," whose silence was more eloquent than words, did Zenaida learn many lessons. The fragrance which they continually exhaled shamed the heart from which the incense of prayer ascended not. From the daisy she caught the upward look of faith; summer friendship was rebuked by the close-clinging tendrils of the vine; gentle submission was taught by the blossoms which bowed meekly before the storm; joy after adversity was learned from these same flowers, which, after the storm was passed, lifted their heads, each tear-drop with which their bright eyes were bedewed becoming a mirror from which the light of renewed hope was reflected in many colors. 
               Under these gentle influences her mind and heart expanded panded. Absorbed in the contemplation of the lovely in Nature, she heeded not the poisonous weeds, and learned not the lessons of hatred, strife and evil passions inculcated by them. 
                
                  Her fair soul was a mirror which reflected 
                  The beautiful and true, e'en as the placid lake 
                  Reflects the golden stars; and ever she selected 
                  The good, the pure, such as e'en here can make, 
                  A heaven of earth. 
                
               Oh, enchanted land of youth! garden of the imagination! blissful dreams before the life-awakening!-she walks yet within thy precincts, where 
                      
                        The soul, lapped in Elysium, 
                        Lulled with music here, 
                        Half forgets its dreams of heaven, 
                        Knowing earth so fair. 
                     
                      
                        True, thy skies are not all cloudless, 
                        Storms sweep o'er their clear deep blue; 
                        But they pass, and sunlight brightens 
                        All again with magic hue, 
                     
                      
                        Till earth seems a fairy garden, 
                        Dazzling with its witching gleams, 
                        And the soul is filled with murmur 
                        Of its dancing silvery streams. 
                     
                      
                        Floral bells ring out their perfumes, 
                        Melodies to spirit ears; 
                        Bright birds flit among the branches, 
                        Messengers from far-off spheres. 
                     
                     
                      
                        "God is love," the brook is murmuring, 
                        "God is love," the flower bells ring, 
                        "God is love," the bird is warbling- 
                        Life is all one rosy spring. 
                     
                  
                
               The fair aspect of the garden was soon changed. The frost came, and with its first breath the delicate beauty of the flowers perished. Stripped of their festal robes of crimson, purple, blue, and burnished gold, they looked unutterably sad in their mute distress. The few pale sickly blooms, put forth by some more hardy, were so like ghosts of their former selves, that Zenaida could not endure to look upon them. 
               From this scene of desolation she turned to the forests, which, in anticipation of death, had donned their most gorgeous attire, as if, like a warrior-king, they had determined to die gloriously. The conquering power could not triumph in their decay, for in death they shone forth with a splendor so far transcending the utmost beauty of their life, that the terror of the destroying influence was merged in admiration for the heroism with which they met a late inevitable. Dead, but not conquered; cast down, but not destroyed; yielding, but unintimidated, of how much greater victory are they but the faint type, the dim shadow, even the triumph of the blessed over the darkness, the terror of death and the grave! 
               Zenaida roamed through the woods, noting the colors assumed by each tree. The rustling of the fallen leaves was music which kept time to her thoughts, sweet yet sad. When weary, she would sit upon the ground covered with a thick, soft carpet of leaves, and watch those that were still falling; the bright red of the gum, like flakes of fiery snow; the maple, bestrewing the earth with a shower of gold; the oak, king among kings, with royal prodigality casting down myriads of rubies from his magnificent diadem, until the last had been given, and his lofty head, without protection, was exposed to the keen blasts of the icy winds, the pelting fury of the merciless storm. 
               The view from the hill above the cottage was one upon which the eye would linger long without satiety, could we upon this Indian-summer morn stand upon this eminence by the side of Zenaida. The features of the landscape, seen through the misty veil peculiar to this season, are softened into languor; the colors of the forest blended in a mass, defying the power of words to describe, or artist to portray, a correct representation of their glory; the fields spread out below, adorned with stacks of grain and shocks of corn; one field, belonging to the Manor, is covered with hemp which had fallen in rows before the reaper, and now with the sunlight glancing on it, presents the appearance of a lake of burnished gold, waving and rippling in the mellow radiance of the autumn day. Through this the streamlet winds, in many curves, a thread of silver in this cloth of gold, its surface freighted with a host of tiny barns, which have fallen upon it from the overhanging tress, which fairy barks carry the departing angels of the leaves, after whom the deserted tree look with a sad glance, and a sigh which Zenaida hears upon the hill-top. 
               Above all, the sky bends down protectingly, its deep blue ocean flecked with particles of cloud, soft and fleecy, which float with a motion so full of bliss, that they seem the snow-white sails of the pleasure-boats of heaven's angels. Sometimes they glide over the sun, and a shadow falls upon the landscape, immediately followed by a burst of joyous light, as joy and sadness chase each other upon the human countenance. 
                
               On one of the loveliest days of this lovely season, Mrs. Cabell sent over to the cottage for the girls. She had made up a party to spend the day in the woods hunting nuts, and she wished them to join it. 
               They obeyed the summons with many anticipations of pleasure. Helen regretted the absence of Arthur, for his presence would have lent an additional charm to every pleasure; but Zenaida was free from all regrets of this nature, and though she cared little for the formal reunions at the houses of her neighbors, she hailed this with delight, for a party in the woods was in exact accordance with her taste. 
               Among, those who were assembled at the Manor they found Beatrice and Alice Bainbridge; the little Amy and the exquisite Hamilton. Beatrice was not very sensitively alive to the beauties of nature; but she counterfeited the feelings and expressions of an ardent worshiper, and on this occasion rejoiced that she would have an opportunity to utter some of the "beautiful sentiments" to quote many passages from her "dear poets," appropriate to the season, which for some time she had been assiduously studying. 
               When they were about to start, the gentlemen appeared anxious to avoid her; but it was Mrs. Cabell's care to provide vide each lady with an escort, and having divided them out, allotting young Bainbridge to Zenaida, she approached Elliston Hunter, (who had retreated to the piazza, upon pretence of getting a drink of water, but really to avoid Miss Beatrice,) to inform him that she expected him to play the agreeable to Miss Bainbridge. 
               "Oh, Mrs. Cabell!" he exclaimed, "have you no mercy? I have had some experience of Miss Bainbridge's conversational powers, and I know I shall be overwhelmed, almost annihilated; for vain is my arduous effort to stem the tide of words that flows from her lips. I was so stunned by the roar of this irresistible torrent of talk when I last saw her, that I have not yet recovered." 
               "For shame, Mr. Hunter!" rejoined Mrs. Cabell, "to speak so of this erudite young lady. I will be relentless to-day, and compel you to go with her, that she may avenge herself." 
               "Oh, direful day! oh, woeful day!" he ejaculated, as he submissively followed Mrs. Cabell. 
               "Now," said that lady, motioning Elliston to his place by Beatrice, "we are all here. Young ladies and gentlemen we will now take up our line of march; Amy and I will command, and keep order in the company. And here I have the big dog and these two little Africans, quite an imposing and brilliant staff and guard of honor!" 
               Zenaida on this day, conquering her natural timidity and reserve, and taking the mental dimensions of Hamilton at a glance, determined to have some sport, and try his patience not a little. 
               "I wonder what pleasure he expects with all this finery on, going through the woods?" she said. "He continually reminds me of Hotspur's description of the gentleman who demanded his prisoners; for I am sure he is 'perfumed like a milliner,' and no doubt 'talks like a waiting gentlewoman.' Well, as I am to be, 'pestered with this popinjay,' it still not be for naught." 
               She yielded herself up to the influences of the balmy, invigorating air, and the soft bright sunshine. She walked rapidly, and was continually diverging from the path, followed by the rest of the party, in pursuit of leaves, which at a distance attracted her by their brilliancy. She gathered as many as she could carry, and then called upon Mr. Bainbridge to lend his assistance, which he did with secret dissatisfaction. She next spied an Indian Arrow, or Wahoo-bush, with its clusters of bright-scarlet berries. A desire to have some of them immediately took possession of her. She ran to it, but they were above her reach, as she well knew; so Hamilton's services were again called into requisition. 
               "Oh, Mr. Bainbridge!" she cried "they are so pretty, and I cannot reach them! Do come and gather some of these bright berries, for I must have some!" 
               He obeyed with extreme reluctance, vowing that it should be the last time that he would wait upon or follow this little will-o'-the-wisp, who led him in all sorts of unheard-of places, with no guide but her own wild will. But when, after some difficulty, he succeeded in reaching the berries and placing some beautiful clusters in her hand, she looked at him with her beautiful blue eyes sparkling with delight, her cheeks glowing with exercise, her rosy mouth dimpled with smiles, and thanked him so prettily for taking so much trouble to gratify her, he forgot his vexation, and was surprised to find himself contemplating with interest the pretty picture. 
               Zenaida carefully deposited her treasures in the little basket which she carried, and, for awhile, touched with compassion, walked more leisurely by the side of her companion. In conversation they could not agree, for on most subjects their opinions were diametrically opposed. She derived pleasure from the simple amusements of her every-day life, and dilated with glowing words upon the beauty of her favorite sylvan haunts; while he voted the country dull, its amusements insipid. In fact, he was bored to death, and rejoiced that he would soon return to the city, where his multitudinous graces could be exhibited to greater advantage on the promenade and in the assembly rooms. 
               "Ah, Mith Morrith!" he sighed, "you, who live in this dull country, can have no idea of the attractions of the city, even one of our American cities, which are the mosth indifferent spethimens of cities I ever saw. Ah!" he said with another sigh, "you should thee thome of the cities of Europe which I have visited. Parith, dear delightful Parith! how I long for a thight of your magnifithent sthreets and stately palathes! How I do commistherate those unfortunate perthons who have never been beyond the bounds of this miserable country!" 
               But if Zenaida had never seen the places of which he spoke, she had read, and, by a few judicious inquiries, she soon discovered that in his boasted "travels" he had derived no pleasure from historical or poetic associations. The places he had visited being viewed in the light of the present sent, not of the past, appealed neither to his memory nor imagination. He had traveled because other young men of fortune did;- 
                      
                        "Had stood in Venice on the Bridge of Sighs, 
                        With Murray's red-backed guide-book in his hand," 
                     
                   and upon many spots immortalized by the pens of poets and historians; but no voice from the past whispered in his ear of the things that had been. 
               The conversation soon became uninteresting to Zenaida, who, at first amused at the grand airs assumed by Mr. Bainbridge, now felt for him the most unmitigated contempt and pity, as she thought of the time wasted, the opportunities unimproved, by this conceited, insensible youth. The complacency with which she had listened was soon laid aside, and the system of petty annoyances resumed. 
               She saw that he liked to monopolize the attention of those with whom he was brought in contact, so she called Amy, who was just in advance, and completely won her favor by presenting her with some clusters of her berries. She was fond of children, and this Amy soon discovered; and to-day her feelings were attuned in harmony with the pretty child's. They laughed, and sang, and frolicked with Beppo, to the amusement of Mrs. Cabell and the infinite disgust of Hamilton, and ere the day closed a warm friendship was established between these two girls, alike pure-hearted. Amy did not walk: she danced, as if her footsteps kept time to the glad melody of her heart. Her laugh was musical as the caroling of birds; her deep blue eyes sparkled with the happy light of childhood undimmed by care; her hair curled in tiny rings, like pure gold, above a face faultless in feature and expression, and to the admiring eyes of Zenaida she seemed the personification of innocent joy and beauty. 
               From present appearances, it was evident that Mrs. Cabell's company would return home laden with few spoils, if they depended upon their own industry to collect them; but they impressed into active service the colored recruits from the Manor cabins, who had been invited that they might carry the dinner-baskets and climb trees, and so this difficulty was obviated. 
               When the hour for dinner arrived, they all assembled by the side of a clear spring which gushed forth from a mossy rock, and, winding through the grass and leaves for a few yards, poured its tributary waters into the "bonnie burn." Here the cloth was spread, and the dinner brought forth, to which all did ample justice except the pseudo-sentimental Miss Bainbridge, who protested that she was not in the least hungry. "She had enjoyed such a feast of reason, such a flow of soul, that she was not conscious of the need of any other refreshment. She could live upon the odors of flowers, like that dear Namouna, the enchantress!" 
               "That fare may suit you, Miss Bainbridge," said Mr. Hunter; "but it is too unsubstantial for me after our long walk, so I beg you will pardon me for being so commonplace and prosaic as to eat some of these good things which Mrs. Cabell has so bountifully provided." 
               After the repast was concluded, they remained for some time in this pleasant place, and Zenaida being still more attentive to Amy than to her brother, that much-injured individual proposed to one of the other gentlemen to change partners. 
                
               "Percy, my dear fellow," said he, "I am bored to death with that little evil genius, who has made me run up hill, wade through dead leaves piled up knee-high in those odious hollows, climb over huge fallen trees, and everything provoking she could possibly think of. Look here," he continued, "my hat is full of red and yellow leaves, which she told me to carry, as if I were a sumpter mule. My gaiters are bursted, my straps broken, and all for the gratification of that deuced-" 
               "Hold, Bainbridge!" exclaimed Percy, "I cannot permit you to call that pretty girl any harsh names. I think you are very fortunate to have a companion who must be as tricksy a sprite as Puck or Ariel, who, in addition to her other qualities, has the power to make you quite eloquent in summing up your list of grievances." 
               "If you consider me so fortunate," eagerly rejoined Bainbridge, "you will be not only willing but anxious to make the exchange I proposed. Will you not?" 
               "Pardon me, my dear fellow," replied Percy; "I could not possibly be so disrespectful to Miss Hamilton as to leave her, who has made the hours fly winged with delight, even for the charming companion you propose to resign." 
               Concealing his delight at the evident vexation of Bainbridge, Percy turned to seek again his fair partner, to whom, with enjoyment, he gave a ludicrous account of the discomfiture of Hamilton Bainbridge. 
               "He will either have a solitary walk home," he said, in conclusion, "or a tte--tte with the stately dowager of Cabell Manor; for that pretty girl does not intend to trouble herself about him farther, and thereby she shows, conclusively, that she is a lady of sense and taste." 
               "Mr. Hunter," said Beatrice, after that gentleman had finished his dinner and resumed his seat beside her, "do you not think there is something inexpressibly mournful, and at the same time pleasing, in these melancholy days of autumn, 
                      
                        'When the leaves, brown, yellow, and red, 
                        And white with the whiteness of what is dead, 
                        Like troops of ghosts on the dry wind pass'?" 
                     
                  
                
               "Oh, yes!" replied Mr. Hunter, laconically. "Elliston," he added to himself, "make up your mind for what is coming." 
               "The sadness," continued Beatrice, "which oppresses one while beholding the transcendent glories of this season of death, is in a measure lightened by the certainty with which we look forward to the re-awakening of Nature in the spring, when the mantle of verdure will again be spread over the earth. Ah!" she sighed- 
                      
                        "'Too happy earth! over thy face shall creep 
                        The awakening vernal airs, until thou, leaping, 
                        From unremembered dreams, shall see 
                        No death divide thy immortality.' 
                     
                   Don't you agree with me, Mr. Hunter? Or am I unveiling my thoughts to one devoid of sympathy? I am sure you agree with me." 
               "Oh, yes!" again replied Elliston, his favorite monosyllables ever recurring, like the "chorus of frogs" in the drama of Aristophanes, or the "chorus of swine" in the dipus Tyrannus of Shelley. 
                
               This assent was perfectly satisfactory to Beatrice, who was convinced by it that Elliston was listening, and, to her, his silent comments were as if they had not been. While she spoke, he was thinking of the one to whom she might fall in the lot of life. 
               "Thrice happy man! I hope he may be poor and fond of poetry, for then she will be a convenient, portable compendium, a book of quotations always ready, never failing. I have read of a girl out of whose mouth, whenever she spoke, fell pearls and roses; but this is the first one I ever saw from whose lips came forth verses ad infinitum. I wish I could think of some, I would quote them for her, until she was as tired as I am. I wish her no harm, save that she may yet meet one who will beat her at her own game." 
               After another ramble the party returned to the Manor, where Mrs. Cabell detained them for the evening. She was fond of young company, and watched with interest the progress of the flirtations among her young guests. Zenaida, to whom Amy clung, occasionally begging for a kiss, sat by. Mrs. Cabell, who gave her a history of the portraits on the walls, and the ancient furniture, in which she was greatly interested. When they parted for the night, Zenaida made Amy promise to come to the Cottage, which promise she gave joyfully. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE two years, which were to be the period of probation with Arthur and Helen, had now passed, not without many changes. Annie Cabell had become Mrs. Ridgely, and only honored the Manor by an occasional visit. Her mother, unwilling to leave her home, and oppressed by her loneliness, had sent for a niece, who now lived with her. Mary Worthington was young, the orphan daughter of Mrs. Cabell's only sister, and she now filled a daughter's place in the heart of her worthy aunt. She was a girl of fine intellect, which had not been neglected in its cultivation. Her spirits were naturally gay and buoyant, and the cloud which hung over her when she first came to the Manor was soon dissipated. None of the haughtiness of Annie could be seen in her, and when her aunt recommended the daughters of Mr. Morris as her companions, she took them at once to her heart and friendship. Attracted by her, Helen and Zenaida traversed more frequently the path to the Manor; and often could Mary be found with Helen in the Cottage, chatting gayly, and plying her needle with industrious zeal, or examining the flowers in the garden with Zenaida. Under her care vines twined the pillars, around the stately portico of the Manor, and flowers from Zenaida's stock bloomed around the fountain; water-lilies drooped over its margin, to look at their forms reflected there; and gold-fish gleamed in the waters of the basin. 
                
               "Mary is a treasure," said Mrs. Cabell, as she looked approvingly upon her. "I do not know what will become of me when you girls, like my Annie, leave me." 
               "Do not distress yourself, aunt," said Mary; "you will be tired of me long before you will find any one to relieve you of your burden." 
               "You would not say that if you thought so, Mary," replied Aunt Cabell. 
               The inmates of the Cottage bore witness to the lapse of time. The health of Mr. Morris, always delicate, was now more so, though his indisposition was never severe enough to excite gloom in the minds of his daughters; but his hair, which had been black like the glossy braids of Helen, was now sprinkled thickly with silvery white, and a languor was diffused through his whole frame, which warned him of an approaching decline. Helen was much improved. Her manners, which had always been pleasant, were more than ever winning. 
               Arthur had proved constant, had studied hard, had graduated with honor, had been a regular correspondent during the period of their separation, and Helen's heart beat high with hope and pride in him, the object of her first love. No canker-worm of grief or doubt destroyed the bloom of her fresh young cheek; no tear of sorrow dimmed the bright lustre of her loving eye. She was happy; for Arthur had written that he was coming in a few days, had also written to her father that he might know if he still looked with approbation upon his suit. The thought of parting with his Helen, whose tender smiles and loving voice exorcised the demon of pain, filled the heart of Mr. Morris with sadness; but he had confidence in Arthur's integrity and strength of character, and, knowing that his own death was approaching, felt that it would be a consolation to him to leave her under the protection of one who would cherish her with all the kindness of a noble, manly heart, and shield her from the rude storms of life. So he called Helen, and having listened to the outpouring of the tide of love which filled her guileless heart, reading in every word and look the confidence stronger than life which she felt in her chosen one, he again ratified the contract she had made, and bestowed upon her his blessing in a voice so full of tender pathos, that Helen was touched with remorse to think that she had been dreaming of deserting this dear father for one who was to her a comparative stranger. She wept and clung to his neck. He leaned forward, imprinted a kiss upon her brow, unclasped her twining arms, placed her in his chair, and left the room; for her struggle between conflicting loves and duties unnerved him, and unfitted him for the task imposed upon him. 
               Zenaida! What new thoughts, emotions-what change in heart, mind, or form have these two years brought to her? When we last saw her she was like a bud so tightly folded in its green envelope that nothing of its rich fragrance, glowing color, or beautiful proportions, could be discovered; but now the fair flower, in its sheltered seclusion, was slowly unfolding, the pearly dew upon its fresh leaves, unexhaled by the glare of public admiration, giving promise of a glorious maturity. She was not so generally beloved as Helen, who was alive to all the sympathies of common humanity, while Zenaida lived in an ideal world, surrounded by creatures of thought and imagination. Fond of history, she was more at home in the world of the Past than the Present. She was never lonely; for she possessed a talisman more potent than the magic lamp of Aladdin, the wand of the Queen of Fairies, or the cabalistic words of magicians, by which she could summon spirits to minister to her in any mood-the talisman of intellect. They spoke to her from books, in the murmur of the stream, the rustle of the wind-swept trees, in the angry rush of the storm, and looked at her with loving eyes from the holy stars. 
               "The bark of her life was moored in a quiet haven," drawn up to a green shore, enameled with flowers of light, love, peace, and happiness; and her heart arose in gratitude to God who had permitted her, not more worthy than many less fortunate, to learn lessons of wisdom from the gentle teacher, Nature, amid the beautiful scenes which surrounded her. 
               For a time Helen's face was like an April day, alternating between clouds and sunshine, tears and smiles; smiles called forth by the anticipation of a meeting with Arthur, tears by the thought of leaving the pretty nest where, in the absence of the mother-bird, her father had so lovingly sheltered her with his protecting wing. But her heart was strong, and, when Arthur came, the sunshine gained supremacy; the tear-drops, lingering upon her long lashes, became iridescent in the light of unclouded hope. 
               Zenaida liked Arthur, and resigned her sister to him as willingly as she would have done to any one; but she did not realize the change that would fall upon the house with the departure of Helen, the sunshiny smiles of whom had been its vitalizing principle. She pictured to herself the devotion with which she would attend upon her father, that he might not miss the gentle ministrations of Helen, and the additional importance with which she would be invested as the head of the housekeeping department; but she could not know how the vacant chair by the fireside; the quick, light footstep listened for and no longer heard; the absence of the sweet voice warbling some song he loved, or greeting him with glad accent; of the bright, beautiful face no longer presiding at his table, would affect the spirits of her father, already depressed by bodily weakness, the extent of which he strove to conceal. But to the young there was no spectre present at the bridal. 
                      
                        "Summer was dead, and Autumn was expiring, 
                        And infant Winter laughed upon the land, 
                        Cloudless and cold," 
                     
                   when Helen left the Cottage for her new home near the city of L--. 
               The marriage was solemnized by Mr. Thornley, the good pastor of Grove Church, and witnessed by Mrs. Cabell, Mary, and several other friends. 
               "My dear," said Mrs. Cabell, as she offered her congratulatory kiss, "I did not know that my nephew was laying plans to pluck our wild-rose when he was staying with me. You see my forebodings are correct. I told you, you would all leave me. You bear the bell, and lead off in the dance, and Mary and Zenaida will certainly follow. Now I must wish you all happiness, although you have set a bad example before my other girls." 
               "You, also, aunt," said Mary, roguishly, "have given the weight of your example to establish this precedent; and you know example is better than precept. When I can find some one as handsome and clever as my Cousin Arthur, I shall most assuredly 'set my cap' for him.' Oh, cousin!" she cried, as Arthur thanked her for her compliment, "I did not know that you were near, or I would not have flattered your vanity, which is already in a flourishing condition; for I am so vexed with you for taking our Helen away, that I could cry with good grace. What am I to do without her? I shall be, without her, 
                      
                        'Like a bird with one wing, 
                        A lute with one string,' 
                     
                   or a book with a handful of leaves torn out at the most interesting part." 
               "I am sorry for you, Cousin Mollie," replied Arthur; "but I can afford you no alleviation for your grief." 
               With prayers mingled with tears, the father and sister embraced their Helen, and saw her depart, leaning upon him to whom her future life was bound indissolubly, who comforted her heart, sad at parting, with loving words and bright anticipatory pictures of the life they would lead in their new home. 
               After all the guests had left the Cottage, the feeling of desolation came upon its inmates, and they yearned for the light which had shone for them, but would now illumine another's dwelling. 
               "I am desolate!" murmured the father. "My beautiful child has preferred another-has left my love for that of a stranger, and I am lonely in my old age!" 
                
               "Am I, then, naught to thee, O my father?" said the plaintive voice of Zenaida close beside him. "Cannot my love, my devotion, console you in some degree? I will never leave nor forsake thee, father!" she continued, kneeling by his side, and raising imploringly her blue eyes, swimming in unshed tears. "Will you not suffer me to fill the place in your heart which my sister has left vacant?" 
               "My child," replied the voice of her father, tremulous with emotion, "forgive the grief I manifest, and think not I am insensible to your love. My words were hasty and ill-advised, for I am not, cannot be desolate, while such love as yours is mine. Forgive me that I said so." 
               She smiled through her tears, and inwardly renewed the vow she had made; and from that day his happiness and comfort were her study. The books he loved she read aloud, and from the cells of her mind, which were stored with the honey of sweet thoughts, she brought forth treasures which had been hidden from his eye, the richness of which surprised and delighted him. The dishes he liked she learned to prepare, and when illness set in, from a violent cold he had taken, she nursed him with a skillful anticipation of his wishes which could not have been expected from one whose experience was so limited. 
               The physician, old Doctor Scott, from Montrose, praised her intelligence, and the fidelity with which his prescriptions were followed; but the heart of Zenaida was sick with sad forebodings, and the praise or blame from any lips but her father's fell unheeded by her inattentive ear. 
               She did not mention these sad forebodings in her letters to Helen. She said that papa was sick, but she was unwilling willing to rouse her anxiety, to cloud the bright morn of her married life with the shadow that fell upon herself from the advancing form of the black-winged angel of death. Already she felt that the cold, chill air was stirred by his dusk pinions; that he hung above, hovering round the house, waiting for the moment when he might descend to seize his unresisting prey. 
               The neighbors were kind, and assisted her as much as possible in her labors of love. As the winter advanced, the violence of fever subsided. Mr. Morris regained sufficient strength to sit up for a few hours at a time in an easy chair, though the cough, which at intervals convulsed his frame, forbade the hope of his ultimate recovery. 
               Mr. Thornley now proved himself to be "the friend in need, who is the friend indeed." He would sit by the side of Mr. Morris with a patient assiduity almost womanly, waiting upon him, reading for him, and praying with him. Noticing the extreme paleness of Zenaida, and attributing it to confinement in the sick-room and constant watching-knowing not that the sympathetic tie, which bound her to her beloved and dying father, was so strong, that, as the tide of his life ebbed daily lower, the tenure by which she held her existence grew gradually less strong-he would with gentle words entreat her "to intrust her father to his care, to go forth into the fresh air and walk, for to her, who had lived so much out of doors, this monotony of the sick-room must be extremely irksome as well as injurious." 
               The changing hues and forms of the clouds, the variations of weather, which had always been daily and hourly noted by Zenaida, had of late passed unheeded, save when the howling of the wind, the groaning of the trees, or the fitful sobbing of the winter rain had disturbed the rest of her father. 
               Now when, in obedience to the gentle command of her friend, she walked forth, the earth was covered with a spotless mantle of new-fallen snow, which had turned to rain ere the clouds were exhausted, and now clothed every bush, tree, and house-top with pendant ornaments of translucent ice, sparkling, flashing, glowing with the intolerable splendor of diamond-light in the clear, wintry sunshine. Had she not been oppressed by the sad fancies which had crowded round her in the room of illness, perhaps of death, Zenaida would have luxuriated in the cold brilliance of the scene before her; but the white vestment of the earth brought before her shuddering mind the garb of the grave, and the icy bonds which fettered the land which the sun had not power, to dissolve, presented to her the body depraved of the warmth of life, locked in the cold, inextricable embrace of death. 
               At another time she would have been reminded of the spotless robe of the virgin bride, adorned with gems to greet her bridegroom; for these gorgeous jewels were all too glorious for the dark, narrow house of death. 
               So she returned, drooping with increased sadness, to take her place again by that dear father, upon whom she gazed, until his loved image was engraven indelibly upon the retentant tablets of her heart. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               HELEN, all unconscious of the gloom which overspread her sister's life, was happy in her husband's love; but not without some care of her own, for Arthur's marriage with herself had not been pleasing to his family, who, having other views for him, had not forgiven him for exercising his own taste and judgment in the selection of his wife. They refused to receive sweet Helen as a daughter or sister, or to render Arthur any assistance in his new life; but he had enough to purchase the pretty place they occupied, and was hopeful for the future, notwithstanding the ungracious demeanor of his parents and sister. He had never said anything to Helen concerning the remonstrances of Florida, or the opposition of his parents, and it now grieved her inexpressibly to think that she had been the innocent cause of separating Arthur from his family, for he was so jealous of the meed of respect due to his wife, that he refused to go where she was not admitted. He was confident that the patient goodness and sweetness of Helen would, eventually, triumph over their ill-grounded prejudices, and so he assured her. 
               "Cheer up, Helen," he said; "all will yet be well; and even if it be not as I anticipate, my singing-bird must not droop and pine, and beat its wings against the bars of this pretty cage as if it were a prison-house. My father and mother are good and true, and would only need to be acquainted with your excellence, to induce them to receive you joyfully; but Florida is full of pride, false in its nature, and she has influenced them. But, believe me, wife, it is only for a time that we must remain beneath this ban, tabooed from the society of my home. Take courage, and believe, with me, that all will be well." 
               And she was comforted. The clouds were cleared from her brow, for Arthur must not see her sad, and she sought, by increased devotion, to compensate the husband, more than ever dear, for the sacrifice he had made so cheerfully for her. 
               Their home was about two miles from the city, whither Arthur's business called him every day. He was established in partnership with a gentleman, who, having been engaged in business for many years, had acquired an extensive and lucrative practice, and who, pleased with the industry, talent, and energy of Arthur, augured well for his future prospects of success. Arthur had some friends, who, uninfluenced by the cold reception which Helen had met with from his parents, welcomed her cordially for his sake, and were soon won by her, as friends, for her own sake. 
               Tears of regret for the home she had left,-for her dear father, and her fair, dreamy-eyed sister, would often come to her eyes; but Arthur, who had preferred her to his own kindred, must not see her weep,-so the tears were dried in the bright eyes, and the smile wreathed her lip to welcome his coming. 
               The winter days dragged their weary weight heavily with Zenaida, who saw, day by day, the loved form of her father grow thin, until his pale hand was translucent, his eye become come more intensely, spiritually bright, as if with the reflection from the glory of the invisible world, to which he was so rapidly approaching. His mortal body was so purified by the fire which was consuming him, that, but for the pain he sometimes suffered, she might have fancied him already a denizen of the spirit-land. 
               In his conversations with her, no murmur escaped his lips-no fear of the change that awaited him was expressed; for his soul had already plumed its wings for its final flight, and patiently awaited the signal for departure, the only backward glance of regret cast upon the earth being called forth by the thought that he would never again behold the face of his Helen, and the loneliness in which Zenaida, his devoted child, would be left. 
               "God will reward you, my child," he said fervently, "for your untiring faithfulness to me, and will be thy Father, when thou hast no earthly parent." 
               She sat upon a low seat at his feet, his pale hand clasped in hers, the glow of the departing sunlight resting on her fair head, bowed in the mute awe of grief upon his knee. The eye of the old man was upon the scene spread out beyond the window,-the white earth, tinged with a rosy light, caught from the fiery splendor of the sunset, the hoary trees, through the naked branches of which the wind wailed mournfully, as though they sung the death-anthem for him, the beloved master, who had trained their branches into graceful forms, had pruned them when too luxuriant, and watched with joy the gratitude with which they put forth bright leaves and buds, or strewed his path with flowers, to reward him for his labor, which was one of love. 
                
               The old cedars, the only green thing amid the general desolation, wreathed with snow-flowers, which angel-hands had culled and cast down upon them from the gardens of heaven, here and there put forth a green branch above the waste, like the olive-branch of Noah's dove above the wilderness of waters, typical of hope and life. After his eye had taken in the whole view without, the father looked down with tenderest pity upon the young, sorrow-stricken head before him. 
               "My child," he began, his voice falling so softly, so sweetly upon the hushed air, that Zenaida started as if expecting to see that he was gone, and that the voice was one from the other world; "my child, look out upon this dying day and read the lesson it teaches. The sun is sinking, the sky above, in sorrow for his departure, is clothed with clouds, sombre as those which shadow your heart; but the sun in going leaves behind a light which transmutes these sad vestments into tissues of glowing dyes; so let the memory of my love, when I am gone, illumine the clouds of grief, which now threaten, to overwhelm and blot out all the joy of your heart. I was not destined, like those old cedars, to bear upon my head the snows of many winters; but God is merciful, and my days have not been cut short by the hand of violence, like the oak, uprooted by the hurricane. He has permitted me to die gradually, to feel, day by day, the bonds of clay dividing, and my soul has had time to recover from the first terror of dissolution, to contemplate, with the steady gaze of faith, the bright prospect of its eternal glory." 
               "Dear father," said Zenaida, "I love to listen to you; but you will fatigue yourself too much. Do not talk any more now." 
               "I feel stronger this evening," he replied, "and talking does not appear to tire me, my darling." 
               Again his eye wandered to the out-door world, and brightened as it rested upon each familiar tree and shrub; a smile was upon his lips, his eye kindled with unwonted fire, and from his heart, touched by the rod of death, gushed forth his farewell to earth,- 
                      
                        "I have loved thee, beautiful world; thou'st ever been to me 
                        A nursing mother, gentle, kind, and true; 
                        Thou'st spoken to my heart in every plant and tree- 
                        In the sun's splendor, in the glittering dew. 
                        I've gazed upon thee, when in glory drest, 
                        "Thy clouds did shine like diamond crowns of kings, 
                        When through the empurpled portals of the West 
                        A flush of heaven was cast upon all earthly things. 
                     
                      
                        "I have loved thee, when thy glory was o'ercast; 
                        When all the ripples of thy laughing streams were still 
                        I have loved thee, and will, love thee to the last, 
                        'Till, as thy frozen tides, my bounding pulse is chill; 
                        In the gushing joy of thy glad fragrant spring; 
                        In the lush beauty of sweet summer's prime; 
                        In the bright garbs which autumn angels bring; 
                        In the cold winter's death-like ghastly time; 
                     
                      
                        "In all thy moods arid changes I have loved, 
                        And now, as my soul stands upon the brink 
                        Of the vast, shoreless ocean,-it is moved 
                        By no dim, shuddering fear,-why should I shrink? 
                         
                        Thy beauties are but symbols, shadowy, faint, 
                        Imperfect types of glory unrevealed; 
                        No eye can see, no word, no hand can paint 
                        The splendor by Death's curtain now concealed. 
                     
                      
                        "Within that promised land, the air is sighing 
                        O'er fields in beauty's bloom forever vernal, 
                        And precious fruits, and gorgeous flowers undying 
                        Hang tempting on the tree of Life Eternal. 
                        No serpent lurks in those fair fragrant bowers, 
                        To tempt the unwary heart with words of guile; 
                        No poison-trail is over Love's sweet flowers, 
                        No cloud of sin excludes the Savior's smile. 
                     
                      
                        "Thy harmonies, O Earth, thy sweetest strains 
                        Are but a broken prelude-note; 
                        But the full swell Eternity sustains, 
                        And every tone with rapture-bliss, is fraught; 
                        No jarring discords there disturb the sound; 
                        In one deep tide the Eternal music rolls; 
                        There, only there, no pain, no death is found, 
                        There bathe in pleasure our enfranchised souls. 
                     
                      
                        "My child! thou'lt lift thy love to heaven, where Jesus reigns; 
                        Thou'lt trust in Him who died thy soul to save; 
                        Thou'lt long for that blest hour, when, free from pains, 
                        Through Him thou'lt triumph over death-the grave. 
                        When thou hast stifled in thine anguished heart 
                        Its angry, deep, impassioned moan, 
                        Thou'lt think that we shall meet no more to part, 
                        And learn to say-'Thy will, O God, be done.'" 
                     
                  
                
               The light fades again, the eye loses its unnatural brilliance, the hand relaxes, and falls again softly, tenderly, upon the youthful mourner's head. She has drunk in his words eagerly, and still they vibrate through her heart like melodies from heaven. Who could doubt the peace, the joy of his soul; who could wish to hold him back from that land of glory which was already visible to his spirit-eyes? 
               That night, as Zenaida sat by the bedside, the Angel of Dreams, entering noiselessly, touched her with its sleep-wand. The heavy eyes closed, and the vision, which the midnight visitant had brought, encircled her. It was so vivid, so palpable, that she gazed, holding her breath. She stood near where a broad river mingled its torrents with the ocean; her father was in the current before her, at first gliding near where she stood so that she could reach him with her outstretched arms; then the force of the tide became stronger, and he was borne away, away from her longing eyes, into the ocean beyond, ever, as he looked back, casting upon her that glance of tender pity with which he had looked upon her that evening.  
               Then the scene changed, and she stood with him upon a narrow path, which was skirted with flowers, but ever, as she essayed to pluck them, the blood flowed from her little fingers, pricked by the sharp thorns. While they thus stood, she looked up and saw a large gate slowly unfolding, through which came a spirit-form, which, as it first entered, was so radiant that she veiled her eyes from its sight; but as it left the bright atmosphere behind, which had glanced through the open gate, and approached the spot where they stood expectantly, the glory, which had emanated from its presence, was clouded in the eyes of Zenaida, until scarcely a ray was visible. The spirit-form advanced slowly and reached forth its hand to the old man, who eagerly extended his to meet it. Under the guidance of this messenger he left the side of his daughter, and in silence, unbroken by the slightest sound, approached the gate which swung voluntarily upon its hinges, again revealing a gleam of that glorious light, robed in which was her father's form, as she caught the last glimpse of him. Then, as she was still spell-bound in the spot where he had left her, another presence stood beside her, and taking her hand gently in his own, whispered to her fainting heart,-"Fear not, for I am with thee." As these words fell softly, breathed by the voice of divine love, the angel again touched the white eyelids, dissolving the dreams which it had invoked, to soothe the heart of the weary one. 
               She awoke and bending above her father, caught the sound of his labored breathing. His pulse beat faint and low. Zenaida was alone, in a presence which she felt must be that of death. Dumb with grief, she knelt and clasped the hand of the dying within her own. She had never before watched the breath as it grew fainter and more faint-the blood, as it receded from the extremities, concentrating its little remaining energy in the heart, the citadel of life; but her heart and the dreams of the night whispered that the messenger had come. The hand she held was cold, so cold that the warmth from her own did not affect it. She chafed it and kissed it fondly, and the vital heat returned not; but, the eyes so dear opened, and beamed upon her once more that last light of love; the lips parted in a smile of ineffable sweetness, and moved in prayer or benediction, of which the only words that fell upon her ear were these:-"My children," "Lord Jesus receive my spirit," and then were forever mute. 
               The filmy veil was drawn down which hid forever the light of those loving eyes; the hand, which had been so often placed in benediction on her head was still, oh, merciful Father! so still, and pulseless as the insensible marble; and the spirit, sublimated and refined by suffering, was gone, to try the realties of the unseen world. 
               Zenaida was alone-alone with the image of the loved and lost. No tears came with blessed influence to dissolve her grief, no sob burst from her breast. Her eyes were cold and dry, as if the Angel of Death, in pressing, had breathed with his icy breath upon the fountain of her tears, and congealed them at their source. She closed the eyes from which the soul no longer looked forth; she knelt beside the dead, herself almost as cold, as pale; and there she was found by Aunt Rebecca who sent immediately for some of the neighbors, as soon as she saw that the soul had left its tenement of clay. 
               Mammy, noisy in her lamentations, tried to rouse her poor young lady. 
               "My baby, my pet, my darlin'," she cried; "God have mercy on the poor child. All by herself, and massa gone; honey, don't look so, you'll break your mammy's heart." 
               She took Zenaida gently in her arms, as she had so often done when she was a little child, and lamenting as she went, carried her to her own room, where she placed her on the bed. 
               "Oh, mammy, I am so cold!" she said, with a shudder, closing her eyes as though she strove to shut out the reality of their grief that pressed upon her. 
                
               "Poor baby!" sighed mammy, tenderly enveloping her in warm covering upon which the big tears fell, welled from the depths of her faithful, loving heart. 
               After this, seeing the eyes of Zenaida still closed, she hoped that sleep would come to relieve the sick, wounded spirit and tired frame, and with noiseless step she left the room, to assist in the preparations for the grave that were being made in the apartment below. 
               But the poor girl slept not, nor did insensibility deaden the intense pain in her throbbing head and aching eyes, which could not endure the bright, fresh light of the morning, now that her heart was in darkness. Memory was at work, bringing faithfully back the life-long tenderness, the kind words, the gentle actions of the father who lay so still, so pale; from whose eyes she had seen the light of life go out; from whose lips she had heard the last words ever to be spoken by them. No remorse mingled with this grief to make it yet more bitter, for no undutiful word had ever been uttered by the lips of this holy-hearted girl, no disobedient action had ever been committed by her, who reverenced her father above all earthly beings. Now, as these memories awakened her to a full sense of her desolation, she again saw the mildly beaming eyes, and heard the sweet words of consolation which had fallen upon her in her dream:-"Fear not, for I am with thee," and she felt that it was not the mere phantasm of her imagination, but a real presence, and she was no longer alone. 
               When the heart is encircled by human friends, the ways of approach to it are occupied by them, and they do not give place to the friendly ministers from heaven; but when these are removed, and the poor heart is famishing for the sweet food of love, then these holy visitants come and bring the food divine, of which the one that eateth shall never hunger. 
               The footsteps of those in the chamber of death fell heavily upon the excited ear of Zenaida, and again she moved restlessly, seeking ease for her aching head. 
               Mrs. Cabell, Mrs. Thornley, and many others, hearing the news of her sad bereavement, came, with friendly sympathy, to offer consolation; but she shrank from seeing them, murmuring-"Not to-day; I cannot see them." 
               The long, weary hours passed, and every stroke of the old clock fell, like the deep tolling of the death-bell, upon Zenaida. 
               By her request, her father was to be buried in the corner of the garden, where the weeping-willows waved, where she might feel him always near. 
               In a few words Mr. Thornley presented before those who had assembled to pay the last tribute of respect to the departed friend, his many virtues, his retiring, modest goodness, his firm, unwavering trust in Him who is "the Resurrection and the Life." He contrasted the perishable nature of the earthly, with the undying glory of the spiritual body; the cares, the trials, and sufferings of earth, with the joys and bliss of heaven. 
               "He sleeps in Jesus," he said, pointing to the still form before him; and no one doubted that it was so; for the holy sweetness, which still lingered on the face of the dead, confirmed his assertion. 
               After the dust had been returned to dust, and the silence of the Cottage was no longer broken by the sound of subdued voices and the muffled tread of many feet, the clouds, which had been gathering, dissolved in rain, which beat upon the new-made grave, and tortured the heart of the loving child, who would have sheltered that dear form from the violence of the storm, and wept that she could not. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               DAYS passed, and the reign of Winter was over. The modest violets, with their pretty blue eyes, peered timidly above the ground to reconnoitre; and when they reported that the enemy had deserted the fields, were followed by many of the faint, sweet-scented flowers of early spring. 
               The beautiful iris, of many-colored rainbow dyes, the jonquils, narcissi, and many others, appeared above the moist brown earth, or played at "hide-and-seek" among the tender blades of grass, for the first time unheeded by the sad, drooping, tearful eyes of their young mistress, to whom the spring, in lieu of renewed life and happiness, had brought death and desolation. 
               The grass grew greener day by day, its bright verdure, sprinkled with the pure, white star-flowers, and golden taraxacum; the brook, emancipated from its icy bondage, murmured musically, and laughed in glee, grateful to the Power which had effected its release; the forest-trees budded forth, giving promise of shady retreats in sultry summer-time, except one in the Cottage-yard, which had been the favorite of Mr. Morris,-as it was awakened, it missed the regard of his kindly eye, the touch of his gentle hand, or the sound of his familiar footstep beneath its branches; so it pined and drooped, the eyes of its flowers closed again, and the tree was dead, like him who had nurtured it. 
               The orchard was now in all the glory of its vernal bloom,-the plum-trees, white with the mass of snowy blossoms; the apple-tree, rosy with daintily mingled red and white; the peach, blushing like the cheeks of a young girl: and all the air was murmurous with the hum of bees, which had often lulled the heart of Zenaida with their sweet music. The breezes which came in through the open windows brought many of these flower-leaves, which were laden with sweet messages for Zenaida. They whispered,-"We have been sent to call you forth to take your part in our festival of joy. Linger not; the air is balmy, and beauty and gladness will attend upon your footsteps." But she heard them not, and with a faint, fluttering sigh, they fell at her feet, or were borne back to the outer world. Beauty and gladness, and the brightness of the outer life were not now for her, still shrouded under the pall of death. As she passed them without the loving salutations with which she had been wont to greet them, the flowers raised their bright eyes full of tears; and when some weeds, that had hitherto been excluded with scrupulous care, made their appearance among them, they were in consternation, and wondered at the change which had fallen upon their nurse and protectress. True, she selected some of the most beautiful with which to adorn the last resting-place of her father, which she tended with devotion so untiring, that if the spirit which had animated the dust beneath were cognizant of things here, it must have felt pleasure in the place where its enshrining casket had been hidden; for plants shed upon it the leaves of their brightest flowers; the sound of the running water there fell most softly; the wind sighed plaintively through the waving branches which hung above; there the sod was unpressed by careless feet; and from that holy altar the prayers of his lovely, lonely child ascended to the heaven, where, at God's right hand, they would meet never to be disunited. There the blessing of God descended upon the mourner, and revived and refreshed her drooping spirit, as the dews of heaven the fainting flowers. 
               Mrs. Cabell, by Zenaida's request, had written directly to inform Arthur of the death of Mr. Morris, and from his lips Helen heard the sad tidings, shocking to her-but falling less heavily upon her than upon her sister; for her husband's arm supported her, his loved voice breathed words of comfort and consolation. Helen, too, did not fully realize the loss sustained, as did Zenaida, who had watched the gradual deepening of the shadows until the light of life was wholly eclipsed; neither was she, though loving and kind, susceptible of the deep emotion which shook in every fibre the sensitive spirit of Zenaida. She mourned, but she did not refuse to be comforted. The glad light of her eye, the ringing joyousness of her laughter, the bounding motion of her step were chastened and subdued; but a thousand things distracted her attention, and she was not absorbed in the indulgence of sad thoughts, which, for a time, threatened to overwhelm Zenaida in her solitude. 
               Helen, pitying the loneliness of her sister, wrote, urging her to leave the sad associations of Willowbrook, to make her home with her. Arthur also seconded this petition in a manner so kind as to call forth blessings on him from the heart he touched so deeply. 
               "I will come to you," she wrote in reply, "but not yet. I cannot leave this place, hallowed by so many endearing memories,-these rooms in which I still hear my father's voice and listen for his footstep. I am not afraid to be alone here. The house is haunted, but by a spirit with loving eyes, and tender, pitying smile, who leads me away from the contemplation of death and the grave, and all the sorrows which disturb this fitful dream of life from which it has awakened, and points to the true life beyond the tomb, the infinite glories of which, imagination, in its wildest flight, cannot hope to soar unto. 
               "This little place, my sister, is now partly yours; and far from you be the thought of permitting it to become the property of strangers. Your affections, transplanted from this soil into one more genial, have taken root, and twined themselves around new objects; but this spot is dear to me above all other places on earth; and here, under the protecting shadows of these familiar trees, would I pass my days. You will oppose this fancy, will think that I cannot endure to remain here long with none but servants; but it is not so, and will not be; for the guardian spirits of our lost parents will hover around me, and ward off every danger that may threaten. In communion with them my solitude will be reft of its loneliness. 
               "My heart beats with liveliest gratitude to you and my brother, and that 'God may reward you both for your kindness ness,' is the prayer of the sister who will ever cherish the deepest love for you. My plans I will state more fully, when they are matured for execution." 
               This letter being dispatched, Zenaida, roused from the partial torpor in which her faculties had been merged. She would not be dependent on her brother, or indebted to him for a home, while she was endowed with ability to render herself independent. 
               She felt, too, the necessity, for, some employment that would relieve her from the weight of thought, which sometimes, notwithstanding her resignation, was too painful to be borne. She therefore determined to take charge of a class of pupils, if she could succeed in obtaining it through the influence of Mrs. Cabell and her other friends. Mrs. Cabell, at first, tried to dissuade her from her purpose. 
               "You," she said, pityingly, "are too fragile, too young and sensitive, to encounter alone the storms of life. Why do you not go to your sister?" 
               "The storms, dear lady," replied Zenaida, "will not beat so rudely upon me, or the winds blow go bleakly in this sheltered haven, where my bark now rides; and I know not what strength of endurance, what degree of courage may be developed to meet any emergency that may arise. I cannot go to my sister, for I have, no claim upon Arthur, and I could not, would not consent to live a pensioner upon the bounty even of one so generous and noble as my brother." 
               "I will do all that I can for you, my child," said Mrs. Cabell, "and fear not to call upon me in any trials you may have to endure. Your resolution to be independent is commendable, and I pray that you may succeed, and believe that you will; for fortune favors the brave and you deserve a place in that rank." 
               Zenaida was incited to this exertion of her powers by another motive, which she did not explain to Mrs. Cabell. She wished to be the sole possessor of the quiet, humble place she had so long called home, which, in the matter-of-fact transactions of business, would have weighed lightly in the balance with gold, but to her was more valuable than the treasury of the earth or deep. She could be economical, and, in time, save enough to purchase the moiety of this small estate. 
               Her father had been little troubled by worldly ambition, or the love of gain. He was studious, contemplative, simple in his tastes, and retiring in disposition. In this secluded retreat he had determined to spend the last remaining days of his life; and having food and raiment, he had been content. His protracted illness had absorbed all the money he possessed, and the property left, when divided, would have been a mere pittance. 
               So the resolution of Zenaida was formed, and Mrs. Cabell assisted her to carry her plans into execution. Through her instrumentality scholars were obtained, and by her advocacy of her cause all objections were removed. Mrs. Bainbridge objected to the proposed teacher on account of her youth. 
               "My dear Antoinette," said Mrs. Cabell, "if she is young in years she is old in discretion and knowledge. I assure you, and I know her well, that you may resign Amy to her with implicit confidence, for her mind will be cultivated, her manners refined, and her heart will not be neglected." 
                
               Amy was wild with delight at the prospect of being with her friend, for whom her childish attachment continued unabated; and when the morning arrived upon which a new phase of life was to be entered by Zenaida, the bright child donned her sun-bonnet, hunted up her little book, and, with hearts full of pleasure, danced along the path to the Cottage, into which she came like a bright-plumed singing-bird, bringing the light of heaven in her blue eyes, the melody of birds and rippling waters in her clear laughter, the glory of golden sunlight on her bright, curly head, and the untainted purity of snow-white fragrant flowers, in her young, guileless, and affectionate heart. 
               The heart of Zenaida, ever open to the glad influences of childhood such as this, welcomed this little minister of joy; and much pleasure did she promise herself, in writing lessons of wisdom and holiness upon the white tablets of this unstained immortal soul. 
               "Her task would be an easy one," she thought, "were all her pupils docile as Amy, who drank the cup of varied knowledge eagerly, as the thirsting earth drinks up the welcome rain." 
               The little band of restless, bright-eyed, happy creatures, who now daily gathered round her, presented, before Zenaida study new and interesting. So many minds, and all differing, as their owners did in form and feature! so many hearts, in which it was her privilege to sow good seed, and root out the weeds of evil, which sometimes appeared even in this virgin soil! The lessons she had learned from Nature she imparted to them; and thus loving and being loved, actively employed in training these little human plants, that they might adorn the fair garden of God's earth, instead of repining at the sad solitariness of her lot, she passed the time, while days glided into weeks-spring into summer, with its beaming, intense splendor; summer into autumn, crowned with ripened grains and luscious fruits; autumn into winter, which brought vividly before her the last winter, her long watch by the bed of sickness, and all those sorrows never to be forgotten. Thus musing, her eyes, when a book was held before her by little hands, were often so clouded by the mist of tears that the words were rendered illegible. 
               During all these months, little Amy had been the chosen companion of Zenaida. She walked with her in the forest shades; sat beneath the canopies formed by the dense foliage of wild grape-vines; knelt with her by her father's grave, her young heart subdued by the solemnity of her friend's face, and from her she learned to lisp the prayers which fall so sweetly from the cherub lips of the little child. 
               The sweetest flowers, the rosiest peaches, the brightest apples, the largest bunches of grapes, and the loving kisses from her own balmy mouth, were the offerings she made to her orphan instructress who could not have, loved the fair, gentle child more if she had been her sister. 
               The greatest pleasure Amy enjoyed was when she was permitted to spend Saturday at the Cottage. She would trip, with flying feet, over the house-chirp to the canary-bird-peep into the nests of the little wrens, which were half hidden among the honeysuckles and roses round the windows-would feed the flock of little downy, silken chickens with which "black mammy's" yard was swarmed-run races with Beppo to the brook, into which he would plunge, scattering tering on all sides the fleet of ducks lazily floating upon its surface then, back to the house, almost breathless, to tell the wonders she had seen. Here she would sit upon a low seat, leaning in the lap of Zenaida, watching her fingers as they plied the busy needle, or decorated with gay ribbons a wondrous doll, with rolling eyes and flaxen curls, which Amy thought beyond compare in point of beauty. 
               When the evening came, she would gaze with hushed breath and parted lip upon the clouds, at first baptized in a flood of crimson and golden radiance, gradually melting into rosy pink and yellow so pale as to seem almost colorless, tracing in their masses many forms with which her eye was familiar on earth; then as twilight fell like a veil, rendering indistinct the landscape, she would nestle close to the bosom of Zenaida, awed by the sweet stillness of the hour. As the stars same forth, and she caught their twinkling radiance through the leafy branches of the trees, many were the questions asked and answered concerning those distant worlds of light. 
               "They are so pretty, Cousin 'Naida!" said Amy. "Does God live in the stars?" 
               "Yes, darling," she replied; "God is everywhere." 
               The heart of little Amy, under these holy influences, received the impression of good, which all after-discipline in the fashions and follies of the world would fail to erase. 
               Mrs. Bainbridge was not an unkind or careless mother; but she loved the world and its vanities more than the souls of her children. She was more anxious that her daughters should be admired for their fashionable accomplishments, than for unpretending goodness and incorruptible excellence of moral character. Her aim in raising them was to qualify them to adorn society here, not to prepare them to shine as stars among the redeemed in heaven. 
               Hamilton was the brightest examples of this system, among her children. He could dance in a manner which rendered him most welcome at balls and parties; he could sing and play upon the guitar most bewitchingly; his hands, unstained and unhardened by labor even of the lightest description, were like a girl's, adorned with sparkling diamonds, which be displayed to best advantage. Many of the young ladies called him "a dear love," "a delightful creature;" but in all more manly accomplishments, all knowledge most valuable, he was sadly deficient. Upon points of etiquette and fashions of dress, he was an authority infallible, and of the discussion of themes of this nature he never wearied; but religion, politics, literature, science, and art, bored him to death. He rose late, voted the beauties of a sunrise entirely fabulous, and, in dressing-gown and slippers, (the latter of velvet embroidered in gold, the gift of some admiring juvenile feminine,) lounged idly in an easy chair, puffed leisurely an odorous cigar, and watched, in a mirror before him, the growth and graceful tendency of his mustache. 
               Beatrice was not so inane as her brother. She had some knowledge, but no wisdom-no tact in the application of it; therefore it profited her but little. The other daughter, Alice, had none of the disagreeableness of Hamilton and Beatrice, and was more beloved than either by her father, but not so high in the favor of her mother. Amy, sweet Amy, was the brightest jewel in the parental crown-the pure pearl without flaw or blemish; and, from her beauty, vivacity, and grace, Mrs. Bainbridge augured hopefully a brilliant success in society, a grand moneyed alliance-never dreaming that her plans could be thwarted, that her gorgeous castles, which she was prospectively building, could be leveled in the dust of disappointment. 
               They would leave Maplehurst this winter for L--; but the thought of leaving this sweet, rural retirement, brought no sadness to any of the family, save Amy and Mr. Bainbridge, senior, whose heart died within him at the thought of all the long lines of figures he would have to look over-all the big bills and little bills, which he would be called upon to settle, for this ensuing winter's dissipation and extravagance; but his grief on this subject was silent, for he dared not give it utterance in hearing of his wife or Beatrice, the dictum of these ladies being law. The day appointed for their exodus finally arrived, and the family of Bainbridge, the dutiful, was removed from beautiful Maplehurst, with its wooded lawn, winding footpaths, silvery lakelet, and romantic dells, and transferred to an elegant and spacious mansion in -- street. 
               Zenaida now received another letter from Helen, renewing her former entreaty. 
               "My sister," she wrote, "you will not again refuse to come to me, when I tell you that a new light has dawned upon my life, shed from the day-star of my hopes-the brightest pair of little eyes mine ever looked upon. My baby-boy! how shall I, in the fullness of my heart, find words wherewith I may describe him, the crowning drop in my cup of bliss? I call him 'Henry Morris,' for the father who was so dear in life, whose memory is yet green in my soul-whose name will, I trust, be perpetuated by my boy. 
               "Now, sissy, can you have the heart to resist this great attraction, in addition to the society of Arthur and myself? I think not. My little Henry is now two months old, and is so good, that I know you will love him for his own sweet sake as well as for mine, and for the name he bears. I shall be disappointed if you do not accept this invitation." 
               She could no longer resist, and resolved to go, though with the intention of returning to her home when her visit was concluded. Her preparations being made, she, at last confided the house and garden to mammy, the remainder of the place to Uncle Harry, both of whom were sorely grieved at parting with their "darling." 
               She then visited every place of favorite resort, and at last knelt beside the grave of that dear lost and unforgotten father. The flowers, "nipped in the bud by the frost," were wet with her tears-the marble, which marked the grave and bore the name so fondly cherished by both sisters, was pressed by her quivering lips-an inaudible prayer was breathed in her heart, and, with slow, lingering steps and backward glance, she turned from this hallowed spot, perhaps never to look upon it again, unless in dreams. 
               Under the protection of a gentleman from the neighboring town, she commenced her journey, which was without any incident of interest. At first, every object along the route was noted by her eyes, pleased with novelty; but as they drew near their destination, the heart of Zenaida was busy with memories of the past, the happy past, when the links in their home-chain of love were unsevered by the ruthless hand of death or absence, and that time was contrasted painfully with the present-her father in heaven, her sister and herself changed by the lapse of time, by cares and sorrows which had broken up the thornless pathway of flowers they formerly had trod, and strewed it o'er with thorns. But even as she thus thought, she reproached herself; for if she had had some sorrows, she had also many joys, many blessings, for which she was not ungrateful. 
               At last she stood before her sister's door; in her agitation at the thought of seeing her, casting only a hasty glance around upon the pretty yard, the pointed arches, and irregular corners of the house. She inquired for Mrs. Bernard, without announcing her own name; and, with beating heart and quickened pulse, awaited the entrance of her sister. 
               She came, and Zenaida beheld the same beautiful Helen that she so loved to look upon, but more stately in her manner. She advanced gracefully to salute, as she thought, some stranger or acquaintance, when the veil was thrown aside, revealing the face of her sister. She sprang forward with a cry of joy, and clasped her closely in her embrace; but as she felt the trembling of the form she held, the thought of the father who stood beside them when they last embraced, now never to be seen by her again, came over her, and the smiles were changed to tears. 
               Soon with reviving brightness she led the way to her own room, and, with a look of pride mingled with deepest love, drew aside the curtain, which concealed the sleeping form of little Henry. 
               "Here, sissy, is my baby. I must introduce you to him," she said, smiling; "for your visit is made to him; all the entreaties of Arthur and myself having proved unavailing, until we lured you hither by promising you a sight of this baby-beauty. I know you will not think it a mother's partiality only that sees beauty in that face." 
               The boy, whose dark, glossy hair, clear complexion, and regular features were the miniature of his mother, was sweetly sleeping; a bright smile sometimes curling his rosy lips and dimpling his cheeks while these two sisters, with arms intertwined, gazed upon him-the one with heart stirred to its inmost depths by all the holy, self-sacrificing devotion of the mother's love; the other lost in admiration of his beauty, almost holding her breath, lest, the sound of it might dissolve the spell of blissful dreams which wrapped the little sleeper, or drive away the guardian spirits who hovered over him, and soothed his slumbers with whispered melodies. 
               While they thus stood, the dark-fringed lids which veiled his soft, bright eyes, were raised, disclosing their loveliness, and awakening fresh admiration in the heart of Zenaida. These pretty eyes wandered at first, but finally settled upon his mother's face, which he recognized with a smile, holding out his hands to her. Helen raised him, tenderly, presented his soft lips to Zenaida for her first kiss, and then sat down with this treasure clasped closely in her arms to listen to the narration of all that had befallen Zenaida during the period of their separation. This recital she often interrupted with tearful remonstrances. 
               "Why did you stay at the Cottage, my little sister," she said, "all this long, weary time, when my house and heart were open to receive you? You taught school with the hope of making enough to purchase my portion of our little property, did you? Poor child! Our father left me protected from poverty and labor by the manly arm of my noble husband, and had he made a will, would no doubt have left Willowbrook to you; and, with Arthur's approbation, I will renounce all my claims upon it in your favor." 
               "You are too kind, too generous," sobbed Zenaida. 
               "Do you for one moment think," responded Helen, "that I or Arthur would receive from you money earned by the weariness of your fragile frame, the dimming of your sweet eyes, and the bowing of your fair head? Nay, my sister, you judged us coldly, by a worldly standard, by which our deeds are not always measured." 
               "Forgive me, Helen," said Zenaida, overcome by her kind vehemence. 
               "Come, little sis," said Helen, cheerfully, "dry your eyes, and take Henry while I change my dress, and prepare to receive Arthur, who will soon be here." 
               "You cannot imagine," she continued, "how he has improved, how handsome he is, how very, very kind!" her voice quivered with emotion. "But," she concluded, laughing, and pointing to Harry, who reclined peacefully in the arms of his new-found aunt, "that child has entirely eclipsed me in his regard, for he is Arthur's idol." 
               "Brother Arthur," Zenaida answered, "was always sufficiently handsome, and if he has improved so much, I shall be completely overwhelmed at the sight of so perfect a model of manly grace and beauty. But I will make all due allowance for the partial eyes with which you behold him, and shall expect to see him more dignified in manner, more abundantly be-whiskered, but handsomer only in your eyes." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               WHEN Arthur came, his welcome to Zenaida was most cordial and brother-like, and she acknowledged that Helen was right when she said that he was improved, and well might she be proud of him. 
               His generous, kind heart, beamed forth in the joyous light of his laughing, dark eyes; and the pleasant smile which often parted his lips, disclosed to view teeth almost incredibly white. His manner was dignified, but not entirely divested of the frank impetuosity of earlier years; his brow was unruffled, for he never permitted the cares of business to darken the light of his happy home, where he basked in the sunshine of love. 
               There are many homes, where, upon entrance, a chill strikes the heart and benumbs the warmest affections; but this home was not one of these. Its influence was genial and grateful as the balmiest airs of fragrant spring, and under it the frozen heart thawed and expanded. 
               On this evening, Arthur was ensconced before the cheerful fire, at one time trying to call forth a smile upon the face of little Henry, then making many kind inquiries of Zenaida, concerning everything and everybody at the Cottage, laughingly reminding Helen of their old trysting-places, the incidents of their acquaintance, and courtship; delighted if he could succeed in mantling her cheek with a rosy blush. 
               "Helen," he said, "has never given up the pretty girlish habit of blushing, and I am glad she has not, for we gentlemen all admire blushes very much. I think they are very becoming to Helen; have always thought so since I first saw her at Cabell Manor." 
               "How do you like our home?" he said, turning to Zenaida. "I am sorry that you see it for the first time in winter; for now its aspect is not most inviting, and I do not wish you to be drawing invidious comparisons between Willowbrook and this dulce domum of mine." 
               "I am not prepared to draw comparisons, or pass judgment on this 'dulce domum,'" she replied, "for I have not yet seen it, I have been so engrossed with Harry, Helen, and yourself." 
               "You are a wise girl," said Arthur; "for I flatter myself that we are much more worthy of attention and observation than any pile of bricks and mortar. By-the-way, Helen," he continued, as if a bright thought had struck him, "you and I must enter into a conspiracy to prevent the return of our little sister to the single-blessedness of life at Willowbrook. Let me see if I cannot, among all my acquaintances, find one that will be able to captivate her fancy. There's Paul Anderson; even you, Helen, allow him to be almost as good-looking as myself-and he is a clever fellow. You shake your head at Paul! Well, I must think again. Frank Churchill? What say you? Dissipated? Well, so he is, and I would not trust our sister to him, talented as he undoubtedly is. There's Bruce Wilson," he continued, raising his head, and relaxing into a smile; "I always feel amused when I think of him, he is so comical; but he will not answer the present purpose. Helen, help me out, for I cannot think of any one just now, though I know scores of young men." 
               "Now, brother," interposed Zenaida, laughing at his perplexity, "I protest against your taxing your brain and Helen's with the effort to find one who will be able to steal away my heart, perhaps, without giving me one in return; for I am content with my lot, and were I to change, it might be for worse instead of better." 
               "Fair skeptic," replied Arthur, "I have no fear that you will find it difficult to win hearts in return for the one you have to give; and I intend to use my utmost endeavors to prevent the odious epithet 'old maid,' from being attached to the fair Zenaida Morris." 
               "Your epithet, brother," she replied, "would be much more agreeable to the ears of most ladies; but to me, there is no odium properly attached to the term 'old maid,' which you speak with so scornful a curl of the lip. I am an ardent admirer of the heroic element in human character, and, to my mind, there is something of the sublimity of moral heroism in the self-abnegation of the life of a reviled 'old maid,' devoting her time, her talents, to the service of the ungrateful, who repay her kindness by reproaching her with her old-maidism. Instead of being persons to be pointed at by the finger of scorn, there are many, in the ranks of single women, of whom the world is not worthy." 
               "There, stop, I beseech you!" exclaimed Arthur; "you really frighten me by your eloquent advocacy of a class most truly obnoxious. I divide the class into two genera-the voluntary old maid, and the one from necessity. The first amuse themselves petting cats, dogs, birds, and other people's children; the latter derive their chief pleasure from inflicting tortures, more ingenious than those of the Grand Inquisition, upon these same animals." 
               "Oh, brother!" said Zenaida, laughing; "you ought to be prosecuted for slander. I believe I will spend the remainder of my days at Willowbrook alone, that I may give you an example that will refute all this heresy of yours." 
               "I have at last thought of one, who can change this resolution," he said, triumphantly; "why could I not think of him at first?" 
               "Who is it?" inquired Helen, while Zenaida listened attentively for the answer to her query. 
               "Allan Elliott," he replied. 
               "Allan Elliott!" echoed, Zenaida; "that is a pretty, musical name; but what have you to say in favor of him?" 
               "I will say nothing," he replied, "for I cannot hope to do justice to his incomparable attractions. You must judge for yourself; but I warn you to guard your heart if you do not wish to lose it." 
               "Forewarned, forearmed," she laughed; "never fear, brother Arthur." 
               "Allan I do not know," said Helen; "I have seen him, and have heard him highly commended by some of my friends." 
               Here the conversation ended for the night; Zenaida retiring early on account of her fatigue after traveling. 
               "This," said Helen, opening a door and ushering her into a pretty room, where every article of furniture reflected the dancing fire-light, "is your room, which has been prepared for your reception, and has awaited your coming almost despairingly, as I have done for many months." 
                
               "You are very, very kind," murmured Zenaida, brushing the gathering moisture from her eyes, that she might survey the various appointments of the room; "it is a very nice room, much prettier than our old apartment at Willowbrook; but I think it will take some time to make me love it as well; though I love it already, because your dear hand has arranged it, and all for me." 
               "Come, sis, don't think of anything too solemn to-night," said Helen; "whatever you dream will certainly come to pass; and that Arthur's predictions may be verified, you must dream of Allan Elliott." 
               She imprinted a kiss, her good-night salutation, upon the brow of Zenaida, and, as she closed the door, laughingly said, "Do not forget to dream according to directions." 
               Deeply grateful for the kindness with which she had been welcomed, and the care, which had prepared everything for her comfort that she could wish, Zenaida bowed her fair head in prayer, calling down the blessings of Heaven upon the loving brother and sister with whom she had that day been united. 
               Castle-building in imagination was one of her pastimes, and, that night, visions of the future which might await her rose before her, and in her ears rang the name of Allan Elliott. She sought to escape from the pursuing sound by falling asleep; but, in dreams, spirit-voices still whispered the magic name. In the morning she smiled at the haunting visions of the night; but when Helen asked "If she had obeyed her instructions about dreaming?" she blushed so, that she was convinced she had. 
               Arthur left for the city immediately after breakfast, and Zenaida roamed over the house, yard, and garden, admiring the simplicity and perfect neatness with which everything was arranged. The day passed pleasantly. They were interrupted by no visitors, and had leisure to talk of many things, which had been forgotten the previous day. 
               Zenaida never wearied of the contemplation of the beautiful baby-in his peaceful sleep, or waking smiles; and when Arthur returned at night, she was surprised, the hours had slipped away so unconsciously. 
               "Well, Zenaida," he began, while they were seated at supper, "I have to-day seen all those young gentlemen of whom I spoke last night, except Allan Elliott, and it is with deep regret that I communicate the intelligence gained concerning him." 
               "Is he going to be married?" she inquired; "you know 'the best-laid plans of mice and men,' are apt to be frustrated by the intervention of some unforeseen circumstance. I condole with you, brother, upon your disappointment." 
               "Like every woman," said Arthur, smiling, "you have jumped at your conclusions, which are founded upon a mere hypothesis. Allan is not about to join the ranks of married men; but I have to tell you that he is absent from the city, and I could not ascertain the time appointed for his return." 
               "Is that all?" she said. "You opened the parley with a flourish of trumpets, that would not have disgraced the incomparable Anthony Van Corlear; and I was certain that you had some direful intelligence wherewith you might distress me." 
               "Until his return," said Arthur, "I must tax my ingenuity nuity to keep you in fine spirits. Perhaps I may find some coadjutor who will serve as Elliott's substitute, though 'you must walk in maiden meditation, fancy-free,' until you see him." 
               "I am so sorry to cause you such trouble," said Zenaida, with assumed seriousness, "that I will be compelled to release you by returning to Willowbrook." 
               "I veto that proposition most decidedly," replied Arthur; "but have no fear that I shall hear the repetition of that threat, after you have seen Allan." 
                
               The ground being now covered with snow, many sleighs daily passed Hawthornden; and, one evening, a dashing vehicle of this description, adorned with many bells, the merry sound of which pealed forth clearly, on the frosty air, and drawn by a pair of spirited black horses, was driven up to the gate, and from it alighted Messrs. Paul Anderson and Bruce Wilson. 
               They had learned from Arthur that Mrs. Bernard's sister, the beautiful Miss Morris, was now with them, and, at the instigation of Bruce, they drove out that they might behold and judge of this beauty. Both being well acquainted with Helen, without hesitation they walked up the graveled path, knocked, and were admitted into the parlor, where the glowing coal-fire contrasted pleasantly with the bleak cold without. 
               While they were waiting for the entrance of the ladies, Bruce leisurely surveyed everything the apartment contained, and, turning to Paul, exclaimed- 
               "By Jupiter, Saul, my boy! our friend Bernard is a lucky dog, with a snug home like this, and a wife beautiful as the Houris of Mahomet's Paradise-worth half a dozen of the artificial beauties of our metropolis, although she brought him no fortune but her own fair self. If her sister is as charming as she, I shall be almost tempted to forswear, for her sake, all the delights of a bachelor's life." 
               "Take care, Bruce," said Paul, admonitorily, "or you will be haltered for life ere you are aware; and then farewell to bachelor's clubs, champagne parties, billiards, et id omne genus; for these angels, when once they assume the guardianship of a man, are more strict than the straitest-laced old uncle or guardian, or governor of any kind alive." 
               "Well," replied Bruce, "I am perfectly resigned to my fate; and that, you know, compels me to worship every pretty face I see; but, my dear fellow, subside into a state of imperturbable quiescence, for I hear the light footsteps of Mrs. Bernard approaching. If the beautiful sister be with her, prepare, for her benefit, your most killing bow-so;" and, suiting the action to the word, he was bowing gracefully to the door, when Helen opened it and entered. 
               He was never confused, or at a loss for words. He saw the smile upon Helen's face, and knew that it was called forth by her having caught him practicing bowing at a mark; but he advanced to meet her, exclaiming- 
               "Fairest and most gracious of ladies, behold your most obedient, humble servant. Think not, I beseech you, that I was converting your house into a gymnasium, which thought might be justified by my action just as you were entering. My friend Paul here, is,you know, sadly deficient in all graceful accomplishments, and I was giving him practical instruction, that he might greet you with a reverence worthy of your fair ladyship." 
               "No apology is necessary, Mr. Wilson," said Helen, laughing; "your reverence was perfectly satisfactory to myself-more so than the explanation can be to Mr. Anderson." 
               With this remark,, she turned to greet Paul, or Saul, as Bruce usually called him. 
               Zenaida soon appeared; her deep-mourning dress making her fair face still more fair by contrast. Her cheeks glowed with rosy freshness, her blue eyes sparkled, and Bruce thought "she is very pretty, but not so brilliantly beautiful as Mrs. B--." 
               At first she was shy, as in olden days; but Bruce was not abashed by her reserve, and determined to conquer it; so while Paul conversed with Helen, he told her anecdotes; gave her an account of an upset in a snow-bank which he had given Paul as they were coming out, when Paul thought he was killed; and in laughing at his comicalities, her timidity soon vanished. His gayety was infectious, and they chatted so merrily and amicably, that when they rose to go, Bruce was so pleased with the "little soft-eyed beauty," as he afterwards denominated her, that he could not repress this exclamation:- 
               "Miss Morris, if our acquaintance were not of so very recent a date, I would ask you to take a sleigh-ride with me while this snow lasts. To my ear, the tintinnabulation of the sleigh-bells is the most exhilarating music in the world. I would like you to enjoy this mimic chime of mine." 
                
               "But you might upset me in a snow-drift, as you did Mr. Anderson," she replied, archly; "and if that were the case, I fear the musical chime of your mimic bells would be wasted upon an unappreciative listener." 
               "Heaven forbid!" ejaculated Bruce, fervently; "I owed Paul that tumble in the snow, for a practical joke he played upon me not long since; but, when I have the pleasure of driving you, I will guide my horses with all the skill I can command." 
               "I believe you," she replied. 
               "And will you 'show your faith by your works;' will you trust me?" he inquired. 
               "The only way to prove a person's trustworthiness is by reposing confidence in him," she replied. 
               "That is equivalent to a direct affirmative," said Bruce, joyfully. 
                
               After they left Hawthornden, Bruce was in such raptures, that Paul could not gain his attention in any way; but was constrained to listen with a show of patience to his praises of Zenaida. 
               "Saulus, my dear Fellow," he began, "I went to Hawthornden the happy possessor of a heart I could call my own; and now, alas! I have none, it having surrendered at discretion to that sweet, brown-haired, blue-eyed, bewitching little fairy. She was at first shy as a wood-pigeon; but that only rendered her more charming." 
               "For sweet pity's sake, Bruce," sighed Paul, "do not compel me, nolens volens, to listen to these rhapsodies; and have mercy on Miss Morris. Do not overwhelm her, pretty as she is, with such a flood of epithets; but economize your breath and words, or you will have none left wherewith to address this little divinity whom you have so suddenly elevated upon the altar of your most susceptible of all hearts." 
               "Deuce take me!" replied Bruce, "if I don't think you had better practice what you preach; for your speech is longer than mine. But I am glad that you are not disposed to go into the seraphics, about 'la belle Morris;' for I am rid of a dangerous rival without the trouble of shooting him, or unhorsing him; if you decline to enter the lists to compete for this fair prize." 
               "By-the-way, Bruce!" exclaimed Paul, "what has become of all the other fair demoiselles to whom you have vowed eternal fidelity-Katy Lorrimer, Sue Brownley, Irene Miller, and so on ad infinitum? Are they all eclipsed by the superior radiance of this new light, that has just dawned upon you?" 
               "Katy is to be married soon," replied Bruce. "Sue I loved much, the Miller more; but the Morris I love most- 
                      
                        'Oh! there's nothing half so sweet in life, 
                        As Love's young dream,'" 
                     
                   he sung; "you may take my word for it, callous-hearted creature that you are, Paul." 
               "Angels and ministers of grace defend you!" said Paul; "your heart is like Althea's brand; or rather like the liver of Prometheus, devoured by this vulture you denominate Love, but growing out again while its beak is still whetted upon it. But here we are at last in the city, and most heartily do I congratulate Paul Anderson, Esq., on being, for a short time, free from the rhapsodies of the love-lorn swain, Bruce Wilson. I have an unpostponable engagement which compels me to say adieu." 
               With a mock reverence Paul walked off, leaving Bruce to his meditations. 
               "I have some engagements, too," he said, consulting his tablets. "'But what's this dull town to me,' when the Morris is in the country?" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               "WELL, Zenaida," said Arthur when he had received an account of the evening's visit, "were you fascinated by the handsome face of Paul, or the comicalities of Bruce?" 
               "By neither," she replied; "I am obeying you, reserving my heart, and fortifying it, in the mean while, for the attack upon it which you anticipate from the skillful tactician, Mr. Elliott." 
               "So," said Arthur, "Allan will find the citadel with portcullis down, sentinels on the ramparts, every loop-hole bristling with formidable weapons for defence and the occupant prepared for a long siege? Useless precautions, for he will carry the fortress by assault?" 
               "From your confident vaticinations, brother mine, I begin to fear that you are a soothsayer, endowed with the faculty of foretelling events which are now concealed in the arcana of the future. Helen," she called to her sister, "did you know you had married a wizard? He is here prophesying with the assurance of the Delphian Oracle!" 
               "Well," replied Helen, "he is always the prophet of good, not of evil." 
               Zenaida shook her head doubtingly. 
               "I," said Arthur, "I tell you the truth; but you are like the Trojans, who refused to listen to the prophesies of Cassandra." 
               "Here, Zenaida," he said again, after a pause, "is a book I brought from town; I had forgotten it; I wish you would take it and read it aloud." 
               "I will do so with pleasure," she replied. 
                
               Several days passed, and Zenaida had forgotten Bruce Wilson's expression of a desire to take her sleighing, when, lo! his handsome sleigh and glossy black horses arrived, and Bruce presented himself before Helen, who sat in the parlor. Without circumlocution, he made known the object of his visit. 
               "Come, sis," said Helen, with a merry twinkle in her eyes, as she entered the room where Zenaida sat; "don your cloak, bonnet, and furs, and prepare for a sleigh-ride with Bruce Wilson. He is, or appears to be, impatient to be off; so do not keep him in suspense." 
               "I hope he will not be the unintentional cause of a dislocation of my neck," said Zenaida. "Are his horses very wild?" she continued, looking out of the window at the beautiful creatures, which were tossing their heads so that Marcus, the black boy, could scarcely hold them. 
               "Wild as Arabs of the desert, and fleet and spirited as the heaven-born coursers of Achilles," replied Helen; "but Bruce has them completely under his control, though they spurn the guidance of others." 
               The day was beautifully clear, the air keen and bracing, the sunlight reflected joyously by the diamond-dust of the snow. Bruce was in fine spirits; Zenaida admired the beauty, the graceful pride which arched the necks of the horses, and lifted their feet as if they disdained the common earth. They danced merrily to the gay tinking of the bells, and seemed as if they were trying to call forth encomiums from the fair lady they carried. 
               Bruce listened, with pleasure sparkling in his laughing, brown eyes, to the praises, so well merited, bestowed on his pets, which delighted him almost as much as they would have done had he been the subject of her commendations. He gazed with admiration upon the face of his fair companion, so animated as to be nearly divested of the mournful sweetness which usually characterized its expression. 
               "Anderson would not laugh at my raptures could he see her now!" he mentally exclaimed; "for the light, which beams upon me from the heaven of those blue eyes, is sufficient to melt even his obdurate heart." 
               "Miss Morris, he said, at parting, "you have placed me under everlasting obligations, by so kindly consenting to risk your life with my wild self, and wilder horses." 
               "There was no risk," laughed Zenaida; "for my charioteer was more skillful than Phaton, and I knew we would keep the right course. It is you who have conferred pleasure upon me, by giving me a ride so delightful." 
                
               After his return to the city, Bruce met Paul Anderson, and saluted him with-"Saulus, my boy, I am on the very pinnacle of bliss!" 
               "What's the matter now?" said Paul. 
               "I have this day enjoyed the felicity of sitting by the side of the beautiful Miss Morris, during a sleigh-ride; and, upon honor, I declare that her voice is more musical than the softest murmur of the wind over an olian harp-her eyes more blue than the deep-blue vault of heaven, and dancing with the light of joy, as the streamlet in the sunshine of spring-her cheeks like translucent pearl, through which the color gleams with a rosy glow-her mouth like the newly-opened rose-bud, with the dewy-freshness of morning still upon it-her breath more fragrant than the south wind, which has passed over a bed of violets!" 
               "Well!" whistled Paul, drawing a long breath; "the stock of simile and hyperbole is, I hope, at last exhausted! Oh, what a dire misfortune it is for a man to be the repository of the love-secrets of another! I am," he continued, rising and drawing on his gloves, "going down street. Shall I call and consult your physician? But it would be useless, for 'who can minister to the mind diseased?' The only remedy for this Morris-mania, with which you are so terribly afflicted, is in the possession of the young lady herself-'Similia similibus curantur!' She has infused this sweet, destructive poison-she must administer the antidote. Have you made a favorable impression on her heart, think you?" 
               "Don't know," replied Bruce, dubiously; "have been so busy falling in love myself, that I have not stopped to consider whether she has followed my example. Will watch her closely next time. Dog on it, Paul!" he continued, after having relapsed into a silence of several minutes' duration, "why did you, like an evil genius, dash from my lips the cup of bliss from which I was quaffing ambrosial nectar of the gods? But, for vengeance' sake, I will follow you as closely as the Old Man of the Sea did Sinbad the Sailor. You are going to walk, so will I. Only wait till I have finished this cigar, the fumes of which are more odorous than all the spices of Araby the blest, or the breezes that blow from the cinnamon-groves o'er the island of Ceylon!" 
               The cigar disposed of, he walked up to a large mirror, arranged the masses of his luxuriant hair, smiled complacently at the reflected image; but he was not just now in the humor to gaze upon this semblance of himself until, Narcissus-like, he died for the sake of his own dear loveliness; so he turned away, remarking to himself-"Mr. Wilson, you are quite a handsome individual, and I am afraid you work a great deal of mischief with those wicked brown eyes of yours!" 
               "Bruce," interrupted Paul, impatiently, "with your love and your vanity, you are enough to try the patience of Job!" 
               "Instead of scolding me," replied Bruce, "you ought to be deeply indebted to me for practicing you in the Christian virtue of patience; but, come on." 
               They sauntered leisurely along, and had not proceeded far, when Paul descried two ladies approaching, one of whom he recognized as Miss Beatrice Bainbridge; the other was Miss Lorrimer, the quondam ladye-love of Bruce. 
               Paul was quite a favorite with Miss Bainbridge, who pronounced him "so aristocratic;" then "that haughty look and slightly scornful curl of his lip, more finely chiseled than the most exquisite piece of sculptures, were so becoming;" and, as she passed, Beatrice cast upon him a look of tender reproach, for Paul's visits to her had of late been, "like angel's visits, few and far between." 
               Had the lady been aware that the "haughty look and scornful smile" were assumed in honor of her own fair self, her admiration of their becomingness and beauty would have suffered considerable diminution; but 
                      
                        "Where ignorance is bliss, 
                        'Tis folly to be wise:" 
                     
                   so she sailed on with unimpaired self-satisfaction, thinking that, by that reproachful, well-timed glance from her bewildering eyes, she had brought back her recreant knight to his former allegiance. She did not doubt that she had once led him captive. 
               "Who is she, Paul?" inquired Bruce, when the ladies were at some distance. "You ought to feel proud of a loving look like that, cast from such a pair of liquid Italian eyes as hers." 
               "Plague take the woman!" muttered Paul. "She is so blinded by her vanity, that she imagines I am in love with her, or, at least, that I was once. I used to amuse myself with her absurdities; but they have long since lost the charm of novelty, the only charm they ever possessed, and now she is utterly unendurable." 
               "Hem!" ejaculated Bruce; "strong language, very. Think from it that you must have some particular cause for your aversion to this most gracious princess. Perhaps the cynicism of my friend has been superinduced by his acquaintance with this fair authoress of his 'Rejected Addresses.' Who knows?" 
               "Don't be absurd, Bruce!" said Paul, loftily. 
               "I have never been able to account for his seeming indifference to the attractions of beauty; but a supposed case, founded upon his rejection by this lady, makes his indifference a natural consequent, no longer difficult to be accounted for," continued Bruce, soliloquizing audibly. 
               "Bruce," said Paul, almost angrily, facing about, "enough of this nonsense, which I would not tolerate for an instant from any one but you." 
               "Thank you, for your kind consideration," replied Bruce. "Tolerance is another virtue, for the practice of which you are indebted to me." Then looking up, he exclaimed-"Why, Saulus, I verily believe you were suffering your angry passions to rise, for the flush has not yet died out of your face!" 
               "Nonsense! Your imagination is entirely too fertile," said Paul, a smile breaking through as he spoke, and dispelling the clouds that, for a moment, had lowered threateningly over his handsome face. 
               "Ah!" said Bruce, "fair weather again. Now I renew a train of thought which was broken by this little flurry of passion; for my friend Paul has his 'little tempers,' like Parson Dale's wife. My old sweetheart, Katy Lorrimer, looked so pretty just now, that I almost envied Harold Melville her fair hand. Were not her cheeks rosy, though?" 
               "Paint," said Paul. 
               "I'll sue you for slander, libeler of the fair sex, that you are!" exclaimed Bruce, brandishing his cane in demonstration of his warlike propensity; but Paul smiled, as if he were perfectly justifiable in his assertion, and defied Bruce to bring proof to controvert it. This he did not attempt, but resumed- 
               "You will not deny that her glossy, raven curls are beautiful, will you?" 
               "Her hair is naturally red," replied the imperturbable Paul; "but Art has lent its assistance to Nature, and has, by its magic, transmuted the unsightly red into raven black. She does not labor under the natural inability of the leopard in regard to its spots." 
               "Say no more an' ye love me!" entreated Bruce, with mock distress. "Harold Melville, is welcome to her. My philosophy will not desert me under these trying circumstances, 
                      
                        'For this is man's philosophy, 
                        When woman is untrue, 
                        The loss of one but teaches him 
                        To make another do,' 
                     
                   and the pedestal from which the image of Kate has been ruthlessly displaced is already graced by the fair Zenaida Morris, who is more lovely than the visions that haunted the dreams of Xeuxis, Protogenes, Phidias, Praxiteles, or Hiram Powers!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               SEVERAL days later Arthur brought home tickets to a concert to be given at -- Hall. 
               "Helen," he said, "you and Zenaida must both go, as Madame -- is to sing. There will also be some fine instrumental performances, and I know Zenaida will enjoy them. You can take Harry, and leave him with our friend Mrs. Bankhead, if you are afraid to trust him with Aunt Juno. Now, Zenaida," he continued, "prepare to hear some news." 
               "What is it?" she inquired, looking up from the book she was reading. "Have Bruce Wilson's wild horses broken his neck, or is it something concerning our old neighbors, the Bainbridges?" 
               "You will have to guess again," he replied; "but I hardly expected that your first inquiry would be for Bruce. Has the good-humored mad-cap made an impression on your heart? If so, it will be useless for me to communicate my piece of intelligence." 
               "I assure you he has not," she answered. "But do not keep me longer in suspense, or you will excite the curiosity which you gentlemen say appertains exclusively to the feminine organization." 
               "It does," replied Arthur, "and has been hereditary in you ever since the days of Mother Eve." 
               "That is a mere dogmatical assertion," responded Zenaida. "Now for the news from your city which can have power to interest me, a stranger to its inhabitants." 
               "Listen, then," commenced Arthur, with such an air of mystery that her attention was thoroughly aroused. "Do you remember that exquisite little note which you wrote, and sent to me by Marcus, asking me to favor you by bringing some articles, like samples inclosed, wherewith you might finish a dress you were embroidering for Harry?" 
               Zenaida nodded assent. 
               "Well," continued Arthur, "that little note, written with all the beautiful accuracy and elegance characteristic of the penmanship of Miss Zenaida Morris, who, in this accomplishment is surpassed by few, as I have before had occasion to remark-" 
               "For pity's sake, brother," interrupted Zenaida, "do not tantalize me so unmercifully! What became of the note?" 
               "That is just what I was about to tell you," he replied. "Where was I when you interrupted me? Oh! I recollect. Well, as I said, that note was lying open on my office-table, and,"-here he paused for a moment, glancing mischievously at the face of Zenaida, who sat perfectly calm, as if she despaired of ever hearing the conclusion of Arthur's story,-"as it was there, some one came in, and took a seat by the table near the open note. His eye fell upon it immediately, and as if fascinated by the beautiful regularity of the characters, he raised it up; but just then catching my eye, as I looked at him, he blushed, and apologized, saying, 'I did not intend to read the contents, but was so attracted by the artistic beauty of the penmanship, that I wished to examine the superscription more closely.' 'Oh!' said I, 'you may scrutinize the contents, if you please, as it contains no secrets.' He thanked me, and, availing himself of the privilege granted, read it, apparently with delight. 'Zenaida Morris!' he said, musingly. 'That is an unfamiliar name. Who is she?' 'My wife's sister,' I replied. 'If character can be estimated by the chirography, hers must be faultless.' 'It is,' I responded. After many more queries and answers, he left, having first expressed a desire to become acquainted with you; which desire I hope you will gratify. Now, would you not like to know who he was?" 
               "Certainly," replied Zenaida; "but I do not expect to ascertain that fact this evening, as it pleases you to be more than usually mysterious and tantalizing; I shall make no more entreaties." 
               "It was Allan Elliott." 
               "I am truly glad that he has at last made his appearance," said Zenaida, "for I had begun to think he was a myth, the unsubstantial creation of your fertile imagination, which is always conjuring up something, with which you endeavor to disturb my equanimity." 
               "He is a living, breathing, fascinating reality, and no phantom formed of 'the stuff which dreams are made of,' as you will see ere long," replied Arthur. 
                
               The next evening the concert was to be, and Helen and Zenaida went to spend the afternoon with Mrs. Bankhead, who, having no children of her own, was delighted at the thought of enjoying without interruption the society of sweet baby Harry. When Helen saw him folded tenderly to the bosom of that mother, over whose offspring the cold, relentless less grave had closed, she felt that she could leave him with perfect security. 
               Mrs. Bankhead welcomed Zenaida very kindly; for Arthur and Helen were favorites with her, and being the sister of Helen would have been sufficient recommendation to her, independent of the sweet modesty and engaging prettiness of the young girl herself. 
               Bruce Wilson had determined to go out to Hawthornden and offer his services as escort to Zenaida; but he met Arthur, who informed him that the ladies were in the city, at Mrs. Bankhead's. He then told Arthur "that he would call at his office, and go with him to that lady's house, provided he might have the pleasure of going with Miss Morris to the concert." 
               "Do so," said Arthur. "Zenaida has no engagement, and will, no doubt, be pleased to go with you." 
               So it was arranged; and, at the appointed time, the two gentlemen reached Mrs. Bankhead's. 
               "Take a seat, Bruce," said Arthur. "We'll have to wait some time, I suppose; for who ever knew a woman, to be ready at the right time?" 
               "You will be agreeably disappointed this time," said Helen; "for we are both ready, and have been waiting for you." 
               "The biggest bell in town ought to be tolled, to notify the citizens of this remarkable fact," said Arthur. 
               After a walk of a few minutes they arrived at the Hall, secured their seats, which were well chosen, and, for the first time, Zenaida looked upon an audience in the city of --. Some persons among the crowd were not unknown to her. Mrs. Ridgely, splendidly attired, her jewels gleaming brilliantly in the gas-light, first attracted her notice. She looked earnestly at her, hoping to see the expression of her face less haughty, the scornful flashing of her eyes softened and subdued; but the old-remembered light, shone in them more intense, more cold than formerly, and she moved with imperious air, as though she were a queen among her subjects. She was not happy; but was too proud to acknowledge that she was miserable. 
               With all the fervor of which her selfish, worldly heart was capable, had she loved Lawrence Ridgely, and when the unwelcome truth dawned upon her, that the broad acres of Cabell Manor, and the gold with which she was so richly dowered, had been the magnets of attraction for him, then, with that knowledge came misery. The chains which bound her were not to be broken. They were not the soft, silken bands, or the golden links of the chain of love, but the cranking iron ones of stern, cold reality. But, unlike the deer which, when wounded, seeks the covert, that it may hide its agony, she plunged into all the fashionable gayeties of the city with redoubled zeal, pursuing the phantom of pleasure, which forever eluded her grasp, with the energy of despair. 
               She was not now attended with loving care by her husband; but sycophants whispered in her ear their hollow flatteries, which echoed mournfully and mockingly through the deserted chambers of her heart. While she sat there, apparently the gayest among the gay throng, she knew that Ridgely was with a party at the hotel drinking, playing cards, and dissipating all the money of which he could obtain possession. 
               Zenaida could not read the secret of her heart; but she saw that her gayety was assumed, that the forced smile died witheringly upon her lip; and she pitied her, whose life was passed in this vain show. 
                
               Florida Bernard was also there, commanding as ever in her unassumed dignity and lofty gracefulness of deportment; but Zenaida noticed that her eyes rested frequently upon her brother with a yearning tenderness; and once she saw her brush an obtrusive tear-drop from her eye. That brother was her only one, and he was dear, most dear to the heart of Florida, who when divested of the mantle of pride in which she had wrapped herself so closely since her brother's marriage, was a loving, passionate-hearted woman. 
               She had looked upon, and stigmatized Helen, as an interloper. She had robbed her of her brother, had separated him from his family who almost worshiped him; and the denunciations of Florida had been most bitter. But now she looked upon the young wife in her beauty,-as she raised her eyes, full of love's unutterable devotion to Arthur's face,-upon him as he gazed at her, a bright, particular star in that splendid galaxy of beauty and youth, with fond pride, at the thought that she was all his own; and the heart which she had hardened was softened in the purifying fire of love to receive a better impression, under the influence of which she determined to remove, all the obstacles,-the barriers which she had resolved should prove indestructible, which had been raised between herself and them, by her own volition. 
               Perhaps had Florida expected to remain in L--, she would not have suffered these better feelings to gain the ascendancy; but the gallant Col. Philip Ashley, who was now beside her, was soon to claim her as his bride. As his wife, she must leave all the familiar scenes, the pleasant associations among which she had always lived; and unless she sought reconciliation with her brother before her departure, an opportunity might never offer; for too well did she know that no advances would come from him, whose feelings she had so outraged. 
               The Bainbridges were there; Hamilton in attendance upon Irene Miller, whom Bruce at once struck off the list of his especial favorites. 
               "I have no respect for a girl who will suffer the attentions of that most despicable coxcomb." 
               Beatrice was bringing all the artillery of her charms, personal and intellectual, to bear upon Frank Churchill; with whom her acquaintance was of most recent date. He was more equally matched with her than Elliston Hunter, her country esquire. 
               Churchill was tall, with deep-black hair and eyes, and would have been exceedingly handsome, had not the unnatural pallor of his face, the nervous tremulousness of his hand, and a general recklessness of manner, borne irrefutable testimony in proof of the charge preferred against him by Helen. 
               His dress was elegant, striking the happy mean between the extremes of foppishness and slovenliness; bearing evidence dence of his correct, refined taste. His manners, when he was uninfluenced by wine, were highly polished, and wholly unexceptionable. 
               "Who is that gentleman?" inquired Zenaida. 
               "Francis Churchill," replied Bruce. 
               As she heard the name, the charge with which he stood indicted occurred to her, and she sighed to think that it was correct; that the spirit inhabiting so noble a temple should be gradually debased, until no vestige of its former glory remained. 
               As she turned from him, her attention was arrested by a gentleman who sat in the box before them. He had been completely absorbed in the music; but now, in the pause which had succeeded, he looked round, and as his eye fell upon Arthur, bowed smilingly; Arthur returned his salutation, and whispered to Zenaida that Allan Elliott was before her. 
               He had teased her so untiringly about him, that when a few moments later Elliott's glance met hers, a rosy blush suffused her face. 
               "This," thought Elliott, "must be the sister of whom Bernard spoke; I am not disappointed in her appearance, for her face is' the sweetest one I ever looked upon, and that little, exquisitely moulded hand, a type of the highest order of physical beauty,-which a philosopher would denominate a psychical hand,-is the one which penned those fair lines." 
               Here he averted his eyes, fearful that his prolonged observation might be noticed by her; but many times during the evening, that face proved an irresistible magnet of attraction to him. 
               While Elliott was thus absorbed in contemplation of this sweet lily-of-the-vale, whose graceful modesty and elegant simplicity were contrasted so finely with the other human flowers blooming round her,-some flaunting in gay colors like the poppy or hollyhock; some stately as the regal dahlia; others glowing like the full-blown, blushing rose,-he was not unobserved. Many bright glances of curious admiration fell upon him from black, brown, and blue eyes of various shades and different degrees of beauty; but all unheeded by him. He was known to be wealthy; it needed but a glance to tell that he was handsome; and report whispered that his mental gifts and intellectual acquirements were far above the average of mankind. But he shunned the crowd, and in the retirement of his own home devoted himself to study,-to the perfecting of many arts and sciences in which he was proficient. 
               He was rather above medium height; his hair dark-brown, soft and fine, waved above a broad, white forehead; his eyes were unfathomable as the sea in their blue depths; his mouth combined the firmness of manhood with a sweetness almost feminine; his beard was brown like his hair, and silky in its softness. 
               He was alone, and being a passionate lover of music, sat drinking in the flood of melody; its exquisite effect marred by no word inopportunely spoken. He had sat with his eyes fixed in the dreamy abstraction of thought, until he saw Zenaida; and now he watched the emotions that played upon her face, aroused by the music, with which its varied expressions were in perfect harmony. When it swelled high with notes of triumph, her head was thrown back, a bright smile hovered around her lip,-a glad light shone in her eyes; but when it changed and breathed a plaintive sweetness, her head drooped, and a tear-drop glittered on her long lashes. 
               This last piece-a peal of triumph for victory, succeeded by the mournful wail above the dead-being over, the audience dispersed. 
                      
                        "Music, when soft voices die, 
                        Vibrates in the memory." 
                     
                   Thus it was with Elliott; and as the strains sounded again and again, ever before him rose that face, the sweet pensiveness of which he had admired the more, the more he gazed upon it. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE home of Elliott was situated upon -- street, far removed from the bustle and confusion of the mercantile portion of the city. A whole square was inclosed in the space which surrounded the house. 
               The house itself was picturesque in appearance: a Gothic edifice, overgrown with ivy, which Elliott had planted, giving it the character of an old ruin. The yard was thickly set with grass, trees, and flowers of many brilliant dyes, forming a bright oasis in the desert of brick and stone which surrounded it on every side; a gleam of divine beauty amid the artificialities of the works of man. 
               The mother of Elliott, a refined and gentle lady, inhabited with him this sweet place, upon whose green-sward, under the overshadowing canopy of trees, fairies might dance in the holy moonlight unmolested by the discordant din of human revelry; this home, which the angels of the flowers and leaves had taken under their special guardianship; which they decorated with richest verdure and brightest colors. 
               On the southern side of the house, there was a conservatory, where plants of every clime unfurled their bright banners, emblazoned with gorgeous inscriptions in characters of living light, and distilled the richest fragrance. Camelias, with their deep-green leaves and wax-like petals of deepest crimson, rosy pink or snowy whiteness; fuschias with graceful heads, overpowered and drooping with the weight of their own exquisite loveliness; the abutillon, whose golden bells, streaked with veins of fire like that which glows in the heart of a ruby, form the drinking-cups of the flower-spirits; roses of every hue, twining the pillars in loving embrace, their clusters of buds and blossoms hanging temptingly, and many others,- 
                      
                        "Which flung from their bells a sweet peal anew 
                        Of music so delicate, soft and intense,- 
                        It was felt like an odor within the sense;" 
                     
                   bloomed there; fit adornment for the home of the marble Flora, who reclined gracefully, half hidden by their many twining stems. She looked like some fair maiden who had fallen asleep, her senses steeped to forgetfulness in the charmed waves of the sea of mingled odors which rolled there. The flowers guarded her slumbers; the roses twined wreaths, which they laid upon her unconscious brow, and cast a delicate flush upon her cheek, making it to wear the hue of life. And, as the birds covered the Babes in the Wood, so these guardians dropped bright leaves upon her, that no intrusive glance might invade her repose. 
               The furniture of the house was in harmony with its outward aspect. Pictures in antique frames adorned the walls. There were many portraits and landscapes: some Old-World scenes,-the castled crags of the sunny Rhine; the entrancing scenes of beautiful Italy,-others portraying the beauties of our own dear land. Many books in many tongues were scattered around by Allan's liberal hand. One room, from which a glass-door opened into the conservatory, was set apart for his especial use. It contained a handsome library of ancient and modern authors; an easel and other implements of the artist-a portfolio of drawings and paintings attesting his skill; a piano, from which, in the deepening hush of twilight, he would draw forth tones of ethereal beauty and sweetness. A door from this room opened into a smaller one, which was fitted up with apparatus for making chemical and philosophical experiments. To his books and these interesting experiments he devoted much of his time; his lighter accomplishments being only resorted to when his mind, after unnatural tension, required repose and relaxation. Often would he sit with book in hand, his eye wandering far from its pages,-his mind busy with some idea which a casual word had suggested. A world of imaginary beauty, upon which common mortals never intruded, was open before him, and through its enchanted vales, lovely as Thessalian Tempe-by the side of streams which flowed, like Pactolus, o'er sands of gold-to the sound of dulcet music, like that of Apollo's lyre, which drew the listening woods along and stopped the running waters, he moved, attended by beings lovely as the Muses, the Graces, and Nymphs, who haunted the dreamy souls of poets in olden time. These visions were so full of beauty that before them-the creations of his own soul-he bowed in homage. All this wealth of learning and deep feeling was hidden from the rude gaze of the curious multitude; for no toil, bodily or mental, was of necessity imposed upon Allan Elliott, the favored child of fortune; and so these great gifts, which might have added to the treasures of literature and art, were cultivated only for his own gratification. Bright thoughts, that illumined his mind with intense radiance, passed, like the summer lightning, leaving no trace; or, if they were committed to paper, were locked up in his desk, and jealously guarded from all intrusive eyes. Fame,-the hollow applause of the multitude, fleeting as the life of the bright-winged ephemeris, vanishing like the rainbow after the storm, a mocking, empty sound,-what was it to him? He felt that he could sound the deep, illimitable abysms of his own soul; that on the bright wing of imaginative, poetic thought, he could soar far above the heights attained, with slow and painful steps, by others; and, knowing his own power, he cared not that it should be recognized by others. 
               He loved his mother with love unspeakable; and she deemed him a paragon of all excellence-her brave, her beautiful, her nobly-gifted son, in whom no faults were discernable, by her love-blinded eyes. When he read to her, his voice was sweeter to her ear than the Angel Israfel's; when he painted a picture, not Raphael, Michael Angelo, Titian, Rubens, or Claude Lorraine could surpass it in her partial judgment; and the tones drawn from his piano were more heavenly than the music of the spheres. She considered not, that for these talents, wasted or misapplied, her idol would be finally called upon to render an account; that the soul, so keenly alive to every perception of harmony and beauty in the material, visible world, and the bright dream-land through which he wandered, was blind to the glories of that Being, by whose infinite power and wisdom this beautiful world was created, by whose beneficent love it is sustained. 
               His mind, so clear on other subjects, was here lost in a labyrinthine maze of conjectures and doubts. That immortality, which is the sustaining hope of the Christian,-that eternal progression toward perfection to which he looks forward with delight so deep,-were veiled from his eyes, which saw not the glory revealed, being blinded by the veil of dark clouds, and mists of doubt in which the unbelieving have enveloped all questions, pertinent to this theme of absorbing interest and vital importance. He could not believe that his soul, with its high aspirations, its yearnings after immortality, its capacities for joy or woe, too great to be tested or satisfied in the short course of human life, would perish utterly-would be annihilated, blotted out from the book of existence, together with the mortal tenement in which it was confined; but this mystery his philosophy could not fathom. 
               The Metempsychosis of Pythagoras presented no pleasing prospect to his mind; for it would be a degradation too deep to be contemplated with calmness, could he believe that the soul of man, when separated from the body, might, by any possibility, inhabit the form of some lower order of animate creation. Neither did the theory of more modern philosophers please him; that the spirit but laid aside one mortal vestment, to clothe itself with another; that it was condemned to tread forever the dull round of a never-ending, earthly existence, tortured by indistinct memories of past experiences; vaguely conscious that it had been, and had seen, without knowing where, or what. 
               The Elysian Fields of the poets, peopled by the shades of departed warriors and statesmen, were naught but an unsubstantial dream; Plato's reasonings might conclusively prove his immortality; but he could not reveal the true destiny of man. Other philosophers might, during life, apparently substantiate many pretty theories, might come near the truth itself; but, in death, there was a destroying doubt, a perplexing "if these things be so." 
               The simple sublimity of the philosophy of the inspired Word was passed by, unregarded. While his spirit was perishing, instead of quenching his burning, thirst from the pure fountain of Divine wisdom he drank from the muddy pools of poor, erring humanity. No angels sang for him "Peace on earth;" no Saviour agonized for him in lonely sorrow, or hung bleeding on the cross, nor opened for him the dark portals of the tomb, showing that the grave is but the vestibule of Eternity, the antechamber to the presence of Jehovah. He looked, upon the sects calling themselves Christians-and they who preached the theory of peace, practiced the precepts of war-persecuting each other even unto death; they, who professed to follow but one leader, were divided into innumerable, opposing factions; they, who acknowledged the one grand centre, the Sun of Righteousness, around which all professed to revolve, had all a centre of their own, of which they were the obedient satellites. Where he looked for unity there was division; where he expected peace there was strife; where he sought for love, the charity which suffereth long, and is kind, which envieth not, which seeketh the good of another, and not its own, there he found envy, malice, and all uncharitableness; and seeing no way in which all these discordant elements might be harmoniously combined, he turned sorrowfully from the contemplation of these things, believing not that the God, by whose Omnipotent fiat the innumerable worlds had been spoken into existence, could also educe order out of this spiritual chaos. But of these thoughts, these hopes and fears and doubts, he said nothing; he sought no counselor wiser than himself; and thus remained in darkness. For him the sun shone, and he rejoiced in his beams, which give glorious light and life to the earth; but he gave not God the praise; for him the rush of the storm, the glare of the lightning, the roll of the thunder, possessed an indescribable fascination; but in them the voice of God was not audible to his ear. For him the birds sang, and "their profuse strains of unpremeditated art," their gushing, soul-thrilling heart-melodies fell upon him, sweet as the poet's song, or the words of love from maiden lips,-soft as the breeze, the last faint sigh of the dying day, or, the half-remembered strains of heavenly music, which haunted the soul in its antenatal dreams; but his tribute of joyful praise and thanksgiving went not up, a sweet incense before the throne of the Almighty, with their matin anthems. For him the flowers bloomed, shedding their grateful odors round his daily path; but written in them the name of God was invisible to his eyes; their floral bells, as they swung and "tolled their perfume, on the passing air," rung for him no "call to prayer." He enjoyed; but the measure of his joy was not full. 
               Such was Allan Elliott, who turned his lips from the rose-crowned goblet of the pleasures of the world before it was scarcely tasted, conscious that there was a thirst within his soul which it had no power to allay; but refusing to test the healing efficacy of the unpolluted waters of the river of life, which, glittering in the clear crystal goblets of truth, were presented to him by angel hands. 
               
                   
                     Human heart! forever pining 
                     For love and joy, 
                     A sun forever shining, 
                     A bliss without alloy, 
                  
                   
                     A life that knows no dying, 
                     A friendship without pain, 
                     A heart that's free from sighing, 
                     Pure, guileless, without stain; 
                  
                   
                     In heaven alone the friend is 
                     Who never will betray, 
                     In heaven alone the love is 
                     That never will decay; 
                  
                  
                   
                     In heaven alone the heart is 
                     That is not filled with sighs, 
                     And there alone the life is 
                     The life that never dies. 
                  
                   
                     At God's right hand are pleasures- 
                     Pure, free for evermore; 
                     In his keeping there are treasures, 
                     A rich and boundless store. 
                  
                
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE remaining weeks of winter passed away; and as the soft airs, the harbingers, of approaching spring, began to fan her brow, the Earth laid aside her mantle of kingly ermine, which she had donned to protect her from the piercing wintry blasts. 
               Hawthornden was now enlivened by a visit from Alice Bainbridge, accompanied by little Amy. Alice remained only a few hours; but Amy clung to Zenaida, and begged so earnestly to be permitted to stay with her, that Alice consented; Zenaida having promised that she should be sent home as soon as she wished to go. The sweet child was very dear to her, and she loved to feel her soft arms round her neck, her dewy kisses upon her cheek, and to see her beauteous head, with its wealth of golden curls, pillowed upon her breast. 
               Amy, too, had quite fallen in love with baby Harry, and, interpenetrated with delight, her childish form would dilate when Helen would trust him with her. She would sit upon the floor that she might hold him mote conveniently-would talk to him, cooing softly as a dove,-every smile upon his baby-face reflected radiantly from her own, every manifestation of his fondness for her met with extravagant expressions of pleasure. When he fell asleep in her arms, she would watch the drooping of his white eyelids, the gradual eclipse of the dark, shining orbs they covered; and when his tiny hand clasped hers, she would not stir, fearful that she might disturb him. 
               Her light, dancing step and cheery voice, chirping snatches of song, waked the echoes of Hawthornden; and when in a room, she would, like a humming-bird, dart from one object of interest to another, infusing some of her own light-heartedness into all who beheld her. 
               One evening, after she had been several days with Zenaida, Arthur brought a message from Mrs. Bainbridge commanding the immediate return of the little truant. Amy was distressed beyond measure at parting with Zenaida and Harry, and many times renewed the declaration "I will come again when the flowers bloom. Aunt Juno has promised me a little chicken, and Marcus is going to find me a bird's-nest full of little blue eggs." 
               "I will send for you," said Zenaida, "when the flowers bloom, and you shall have some nice, strawberries and cherries." 
               "You are so good!" cried the delighted Amy, clapping her hands joyously, in anticipation of this delicious feast. "I love you!" she continued, clasping her arms round Zenaida's naida's neck, all her tears being dried as the thought of another visit took possession of her fancy. 
               Arthur took charge of her, and delivered her safely to her mother. 
                
               A few days after Arthur proposed to Helen to go to the Cathedral. 
               "You have been, Helen, but Zenaida has never heard the music, or witnessed the ceremonies observed there." 
               "Oh, brother!" exclaimed Zenaida, "it will give me so much pleasure to go. I have always cherished the desire, and thoughts that I would propose going; but now you have anticipated my wish." 
               "I thought it would please you," he said, with a gratified smile. 
               The Sabbath came, and at an early hour, the congregation assembled. Zenaida gazed with interest upon the stately building, with its pictured decorations, its vaulted roof, its images and wax-lights; and, had it been the twilight hour, the dusk gloom relieved only by the tapers' glow, as they twinkled, star-like around the altar, she could have imagined herself in some storied pile of the Old World, the echoing aisles of which she had trodden in fancy, surrounded by kings and queens, knights, lords, and fair ladies, sweeping along in a shadowy procession. 
               They had not long been seated, when a procession, not of shadows, but of fair young girls, entered, and paced slowly up the aisle. They were in the first flush of youthful beauty, apparently about the same age, and were subjects for the rite of confirmation. All were dressed in white, the garb of innocence and purity-of the redeemed in heaven, who have washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb. Veils of the same snowy whiteness fell around them, and were confined by wreaths of white flowers-the bridal adornments in which they were to be wedded to the church. 
               They took their appointed places; and, upon their fair young heads, bowed before the altar, fell the light of heaven through the stained windows, like a golden glory, encircling many brows with a halo like that around the heads of the saints. Upon others it fell redly, as if they were bathed in blood. 
               The rite administered, the organ pealed forth its solemn music,-now rising like the lark, as it would soar to the very gates of heaven, now dying to a low murmur, almost inaudible, like the soft sighing of the west wind. 
               Zenaida was encompassed by a sea of harmony, and her soul rose and fell, like a boat upon the ocean, with the undulating motion of the waves. The scenes around her were woven in with many poetic associations, and while the services proceeded, she heard in imagination the song of the monks of Melrose ringing in her ear- 
                      
                        "Dies ir, dies illa, 
                        Solvet sclum in favilla;" 
                     
                   and she was still unconsciously repeating the words of this most beautiful, impressive hymn, when the final benediction was pronounced, and, with a long, deep sigh, she awoke from the spell which had bound her like enchantment. 
               "Well, Zenaida," said Arthur, "were your expectations realized?" 
                
               "Yes," she replied; "I have enjoyed it very much. I never heard music before, for there is none comparable to the organ." 
               "Oh!" exclaimed a pretty girl, who just then passed them, "I am so glad it is over; I always think of serpents, and all sorts of evil things, while I am here!" 
               "Why did you come, then?" asked her companion. 
               "Why, because I knew everybody would be here, and I look so well in my new dress." 
               "How strange," said Zenaida, "that the impressions of different people should be so widely different in regard to the same thing! But the light of heaven is varied according to the medium through which it is seen. It shines through some human hearts in rainbow-hues, like those which fall from those stained windows, while other hearts are so hopelessly opaque, that it cannot penetrate at all. No visions of 'serpents' disturbed me, and if there were any lurking in the Elysian Fields through which I roved, they were coiled beneath concealing roses." 
                
               Mrs. Bankhead joined them as they left the church. 
               "Now, my dear friends," she said, "I shall not permit you to leave the city until after dinner, at least. You must go with me. I am delighted that I have encountered you so unexpectedly. There will be no one with me but Mrs. Elliott, my dear, kind friend, who has promised to spend the evening with me, through pure compassion for my loneliness. You are acquainted with her, Helen?" 
               "But slightly," replied Helen. "I am not entirely unacquainted with her by reputation, and, from what I have heard, I know that she must be a most kind and loving woman." 
               "Your tribute of respect is just," said Mrs. Bankhead, "and I rejoice that I may be instrumental in bringing into closer communion two friends whom I value as highly as I do yourself and Mrs. Elliott." 
               "Zenaida," said Arthur, in a voice inaudible to any ear but hers, "the fates are propitious. Conciliate mamma, and you will then sail in a sea free from shoals, reefs, and quicksands." 
               "Brother," she replied, laughing, "you would have been enough to wear out the patient endurance of Penelope herself, if you had been among her suitors, for you are the most persevering creature I ever saw!" 
                
               After dinner, they were all seated in Mrs. Bankhead's elegant parlor, when Mrs. Elliott arrived. The conversation was, for some time, general, but at last Mrs. Elliott left Mrs. Bankhead and Helen and sat down by Zenaida. 
               "You have not been long a resident of our county, Miss Morris?" she said, by way of preface. 
               "I have been with my sister but a few weeks," she replied. 
               "What impression has our city and its society produced upon you? A favorable one, I hope," she continued. 
               "I have formed some very pleasant acquaintances," responded Zenaida; "and the city has been presented to me in an engaging aspect; but I have, as yet, looked only upon the bright side of the picture. I give the preference to the country above the city; for there we have no contrasts so painful as the city presents, with its extremes of wealth and poverty; its hovels and princely palaces; its great virtues, and correspondingly great vices." 
               "True, my dear young lady," replied Mrs. Elliott; "but the city must offer many attractions to one of your years, in its various assemblies, its galleries of art, and spectacles of many kinds. Is it not so?" 
               "The scenes presented by the country, with its green fields and leafy woods; its sunsets and their 'gorgeous ministers;' its moonlight, flooding all things with a silvery radiance, giving earth the 
                     appearence
                     appearance
                   of an enchanted land; its mountains and valleys; its hills, dales, winding streams, and impenetrable recesses, afford a spectacle, unrivaled for sublimity and beauty, by all that the city contributes for the amusement and edification of its denizens." 
               "Nay," said Mrs. Elliott, smiling at her earnestness; "does not the same sun shine upon us, gilding our palaces, until they glitter, like Aladdin's, in his beams? Does not the moon shed upon us the same silvery radiance?" 
               "The sun, moon, and stars," assented Zenaida, "are undoubtedly the same; but the view is limited by the surrounding walls, which hem one in on every side, and you see their glory through the thick veil of an impure atmosphere, which dims their clear radiance." 
               "You should see my home," said Mrs. Elliott. "It is a country-place, taken up and transplanted in the city; or, at least, such is its aspect; but the city has grown around it, and fresh-painted, pretentious edifices are visible on all sides, while it is nestled among trees and vines, interknit, and clasping their many-twining stems so closely about it, that the wails are hardly discernible. Then, too, it is a perfect thicket of flowers-a wilderness of sweets." 
               "Perhaps, then," said Zenaida, with an arch look and bright smile, "it would be better for me not to look upon it, for, thereby, I might be tempted to break the commandment, which enjoins upon us not to covet the possessions of another." 
               Mrs. Elliott laughed. "I would not be afraid to trust you," she said, "and I hope soon to show you all its beauties. You are fond of flowers I know. An affirmative answer is wholly superfluous, for the expression your face assumes at the mention of them, assures me of the fact. Moreover, I am so fond of them myself, that I discern by intuition when any one sympathizes with me. I am correct, am I not?" 
               "Words cannot express my love for them," replied Zenaida. 
               They conversed for some time longer, and Mrs. Elliott was charmed by the modest sweetness and rare intelligence of this young girl, in whose eyes, as she looked into their dreamy depths, she saw something which brought her son vividly before her. 
               When she bade Zenaida farewell, it was with the expressed hope that they might meet often. 
               "I have not many friends," she said, "and will be most happy to include you and your sister among them." 
                
               "Well, sis," said Arthur, as they were homeward bound, "how did you like mamma? You appeared to get along famously together. Do you like her so well that you will fall in love with Allan for the sake of becoming her daughter?" 
               Zenaida laughed merrily, and replied that "mamma was perfectly charming." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               "CHURCHILL, my good fellow," said Bruce Wilson, peeping in at Frank's door, "come, put up Blackstone, or Coke upon Littleton, or whatever volume of stupid, legal science that is that you are poring over. Don't you want to take a ride? I went round to Anderson's rooms, but he would not consent to go with me. If you refuse, I will have to get out a writ of 'have his carcass' against him, and I am afraid then I should be compelled to return it with the inscription, 'non est inventus,' for he does not want to go." 
               "I," replied Frank, "would have felt much more highly honored if I had not been made a mere secondary consideration with you." 
               "Oh!" said Bruce, "you know that Saul and I are almost as loving as Damon and Pythias, or Orestes and Pylades, and as inseparable as the Siamese Twins, and nothing was more natural than that I should think of my 'alter ego' first. But," he exclaimed, picking up the book Frank had dropped upon his entrance, "it seems that I have, unintentionally, brought a false accusation against you; for this is no dry law-document, but 'The Newcomes.' You might have learned a lesson from the Rev. Honeyman to slip your novel out of slight, and be studiously perusing something more substantial when any one entered." 
               "Never mind the book," replied Frank, "or my legal studies either. I have more knowledge in my cranium now than litigants will give me an opportunity to display; and, thinking it useless to encumber the storehouse of memory with any more rubbish of the same sort, I have turned my attention to Belles-Lettres. I would not have been a mere drone in this busy hive of humanity; but there are so many working-bees to sip the honey from the flowers, alias clients, that bloom in these prim, cultivated parterres, that none remain for me." 
               "'Nil mortalibus arduum est,'" said Bruce, "and 'nil sine magno vita labore dedit mortalibus,' are two wise saws, which ought to be engraven indelibly upon your memory. You would find them of great service, of almost incalculable benefit, when you were despondent, as your last words would show." 
               "Thank you for your gratuitous advice, my most degenerate scion of the royal tree of Scotia," replied Frank, ironically. "Bruce, you ought to be a preacher; you are such an excellent sign-board; know so well how to point the road to others, and never go it yourself." 
               "Do not, I entreat you, be so sarcastic, mon cher," said Bruce. "You will suffuse my delicate cheek with the rosy blush of shame. But, speaking of blushes reminds me of the drive I proposed. Have you ever been to Hawthornden, the country-seat of Arthur Bernard? Yes? Well, all right; for that is the goal of my hopes this evening. If you are at leisure, have no important case to examine, I will be most happy to have your company." 
               "What is the attraction there?" inquired Frank. 
               "As Mr. Mantalini would say," responded Bruce, "there is there 'the demdest, most bewitching little captivator,' you ever beheld, in the person of Mrs. Bernard's sister." 
               "What!" said Frank; "the one upon whom you were dancing attendance so assiduously at Madame's concert the other evening?" 
               "Her individual self," replied Bruce; "the personification of very delightful attribute; the sweetest, prettiest, most intelligent, fascinating-Alas! my vocabulary does not contain words sufficiently superlative to express her excellence." 
               "What salary does she give you to act in the capacity of trumpeter, mon cher monsieur?" queried Churchill. 
               "She will repay me in smiles, a currency that is above par in my exchange," replied the good-humored Bruce. 
               "Well," said Frank, "I am yours to command. Are the beautiful blacks in harness? I shall be all impatience until their winged feet are bearing us to this enchanted castle, with its beautiful princess." 
               "Here are the blacks," said Bruce; "and this Hibernian tiger, whom I improvised for the occasion, no doubt thinks his office no sinecure. Paddy, me boy," he continued, "an' would ye na like to hould these same illigant critters foriver?" 
               "Divil a bit," replied Pat, with a grin; "for be the howly mither of Moses, niver a bit of the skin would they lave upon me hands wi' the tossin' of their heads." 
                
               "Arrah, Pat!" said Bruce; "faith an' here's a bit of fairy-money, which, I'll bet you a brass button without a shank, will soon find its way to the sheban-shop; for an' ye are like your race, your patron, Saint Paddy, has suckled you with whisky, joy. Where did you come from, Pat?" 
               "From Enniskillen, County Fermanagh, your worship," replied Pat. 
               Bruce tossed the coin to Paddy, who caught it with great dexterity. 
               "Good luck till yer honor," was his parting benediction. "May the howly Virgin, and the Lord Almighty God Jasus bless ye." 
               "That hearty blessing," said Bruce, laughing, "is worth half a dollar, is it not, Churchill?" 
               "From his mouth blessings and curses both flow freely; the sweet and bitter water from the same fountain," said Frank. "How long is it," he continued, "since this bright, particular star first appeared among your planets?" 
               "Sax weeks," replied Bruce, "as Paddy always answers, when asked how long he has been in America." 
                
               "Bruce," resumed Churchill, after a pause,-during which he had been attentively regarding the beautiful horses before him,-"the scales of our blind Goddess Justitia, are most unevenly balanced; for while you dash along the highway of life in this splendid style, I am compelled by Necessity, a most stern lawgiver, to make the same journey on foot; and a weary way do I sometimes find it. Smooth and regular as this level turnpike to you, it is a rugged, precipitous hill, covered with brambles, to me. This problem of life, the unequal distribution of wealth, is one which I have never been able to solve." 
               
                  
                      
                        Qui fit, Mcenas, ut nemo, quam sibi sortem 
                        Sen ratio dederit, sen fors objecerit, illa 
                        Contentus vivat, laudat diverse sequentes!" 
                     
                   said Bruce, seriously. "Churchill, if I have wealth, you have talent which might acquire wealth, and crown your lofty brow with the civic oak-wreath. If you would rouse the abilities dormant within you, you might occupy a niche in the temple of fame; while I, among the thousands, gazed upon you with admiration, unable to follow where you would lead. I expect to live to see you, at least, a member of Congress, perhaps a foreign minister,-the Hon. Francis Evelyn Churchill,-quite a high-sounding name, with which to fill the speaking-trump of fame. But, when all these honors are heaped upon your head, when you are rewarded by the approbation of brave men and the smiles of fair women, forget not the insignificant Bruce Wilson, who, viewed from your sublime altitude, will diminish to the proportions of a Lilliputian. Eheu! I have delivered quite an oration. Who knows but I might make a stump-speech myself? 
               "I had never expected to learn wisdom from the lips of a rattle-brained creature like yourself, Bruce," said Frank; "but, for once, you have given utterance to that which affects me more than all the proverbs of Solomon. You may rest assured that I shall not forget you, if the honors which you see in prospective for me should be like 'Pelion on Ossa' piled." 
               "I will overlook the rather equivocal nature of your left-handed compliment, in consideration of the happy effect my speech has had upon you. As to your assurance that you will not forget me, you may be perfectly sincere; but 'honores mutant mores,' and I will not calculate upon the continuance of your regard. I believe I will write out my oration from which, in the mouth of a fool, you are so kind as to say you have learned wisdom; and have it published along with those of Henry Clay, Demosthenes, Cicero, and Daniel Webster. I wrote a poem once, Churchill," he said, turning to Frank. 
               "Why didn't you publish it?" asked Frank. 
               "You know Byron says, that 
                      
                        'When the sons of song descend to trade, 
                        Their bays are sear,-their former laurels fade,' 
                     
                   and there was not a single extra leaf in my crown (which was placed upon my head by my young lady-admirers, to whose albums I contributed over the signature of Claude St. Clair,) which I could afford to spare; so I preferred to let it 'waste its sweetness on the desert air,' being well aware that I should demand a full equivalent in hard cash from my publishers, as I was not at that time in the mood to enrich the literature of the land gratuitously. Having spent the last cent of my quarter's allowance, I had recourse to my quill and paper, and commenced ransacking my brain for poetic thoughts and figures just to while away the time, being 'deterred by impecuniosity,' from other more agreeable pastimes." 
               "I am exceedingly interested in your experiences of a literary life," said Frank; "but here we are at Hawthornden." 
               
                  
                      
                        "If there's anything nice in this creation, 
                        'Tis a pretty little wife and a big plantation," 
                     
                   sang Bruce, as he jumped out. "Arthur Bernard has the nice little wife, and will, one of these days, have the other necessary ingredient in the cup of happiness." 
               "Here, Julius Csar, Cneius Pompey, Marcus Aurelius, Antonius, or whatever may be your euphonious cognomen," he said, apostrophizing Marcus, who just then appeared, "take these exquisite specimens of the genus equus, and accommodate them with a luxurious resting-place." 
               "Sir," said Marcus, grinning and scratching his head with an air of perplexity, "I doesn't know what dat dictionary talk means. Please to 'spress yourself ober agin." 
               "Well, then," said Bruce, "take these horses and put them in the stable; for I am going to stay to supper." 
               "I knows what dat means," said Marcus, displaying his ivory, and the whites of his eyes, which, Bruce observed, "closely resembled the albuminous portion of a hard-boiled egg." 
                
               "I wonder who that can be!" exclaimed Helen, as the tinkle of the door-bell announced visitors. "Give Harry to me, Joanna," she said to the black nurse, "and go open the door. Zenaida," she continued, as the girl departed, "I hope it is some of your admirers; for I am just now so busy, that I would not like to be interrupted." 
               "Whoever it may be, he will have to make himself vastly agreeable to compensate for the loss of pleasure I sustain by his arrival," said Zenaida, as she rose and laid aside her book. 
                
               "Miss Morris," said Bruce, "allow me to present to you my friend, Mr. Churchill." 
               Zenaida returned Frank's graceful salutation, and Bruce resumed,- 
               "Behold," said he, "fairest of all ladies, one who is willing to prostrate himself before your feet and kiss the tips of your rosy fingers." 
               "Take him at his word Miss Morris," said Frank. "If you would not enjoy the spectacle I would." 
               "You think I am not in earnest?" said Bruce; "I will prove it." So saying, he kneeled before Zenaida, and raising his eyes imploringly said,-"Gracious princess! vouchsafe, I beseech thee, to grant me the privilege of saluting your fair hand." 
               "Rise, Mr. Wilson," said Zenaida, imperatively; "I do not admire such scenes;" and she glanced at the mirthful countenance of Churchill. 
               "I have offended thee, fair arbitress of my fate," he said, with a sigh-though subdued laughter was gleaming in his eye. "Oh!" he continued, "do not look upon me with those cruel eyes. Their glance in anger I cannot bear." 
               "Mr. Wilson," said Zenaida, turning to Frank, "must have been amusing himself with private theatricals since I last saw him. He ought to have notified me that he had under rehearsal this scene, that I might have been prepared to act my part." 
               "You mistake," said Bruce, rising and elevating himself proudly; "I am not acting an assumed part. I have been at school with nature, and did but give expression to the emotions of my soul, and you have turned these feelings into tratvestie." 
               "O enigma, more obscure than the riddle of the sphynx!" ejaculated Zenaida; "how shall I ever find the solution of thy character?" 
               "The labyrinth of my mind," replied Bruce, "is more intricate in its mazy windings than the far-famed habitation of the Cretan Minotaur; but you, fairest Ariadne! ought to be able to furnish the clew." 
               "I confess my inability to do so at present," she answered. 
               "You ought to have heard his conversation, as we came out this evening, Miss Morris," said Churchill; "it would have increased your respect for him as it did mine. He was quite eloquent, quite reasonable, except that he confessed he had once written a poem." 
               "I protest against this breach of confidence," exclaimed Bruce. 
               "You should not object," said Zenaida, "to a repetition of conversation so highly creditable to yourself. I am sure I shall be much gratified if you will permit the indulgence of my curiosity, which has been, excited by the allusions of Mr. Churchill." 
               "You plead in vain," replied Bruce, "as I did, when a suppliant but a short time since. Miss Morris," he continued tinued;, "if a superior power were to grant you the privilege to elect between talents of a high order as your endowment in life-or wealth, which would you prefer?" 
               "Why do you ask me this question now so seriously?" said Zenaida. "Who could hesitate? I will not deny, that the power of wealth is almost illimitable; and a man may make of his wealth, if properly used, wings upon which he can fly to heaven; but what can be compared to the treasures of the mind, which are above price? Endowed with talents more valuable than the talents of gold and silver, a man may reign the undisputed monarch over the minds and hearts of his fellow-men; may make for himself a name, which will be remembered with honor, when the merely wealthy has passed away, forgotten like the dream of the night. But you have not told me why you asked for my opinion." 
               "You have decided as I knew you would," replied Bruce, with a significant glance toward Churchill, who had listened with deepest attention to her words. "I wished you to be the umpire between myself and my friend, as we disagreed upon this point. Churchill was the advocate of wealth." 
               "You advocated it merely for the sake of argument, I am sure," said Zenaida, appealing to Frank. "Mr. Wilson slanders you when he says that you would be willing to exchange your birthright, your glorious heritage, for sordid wealth, does he not?" 
               "I might have followed the example of Esau, this morning," replied Frank, "before the subject was discussed with so much eloquence and feeling; but now I could not be induced duced to part with any of my mental endowments, since you have called them a glorious heritage." 
               Thus they conversed, and the moments flew by almost imperceptibly, until Arthur came. He insisted that they should remain until after supper. Frank at first objected; but Bruce accepted the invitation without hesitancy, and Frank was secretly pleased, for he hoped that Arthur would monopolize Bruce, and leave him, to entertain or be entertained by Zenaida. 
               Joanna, in the mean while, had paid a visit to Aunt Juno's dominions, and returning, had informed Helen that "them two young men was gwine to stay to supper, 'cause they done told Marc. so." 
               "That being the case," said Helen, "Aunt Juno and I must prepare for them." 
                
               "Bruce," said Arthur, when they were assembled in the parlor after supper, "have you no anecdotes to tell, no sermons to preach, no songs to sing? I wish you had brought your violin." 
               "Oh!" said Bruce, with assumed simplicity, "I do not play the violin, I play the fiddle!" 
               "That," said Arthur, "is a distinction without a difference." 
               "No, it is not," persisted Bruce. "Paganini and Ole Bull were violinists. They were scientific performers, while I am not." 
               "Give us a backwoods' sermon, then," said' Arthur, "as the fiddle is non-comeatable." 
               "Miss Morris," objected Bruce, "this evening called me a private theatrical performer, and if I were to yield to your solicitations and suffer myself to be prevailed upon to sing a comic song, or preach a comic sermon, she would place me still lower in the scale of society, and denominate me a clown." 
               "I will be answerable for no diminution of Zenaida's favor," said Arthur. "Moreover, she is now so much occupied in listening to Churchill's eloquence, that she will not know what is the subject of our conversation. Bruce, tell me about that eloquent backwoods' orator who cut the moon in two for epaulettes, buttoned his coat with stars of the first magnitude, and wore the sun for a crown." 
               "I heard some orations last summer," said Bruce, "that capped the climax of the sublimely ridiculous; but, I really cannot deliver them to-night. I will call some time at your office, and enliven your solitude with some of them." 
               "Well," sighed Arthur, "I must submit; for 
                      
                        When you will, you will, you may depend on't, 
                        And when you won't, you won't, so there's an end on't.'" 
                     
                  
                
               Arthur found Bruce a less lively companion than he had ever known him to be; for Bruce was envying Frank, who sat by Zenaida, deeply attentive to every word that fell from her lips. Frank was unusually brilliant; for he felt that he would be appreciated by the fair girl beside him, and he roused himself from his partial lethargy. As Zenaida looked upon his dark eye, flashing with intelligence-upon his noble form, a model of manly grace; as she listened to the great, thoughts to which he gave utterance, her heart was sad within her; for she thought of the vice to which it was too evident he was a slave, and, most earnestly, did she wish that she had power to pluck from his hand, the poisoned cup from which he quaffed death and destruction-to release his lofty spirit from this vile bondage. 
                
               "Frank," said Bruce, as he jumped into the buggy, "we will have a dark ride to-night. It is black as a stack of black cats." 
               It was dark outwardly; but a new light was dawning in Churchill's mind-the first, faint, rosy flush preceding the full glory of the perfect day. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               "ALLAN," said Mrs. Elliott, as she entered the room where he sat, "I wish you would lay aside your books and take a ride with me this beautiful evening." 
               "Certainly, mother," he replied, looking up, smilingly; "your wish is law. In what direction are you going?" 
               "A short distance in the country, to visit Mrs. Bernard and her sister, who is now staying with her." 
               "This sister,-have you ever seen her, mother?" he inquired with interest. 
               "Yes, I met with her not long since, at Mrs. Bankhead's. We had quite a long conversation, and I was much pleased with her. There is a look in her eye that reminds me of you," she said, as she smoothed back his hair; and gazed with fond pride into the depths of those loving, spiritual eyes. 
                
               "The same I saw at the concert," said Allan to himself. "Are you ready, mother?" 
               "I will be in a few minutes," she replied. "I must gather a bunch of fresh buds and flowers, as an offering to this sweet, fair girl, whose eyes sparkle, whose color fluctuates, whose breath comes quick when the name of a flower is mentioned." 
               "You must resign this to me," said Allan. "I will arrange them, and they must be my letter of recommendation, my passport to the favor of this fair lady, with whom you have already ingratiated yourself." 
               "I resign most cheerfully," said Mrs. Elliott; "for I know they will evidence more exquisite taste if arranged by your hand." 
               "It is well that I am flattery-proof," replied Allan, "or you would turn my head, dear mother." 
               The evening was a pleasant one, a warm one in early spring. The roadside was bordered with fresh, tender grass of brightest green, the orchards around the pretty cottages were white and pin, with their myriads of fragrant blossoms. The early flowers were blooming brightly at Hawthornden, and the windows were all opened to admit the balmy breath, and bright, sunshiny smile of spring. Zenaida sat by one of them, her head bowed upon her hand, herself sunk in profound meditation. She thought of her country-home, which she pictured as it now appeared in all the lovely garniture of spring-she thought of her father's grave, which for months had been untended by her loving hand-she saw the sunlight slanting upon it, green as if there had been no death-she heard the soft sighing of the pendulous willows, as they were swayed by the gentle air, the twittering of the little birds, as they built their nests, conversing in loving words. These memories had been so strong upon her, that a letter to Mrs. Cabell, called forth by them, was lying open in her lap, in which she besought that lady to see her "black mammy," to charge her not to let the weeds grow upon that sacred grave. 
               She had left mammy in the care of Mr. Thornley, and knew that she would not want for anything; but this holiest place might be neglected, and the thought was too painful to be borne. Hearing the sound of wheels, she looked up, and seeing a splendid carriage stop before the gate, withdrew from the window; but not before she had been seen, and recognized by the occupants of the carriage. She saw Allan, as he tenderly assisted his mother to alight-she noted the reverential attention with which he listened to her remarks, as they walked up the path to the door. 
               "I have always a respect for the young man," she mused, "who reverences his mother, and from the grace with which he attends her, and the confidence with which she looks for these attentions, it may easily be seen that they are habitual." 
               She was glad that Arthur was in the city, that Helen was absent on a visit to a neighbor; for she had heard so much of Allan Elliott from them, that she might have been embarrassed had she met him for the first time in their presence. She now came gracefully forward to welcome Mrs. Elliott, and, by her, was presented to her son. 
               Allan had delivered his flowers to his mother, requesting her to present them to Miss Morris, and the lady now handed them to Zenaida. 
                
               "Allan selected and arranged them," she said; "and they must be his passport to your favorable regard." 
               Zenaida raised her eyes, full of eloquent feeling, and that look, and the bright smile, with which she received his offering, assured Allan that it would be duly appreciated. 
               Mrs. Elliott inquired for Helen, and was informed that she was absent. She praised the beauty of the place; said "she would like to see it a few weeks later;" asked Zenaida "if she did not like it as well as her more distant country home?" 
               "I can never love any other place as I do Willowbrook," she replied, with a sigh; her soft eyes suffused with tears; "for there is my father's grave, by which I have been, in spirit, all this bright evening." 
               "Pardon me, Miss Morris," said Mrs. Elliott, kindly, "if I have unwittingly recalled painful associations." 
               "The associations are sad, but not painful," replied Zenaida. "I would not have mentioned this sorrow of my life, but I had, just before your arrival, been indulging in a reverie of which my old home formed the principal theme." 
               "Miss Morris," said she the musical voice of Allan, "have you adopted this as your permanent home, or do you think of returning to Willowbrook?" 
               "I came here, expecting to return after my visit was concluded; but brother Arthur and Helen say that I shall not go back to my sylvan paradise, to pine away, in its unbroken solitudes." She smiled and blushed as she said this, for she thought of the means suggested by Arthur to prevent her return. 
               They conversed upon many themes, prolonging their visit beyond the time allotted to a fashionable call. Allan did not say much; but not a word that fell from the rosy lips in the melodious accents of Zenaida's voice escaped him. The loveliness and exquisite grace of her material form delighted him. Her wealth of hair, brown in the shade, but gleaming goldenly in the sunshine, which rested lovingly upon it-her sweet face, in which he could discern no fault--had round, polished arms, beautifully shaped hands, and rosy-tipped fingers, formed a model of beauty which a sculptor might have loved to copy; but the soul which beamed from her love-lit eyes enchanted him still more. Her thoughts were all pure and beautiful-her well-chosen words tinged with poetic fervor, and each one touched a chord in Allan's soul which had not vibrated before to the breath of living lips. 
               "Miss Morris," he said softly, as they were about to depart, his mother's attention being diverted from them, "I have listened with deepest delight to the conversation of my mother and yourself; but I trust that the next time I see you she may not be present to establish a monopoly, as she has done this evening. May I hope that when you look upon these flowers," pointing to those he had brought, "that you will bestow one thought on him who selected them, that they might be a fit offering at so fair a shrine." 
               It was well that Arthur was not near, to see the bright flush which now dyed her cheek. 
                
               "Well, Allan, said his mother, when they were again seated in the carriage, "was it not better to ride with me this pleasant evening, to spend a few hours in society so delightful, than to sit at home absorbed in the tragic fortunes of the house of Agamemnon, king of kings, or picturing to yourself the beauty of Grecian Helen, or the agonies of Prometheus? Now, what do you think of Miss Morris? Is she not charming?" 
               "She," replied Allan, abstractedly, "is an unwritten poem, an unnoted strain of dulcet music." 
               "She is a sweet girl," continued Mrs. Elliott. "I have not met with one for many years whom I admired so much. I shall regret it sincerely if she returns to her home; for I consider her quite an acquisitions to our limited circle of friends." 
               Allan made no reply, being seemingly buried in a profound reverie. 
               "This sweet flower," he mused, "nursed by the kindly influences of Nature, watered by the gentle dews of heaven, and warmed into blushing beauty by the soft sunlight and balmy air, possesses all its freshness, and fragrance, unexhaled by the false glare of society, so called. No vanity lurks in that placid soul, which reflects all images of beauty, as the calm, clear lake reflects the deep blue of heaven, the bright emerald of the waving trees, the silvery radiance of the white moon, and the golden-eyed stars. How would I rejoice could I transplant this lovely blossom into the garden of my affections, that it might shed its beauty and fragrance upon my life; or, to use my other metaphor, behold my image mirrored lovingly in the clear depths of this pure soul! As too much handling by careless hands tarnishes the fresh, bright beauty of the butterfly's wings, so does society despoil its habitu. The sense of delicate modesty which causes the eye to droop, the cheek to flush beneath the bold gaze of the public, is blunted; the eye, if it grows, burns not with the holy light of pure, deep feeling, but with the false fire of excitement and ratified vanity. How different this butterfly with soft-tinted wings, flitting from flower to flower, inhaling nourishment from sources whence others draw poison, undisturbed by vanity, unallured by the desire of exciting admiration and making conquests!-As a white-winged bird which has just bathed in some clear, sequestered fountain, in rising again into its superior atmosphere, gleams brightly in the sunlight, scattering profuse drops of the pure water, which glitter gem-like, so the soul of this fair girl, which has laved its bright plumage in the unpolluted fountain of holy purity, soars aloft, its unsullied whiteness shining in the light of truth, thoughts pure as the white radiance of unstained innocence, bright as the diamond-light which radiates from the diadems of kings, being scattered liberally around her, alone unconscious of their intrinsic value." 
               "Allan," said Mrs. Elliott, rousing him from this train of thought, "what are you dreaming of? Your thoughts must be pleasant, for a look of sweet contentedness beams from your eyes." 
               "I will be candid, mother," replied Allan, smiling. "I hope the subject of my meditations may be fortunate enough to meet your approbation. I was thinking of Miss Morris, trying to find something to which I might liken her." 
               "I can furnish you with a simile, without stopping to think twice," replied Mrs. Elliott; "but doubtless it has occurred to you. I am sure the lily-of-the-valley has often attracted you by its unpretending grace and modesty, and as this pensive, delicate flower, in its quiet seclusion, fills the circumambient air with soft perfumes, so this young Zenaida has around her an atmosphere of sweet thoughts and kind feeling, which unconsciously pervades and entrances the hearts of all who come within its influence." 
               "I must see her again," said Allan; "she has haunted me since I saw her at a concert some weeks since. When I pick up a book, her blue eyes and sunny ringlets come before me, hiding the letters from my sight-those eyes so irresistible with their look of appealing tenderness, and gentle melancholy. When I take up my pencil, no ideal of the beautiful is present before me; but this living type of beauty-this impersonation of the excellent in woman. When I seek to draw forth melodies in which my soul bathes as in a flood of golden radiance, her soft voice will now mingle with the strain-a voice so musically sweet, that I would follow, did it lead, as Asia and Panthea followed the spirit-voices which led them to the presence of Demogorgon." 
               "Allan," said his mother, "you are either already in love, or will be soon, irretrievably, with this little fay, who has bewitched us both. I, my son, am not, and will not be jealous of your love for her. I know that your heart cannot always be satisfied with the beautiful of its own creation, or with your love for me. I would not, could not resign my place in your heart, without murmuring, to every one; but I believe this fair child to be more deserving of the homage of your lofty spirit than any other that I know." 
               "Mother," replied Allan, deeply affected by her generous self-sacrifice in thus resigning the first place in his heart to another, "no other love shall ever come between me and thee; no other shall ever have power to monopolize the portion of my love which has been thine, and ever shall be." 
               "You are sincere, my son," she replied; "and I thank you; but this other love will, be like Aaron's rod, it will swallow up all others." 
                
               "Zenaida," said Helen, as she entered the darkening room where her sister sat, musing, "has any one been kind enough to step in and relieve your loneliness? I wish you had gone with me; for I have had a pleasant time-much more so than you, sitting here, dreaming dreams and seeing visions, in your old childish way." 
               "Waste not your sympathy on me," replied Zenaida, "but reserve it for some one who stands more in need of it than I do. I have seen a vision of surpassing beauty, so real that I conversed with, and obtained answers from the persons, besides receiving this token from one of the visitants. Is not this beautiful?" she said, holding up her flowers before Helen. 
               "That token proves that you are not bewitched and dreaming" said Helen, gayly; "but it also proves that you have had company. Was it Bruce, or Churchill?" 
               "Neither," replied Zenaida. "Mrs. Elliott, or mamma, as Arthur calls her, has been here; she regretted much that you were absent." 
               "Was she alone?" inquired Helen. 
               "No," she replied; "Mr. Allan was with her, and I have, at last, been honored with an introduction to him, of whom I have heard so much; of whom, from Arthur's remarks, I had been led to entertain a dread, almost equal to that with which the inhabitant of a besieged castle looks upon the able general of the besieging force." 
               "Well," questioned Helen, "have all your fears been dissipated by a 'blink o' his bonny een,' a word from his eloquent lips?" 
               "There is nothing very formidable-very alarming about him," replied Zenaida, as with a light step, she bounded up the stairs to her own room, where Helen heard her singing, softly, an old ballad that breathed of love. 
                
               "So," said Arthur, when she came down to supper, "you have held a parley with the redoubtable Elliott. Has the fortress capitulated at discretion, or hung out the signal of surrender? But, to drop the metaphorical, and speak in plain, prosaic language, what did you think of this young man?" 
               "My first impression is favorable," she answered; "but I will suspend final judgment upon his merits, until I am better acquainted with his innumerable attractions and accomplishments." 
                
               She bore her flowers to her room that night; she placed them in the window that the night air and dew might preserve their beauty; she bent above them, the soft moonlight raining upon her a shower of pure light, the night-breeze lifting the loose waves of bright hair from her white brow, and even as she gazed, tiny voices seemed to whisper from their fragrant hearts to hers, "Think of me as I have thought of you." Their mission was well fulfilled, and she did think of him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               SINCE the evening spent at Hawthornden, a change had come upon Churchill, which was evident to the most casual observer. 
               The words of Bruce Wilson had made an impression on him, which was deepened by his conversation with Zenaida. Her purity, her incorruptible truthfulness, her views of life, ennobling and inspiring, often recurred to him, and were contrasted painfully with his own heart, murmuring at the dispensations, the arrangements of an All-wise Providence-untrue to the highest, holiest principles, and aspirations of his soul. His desecration of talents, which he knew to be of no mean order, his listless apathy, his sinful self-indulgence, his wasted youth, all rose before him, and he was condemned at the bar of his own conscience. He blushed for his manhood, shamed by the superior worth and truth of this delicate girl, who, weak woman though she was, he doubted not, would bear, with the sublime heroism of a martyr, every trial that might be allotted to her in life, while he sat, with folded hands, and spirit overcome, at the very outset, by difficulties which, to a brave heart, would have been mere trifles. 
               When he thought of Zenaida he was overwhelmed by a sense of his own unworthiness, for he knew that she must regard him either with scorn or pity, and either was not to be endured by his proud, self-tortured spirit. He had often been spell-bound by the beauty of woman; but he believed that "the ladies," as a class, were heartless creatures, using their many charms to attract the admiration and homage of men, merely to feed the flame of vanity, which gratified itself at the expense of the noblest, most generous feelings of the human heart; revelling in tortures inflicted upon victims, watching with intense and smiling interest the writhings of agony; but no such accusation could his heart bring against Zenaida. She was kind, because her heart was gentle, and overflowing with love and sympathy for suffering human beings, her common brothers and sisters, and as a gentle angel did she minister where she saw that her ministrations were most needed. 
               To Frank she was a bright star, which beaconed to him, a storm-tossed mariner on life's boisterous ocean, from the undimmed heaven of her superior nature. His good angel had not deserted him; for the principles of truth within him were not dead but sleeping, and now that they were beginning to awake, this gentle ministrant spirit, whose eyes had been often wet with tears for him, lifted its head and smiled again, glad in the light of dawning hope. 
                
               "Zenaida," said Helen, "there is a note from Mrs. Bankhead. She is coming to see us to-morrow, and wishes you to be prepared to accompany her home to spend some days with her." 
               Zenaida took the note, and, after reading it, glanced out through the open door at the cheerful prospect. 
               "Mrs. Bankhead is very kind," she said to herself, "and I must go with her; but I would rather be in the country now, to watch the gradual unfolding of leaves and buds; the joyful resurrection of nature from the death-like sleep of winter." 
               "Will you go?" said Helen. 
               "Yes," she replied; "though I cannot possibly be persuaded to remain long." 
                
               When Mrs. Bankhead came, she found her prepared to accompany her home. 
               "It is kind in you, my dear," she said, "to take the light of your young, rosy life, and sweet, sunny smiles into my house, which is as thickly strewn with dead hopes as the forest-floors with the fallen leaves of autumn. The only flowers that bloom there are the perennial immortelles, gathered from graves where the grass grows green above young heads once as bright, above hearts once as fresh, as yours. They have been silent many years; but their spirit-forms still wander up and down through the chambers of my heart, where they used to dwell, waking its echoes like the wind that passes through the deserted castle, with a hollow, sepulchral sound." 
               
                  
                      
                        "'The wild rose may spring from a desolate rock, 
                        And shed, o'er its barrenness, sweetest perfume; 
                        And the oak that has felt the lightning's shock, 
                        May stand, and the ivy around it will bloom.' 
                     
                   So it is with the human heart, is it not, dear lady," said Zenaida, soothingly. 
               "Yes," she sighed; "they twine outwardly; but the heart within is dead and withered. But I must not cast the shadow dow of my old griefs upon your sunny head and heart; I will be gay with you, while you are with me." 
                
               As they were walking on the street, the first day of her sojourn in the city, they met Mrs. Elliott. 
               "My dear Miss Morris," she exclaimed, "when did you come to town?" 
               "This morning," replied Zenaida. 
               "She has come to spend some days with me," said Mrs. Bankhead. "I intend to try to render this visit so agreeable that she will be willing to come again." 
               "I will render you every assistance, my dear Sarah," said Mrs. Elliott. "I shall expect you to see me while you are in the city," she continued, turning to Zenaida. "I will not take any excuse, Sarah," addressing, Mrs. Bankhead; "I shall hold you accountable if she does not come." 
               "We will come, with pleasure," replied Mrs. B., and Zenaida smilingly assented. 
                
               "Allan," said his mother, when he came home, "Miss Morris is in the city, spending a few days with Mrs. Bankhead. I met them on the street this evening, and Sarah promised to bring her to see me while she is with her." 
               "The most agreeable piece of news I have heard to-day," replied Allan. "I have all day long been busy with rent-rolls, adding up dull lines of figures, and this intelligence comes across my mind as the soft cool breeze over the brow burning with fever, or as the murmuring of the bubbling fountain upon the ear of the traveler, parched with thirst in the arid plains of the desert." 
                
               The next morning Frank Churchill, passing the office of Arthur, and seeing him apparently disengaged, entered. In the course of a desultory conversation, he ascertained that Zenaida was in the city, and forthwith resolved to call upon her that evening. 
               Allan Elliott had also formed the same resolution; and the evening found them both at Mrs. Bankhead's. 
               "Zenaida," said that lady, when the gentlemen were announced, "you will have need of all your most bewitching smiles and brilliant conversation, if, unassisted, you entertain both Frank Churchill and Allan Elliott." 
               "I will try skirmishing with the light horse and artillery first," she replied, laughing; "and if I am beaten in that kind of an engagement, I will bring up my reserve." 
                
               They discussed many themes; and, at last, Frank raised a book from the table by which he was sitting. 
               "This is not one of my old friend's books," said he; "she does not read Shelley. Ah! it is yours, I see, Miss Morris. Is he a favorite of yours?" 
               "Yes," she replied; "I have for him a deep, compassionate admiration." 
               "Why do you regard him with pity?" said Frank; "his genius was of high order, and is now acknowledged and appreciated by all lovers of the ideal beautiful. He possesses a refinement of feeling, remarkable even in a poet; and the sweet measures of many favorite authors seem harsh, when compared with his dulcet strains." 
               "I admire his poetry-some-of it at least-as much as you; but there is a note of discord, an untuned string in his heart-harp. His soul was a chaos of beautiful thought, exquisite feeling, from which a world of unimagined glory might have sprung, if the spirit of God had but brooded o'er its depths." 
               "Why is it," said Frank, after a pause, "that so many of the most brilliant geniuses the world has ever produced were the most unhappy of men? Like the spider, which, out of its own resources, weaves a glittering web of burnished silver that gleams in the sunlight, they have woven from their own minds tissues of bright, imperishable thoughts; inwrapped in which they dazzle the understandings of their fellows with radiancy almost intolerable. But still dazzling as they may appear, high as they may soar before our admiring eyes, heights of unattainable glory shine far, far above, and many, with weary wing, seek again the level of the common earth above which they at first hung aloft disdainfully. They were continually seeking something necessary to happiness, which always eluded their grasp." 
               "Why is this so?" said Allan. "This is what you wish to know? Many of them were unhappy, because their souls, attuned to softest harmonies, were shocked by the rude din of less susceptible spirits; because their hearts, interpenetrated with love and all deep emotions, like delicate instruments, ready to vibrate harmoniously beneath the gentle hand of love, were crushed and tortured into discord by the rude touch of careless hands. The mere man of intellect suffers not thus. He towers above the level of ordinary humanity, as the lofty snow-capped mountain, in its glacial magnificence, towers above the valleys at its base,-cold and brilliant, awakening admiration, but appealing not to the softer emotions of the heart. Genius is elevated far above the level; but, like the mountain of less sublime altitude, covered with luxuriant verdure which testifies of the genial nature of the soil, it loves to be reflected in the heart of woman, as the mountain is reflected in the clear depths of the lake which nestles lovingly at its foot." 
               "Miss Morris," said Frank, "what do you think is the cause of this great unrest in the souls of these most gifted sons of earth?" 
               "My explanation is a most simple one," she replied. "Genius is the inspiration of God, who endows these bright souls, these great, nobly gifted human hearts, with lofty feelings, of which He is Himself the fountain. This unsatisfied longing, this ever-upward tendency, is the striving of the soul to reach its original source. They would soar to the Infinite, but are shackled by the frailties and passions of the finite; and the captives groan and chafe under this galling bondage. Like the doves that were sent forth from the ark, are these bright souls. They search over the wastes of the ocean of life for the olive-branch of peace, hope, and joy. Those who find it, return joyfully to the ark, the bosom of their Creator; those who do not, go mourning all their days, a prey to this unrest." 
               "But," said Frank, "many of those of whom we speak, believe not in the existence of this God, who endows them with the exquisite perceptions and intuitions of genius; who sends them forth from the ark of his love upon the ocean of life." 
               "True," said Zenaida, "they refuse to render homage to God to whom it is due; yet, by the constitution of their minds and hearts, there is upon them the necessity of worshiping; and the incense, which should be offered up gratefully to the Maker, is burned before idols of their own imaginings-the embodiments of their own abstract thoughts. They worship the beautiful, yet deny the source of all beauty." 
               Allan said nothing more; but diverted the conversation into another channel. He would not risk the favor of Zenaida by expressing his true sentiments. 
               "Miss Morris," he said, opening the piano, "will you not give us some music? I know your singing-voice must be sweet as Nourmahal's, when she had worn the enchanted coronal of flowers; for your voice in conversation is most musical." 
               "I would play for you with pleasure, Mr. Elliott," she said, blushing painfully at her deficiency, and sighing to think that she was unable to contribute to his gratification; "but, fortunately for your patience, I cannot play, though I love music with a passion not far from idolatry." 
               Elliott saw that she was in earnest; that the thoughts or emotions he had called forth were painful, and he did not renew his solicitations. 
               "My mother," he said, at parting, "bade me urge upon your consideration the speedy payment of a visit which she anticipates with much pleasure, as I do," he concluded, in an inaudible voice. 
               "Mrs. Bankhead," she replied, "has promised to go with me. Your mother's description of her home has fascinated me so, that I shall be unable to resist the temptations she presented, independent of her own society; for she promised mised to show me her flowers, pictures, and many other pretty things." 
                
               "I," said Frank sadly, to himself, as he walked away, "have no such treasures to open for her delighted inspection; but I will earn a name, which she shall not blush to write among her friends, or die in the attempt." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               "HERE, Zenaida," said Mrs. Bankhead, handing her a card, "is an invitation to join a small party at Mrs. Elliott's to-night. She thinks it will be more pleasant for you to be there with a party of young people, than with an old lady like herself; at least that is what she says in her note to me." 
               "She is very kind," said Zenaida, "to pay so much attention to an insignificant stranger like myself." 
               "You are too modest, my dear, in your estimate of yourself," said Mrs. Bankhead. "It is very evident that Mrs. Elliott does not think you an insignificant personage; and she is a good judge." 
                
               "Halloo, Churchill!" exclaimed the pleasant voice of Bruce Wilson, who, with Paul Anderson, was promenading leisurely along the street. Frank looked up as he was thus accosted, and seeing who it was, joined them, saying,- 
               "What now, Bruce?" 
                
               "I was just about to ask what is the matter with you," replied Bruce, "that you walk along in so brown a study, not recognizing an old friend until spoken to. Come, constitute me your father-confessor, and I will grant you absolution, if anything is weighing too heavily upon your tender conscience." 
               "I was thinking," said Frank, evasively. 
               "That is a self-evident proposition," replied Bruce; "and, unlike the propositions of Midshipman Easy's respected father and friends, admits of no dispute. It was upon the subject of your profound meditations that I wished to be enlightened." 
               "I cannot gratify that curiosity at present, how laudable soever it may be," said Frank, decisively; "my thoughts would fail to interest you." 
               "Had they not some reference to la belle Morris?" persisted Bruce. 
               "Bruce, my good fellow," interrupted Paul, "don't be so pertinacious. Churchill does not intend to tell you, so it is useless to persecute him with so many questions." 
               "Thank you, for reminding me that I was going too far," replied Bruce; "but curiosity is the besetting sin of myself,-and many other human beings, ever since Eve ate the apple, to find out how many seeds there were inside of it." 
               "By-the-way," said Frank, "are you going to Elliott's impromptu party to-night? You ought to go, Bruce, for it is given in honor of her whom you call 'la belle Morris.'" 
               "Certainly, I am going," replied Bruce. "The whole combined constabulary force of this delectable city could not prevent me from going; for, if there are no rivals in the field, Elliott will establish an undisputed claim to the attentions of Miss Morris." 
               "You had better be upon your guard," said Paul; "for if you out-general Elliott you will have to get up early in the morning. He is just the kind of man to please most ladies, independent of his money and that exquisite place of his,-to be the mistress of which is sufficient temptation to any of the mercenary fair ones." 
               "I believe you wrong Miss Morris," said Frank, hastily, "when you accuse her of being capable of acting from an unworthy motives. There are many that do act thus; but-" 
               "She is not,' E pluribus unum,' one of 'em," said Bruce. "I do not wish to quarrel with Elliott, for he is a good fellow, generous as a prince, bestowing largely of his superabundance to feed the hungry, and clothe those who are exposed to the inclemency of the seasons without the protection of garments." 
               "Does that recommend him to you?" queried Paul, with an incredulous smile. "You are a 'rara avis,' Bruce, when a man is about to rob you of your Palladium, the sacred image enshrined in the temple of your heart, to think of consoling yourself with the reflection that he is good to the poor,-ergo, that he is more worthy of her than you could hope to be!" 
               "I have not resigned all hopes yet," replied Bruce. "If he is really pleased with her, I must appoint a committee of ways and means to decide what desperate act I must have recourse to, to prevent his success. I suppose I will have to pick a quarrel with him; challenge him to fight a duel; suffer myself to be slightly killed, that I may effectually excite the commiseration of this charmante femme." 
               "Bruce," said Paul, "don't you want something to drink? You must be thirsty after talking so much. If so, come along, you and Churchill, and I'll treat you." 
               "I am ready, and willin' as Barkis," replied Bruce; "but I do not want anything stronger than lager." 
               "A wonderful change has come over the spirit of your dream since yesterday," said Paul. "What is the matter?" 
               "I'm a gittin' good," whimpered Bruce, "as the little boy said when his mother gave him a whipping, and locked him up in a closet, from which the beautiful light of day was wholly excluded." 
               "Come, Frank," said Paul, "what will you have?" 
               "Excuse me, if you please," said Frank, coloring deeply. "I do not wish to drink anything." 
               "Well," whistled Bruce, "'there are more things in heaven and earth, than are dreamed of in my philosophy;' but I will never be astonished at any phenomenon again, since Francis Churchill has refused to drink, will not take even a glass of lager. I have not been as much surprised since the days when my father used to tell me (and I believed it) that I would find a pot full of gold, if I would dig at the exact point where the rainbow touched the earth." 
               "Reserve your raillery for some more opportune season, Bruce," said Frank, sternly, as the flush died out of his face. "I am not jesting. I am determined not to drink any more. I have done it too long already," he said, bitterly. 
               "Joined the Sons," queried Bruce, "or given a pledge to la belle?" 
                
               "I would like to get angry with you, Bruce," said Frank, "if I could. I would like to knock you down for your impertinence, but I believe you are a good fellow, and I will not punish you for these errors, which are the result of thoughtlessness." 
               "'Twould not be worth the trouble to knock him down," said Paul. "He is not an accountable being, and must not be held amenable to the laws that govern common mortals. There's a screw loose somewhere in his head, and, entre nous, he is not right here," and Paul touched his forehead. 
               "Deeply indebted for your kindness in exempting me from all the penalties attached to my misdeeds. As I am granted all the privileges of the ancient jesters, I must don my livery, and cry, with the meditative Jacques, 'Motley's the only wear.' But, mon cher Frank, you did not answer my questions just now, and I will repeat them, as I can do so with impunity." 
               "Well, then, if you must know," replied Frank, "I have neither joined the Sons nor given a pledge to Miss Morris; but I have registered a vow in my own soul, and it shall be as sacred and inviolable as if the pledge had been signed in presence of a multitude." 
               "Congratulate you; and that you may hold out faithful unto the end, is the prayer of brother Bruce Wilson." 
               "Incorrigible boy!" said Frank. 
               "Who told you to call me a boy?" said Bruce, with assumed indignation. "Is not my coat-tail as long as yours? Haven't I as handsome whiskers as you? Can I not consume as many Havanas as you? Can I not sit through as long a sermon as you without falling asleep? Boy, indeed!" he continued, with an accent indicative of the most supreme contempt; "next thing, I suppose, you will be advising me to return to my anxious maternal relative, who may be ignorant that I am out." 
               "Good morning, Bruce Rex," said Frank; "I will beat a precipitate retreat, before you grow dangerous." 
               "I'll placard him, as they did David Copperfield when he was sent to school, if he does not subside to a more reasonable temperature," said Paul; "for his very beard is curling with ire, like Hassan's." 
               "Don't be absurd, Paul!" said Bruce, imitating a tone and manner closely allied to Paul's on similar occasions. "Good-by, Churchill," he continued; "the best of friends must part; but 'when shall we three meet again?' To-night, at Elliott's?" 
               "I do not know that I shall go," replied Frank. "I'll see about it." 
                
               The evening came, the guests assembled at Mrs. Elliott's, the few who were honored with invitations congratulating themselves upon their good fortune; for rarely did the "Fairy Bower" resound with mortal revelry. The young ladies decked themselves with more than usual care, and summoned their brightest looks and sweetest smiles, with which they hoped to make an impression upon the hitherto insensible heart of Allan Elliott; but his eyes saw only one sweet face; his ear was attentive but to the music of one voice, the breath of which passed over his heart-strings, drawing forth olian harmonies. 
               "Miss Morris," he said, after some time had elapsed, "will you allow me to show you something which I think very beautiful?" 
               Zenaida gave a smiling assent. 
               "Come with me, then," he continued. 
               The doors were all thrown open, the rooms brilliantly lighted; but Allan passed through them into the conservatory, where the flowers gleamed softly in the still moonlight. Some had closed their bright eyes in sleep; but others hung lovingly above the still form of the beautiful Flora, like guardian-spirits, unwearied in their watchful love. 
               Zenaida gazed with delight upon the scene, and its beauty bringing vividly before her the description in the Epipsychidion-the words fell from her lips by an irresistible impulse,- 
                      
                        "The ivy and the wild-vine interknit 
                        The volumes of their many twining stems; 
                        Parasite flowers illumine, with dewy gems, 
                        The lampless hall; and when they fade, the sky 
                        Gleams through the thick woof of their tracery 
                        With moonlight patches, or star-atoms keen, 
                        Or fragments of the day's intense serene, 
                        Working mosaic on the Parian floors." 
                     
                  
                
               "Ah!" said Allan, a bright smile of pleasure illuming his face, "that beautiful quotation is most appropriate;" and, in the spirit of this poem, he continued the quotation,- 
                      
                        "This isle and house are mine, and I have vow'd 
                        Thee to be lady of its solitude." 
                     
                   Then, seeing the blush that mantled Zenaida's cheek, he exclaimed, "Pardon me, Miss Morris. I was too abrupt!" 
                
               "Certainly," she replied, smiling. "I will pardon this ebullition of your enthusiasm; for the spirit of enchantment broods over this scene, and no one, within its charmed circle, ought to be held responsible for his words. It is the garden of Armida; and that," she said, hinting to the statue, "is the faint image of the lovely enchantress; the bright creation of the poet's dream." 
               "And I,' said Allan, struck by a sudden thought, "I am Rinaldo, bound by rosy chains, and thralled by the seductive, overpowering, sweetness of this place; and, like him, wasting my noblest powers in a seclusion, which is not the otium cum dignitate to which I ought to aspire in later years, after the battle of life has been fought and won. Miss Morris, I thank you, as Rinaldo did his friends, for bringing the bright mirror of truth, and showing me to myself in a true light." 
               "Nay," replied Zenaida, "I am entirely innocent of such intention. I, as you say, 'thralled by the sweetness of the place,' merely made a comparison, and from this suggestion you have deduced a personal application, of which I thought not." 
               "Thought is electric," said Allan; "and a casual word or idea often vibrates through the mind as the shock of a galvanic battery through the body. But, Miss Morris," be continued, as several ladies and gentlemen invaded their retreat, "we are no longer alone, and for me the spell of the place is broken." 
               He turned to retrace his steps to the rooms where the company had been assembled, and at the door, encountered Bruce, who looked quite disconsolate. Having saluted the pair, whom any one else would have permitted to pass without interruption, Bruce exclaimed,- 
               "My dear Elliott! excuse me for interrupting you; but I must tell you, that I am opposed to your monopoly of Miss Morris, the bright star, which has been eclipsed all the evening by your interposition. I wish, Elliott," he continued, "you could be persuaded to give us some music. I have heard many rumors of your proficiency as a performer, but have never had an opportunity of deciding whether these rumors are correct." 
               "Ah, Bruce!" said Elliott, with an arch smile, "you are but an indifferent diplomat. Your strategies are too apparent. You must excuse me from exhibiting, for the amusement of the crowd, my skill in an accomplishment which, no doubt, is much overrated by rumor, which I cultivate solely for my own gratification." 
               He drew himself up proudly, and would have passed without further parley; but Bruce exclaimed,- 
               "I think that very selfish in you, Elliott, to waste all this sweetness on the unappreciative air." 
               "I am the best judge of my own actions," he replied. "Will you permit Miss Morris to pass, Mr. Wilson? She is, doubtless, heartily weary of this most unprofitable and uninteresting discussion." 
               "On the contrary, I am much interested," she said; for her kind, gentle heart was pained by the vexation so apparent in Bruce's generally unclouded face. As she moved on with Elliott, she bowed, and her kindly smile instantly dispelled the gloom which threatened to overshadow Bruce. 
               "Well," soliloquized he, as he watched their receding, forms, "he has not yet secured all her smiles to himself, and I will yet compensate myself for this night's disappointment." 
               "So, Bruce, my dear fellow," said Paul Anderson, coming forth from a shadowed nook, from which he had witnessed the discomfiture of Bruce, "I must condole with you. The eagle has flown away with your dove, and you, unfortunate that you are, are here gazing after them in their flight, as if some powerful genie had bound you to the spot by a spell of magic-poor fellow!" 
               "Well," replied Bruce, "''tis true, and pity 'tis, 'tis true,' My case does look rather desperate. In the horoscope of my nativity there was, at this crisis, a conjunction of unpropitious planets; but 'while there is life there is hope;' and, you know, I am by nature as elastic as if I were composed of India-rubber. If I fall, I always rebound." 
               "A disposition truly enviable," said Paul; "upon the possession of which I congratulate you most sincerely; for it is my private opinion, publicly expressed, that you will need all the consolations it can afford you in this emergency." 
               "Come," said Bruce, "let us go and spy out the beauties of this land of the blest, over which my beautiful inamorata may, one day, reign supreme. It is a realm, the sceptre of which ought to be swayed by a fairy like her. When she is queen here, I will be one of her courtiers." 
               "Bruce!" exclaimed Paul, "I believe that you belong to a class denominated Salamanders by Steele and Addison; for you go unscathed through fires which consume many wiser men than you. The flame of love plays around your heart innocuous as the lambent flame around the brow of Ascanius, the grandson of Anchises." 
               "Better that than, moth-like, to singe my wings in every flame," responded Bruce, sententiously. 
               Paul continued, as if trying to solve a problem: "He is either so shallow, that he is incapable of any deep emotion; or so deep, that, like the unfathomable sea, the winds of passion have no power to stir but the outward surface of his nature; the inmost depths remaining calm." 
               "Now you have hit the right nail on the head, Saulus, my boy," said Bruce, approvingly. "You have portrayed my character with a pencil dipped in the spray from the deep fountain of Truth, who, we are told, lives at the bottom of a well; and, according to my notion, displays queer taste in the selection of a habitation." 
               "By the thirty thousand deities of Rome!" said Paul, "I swear that you are-" 
               "Hold!" ejaculated Bruce, with a prolonged whistle; "I've heard many oaths; but that's the most 'hifalutin' one that ever fell upon 'the tin-pan of my auriculars,' as either Mrs. Partington or Mother Goose says-I forget which." 
               "Is Churchill here?" asked Paul; "I have not seen him." 
               "No," replied Bruce; "he has refused to grace the halls of his rival with his lofty presence. He does not practice 'love's divine self-abnegation,' as I do. But he had as well 'hang his harp on the willows,' that it may sigh forth mournful numbers, in concert with my own." 
                
               "Yes, said Paul; "he is poor; and if he were to address this fair one, she would certainly ask,- 
                      
                        'Will the love that you're so rich in, 
                        Make a fire in the kitchen; 
                        Or the god of Love turn the spit?'" 
                     
                  
                
               "I wish Frank had heard you then," replied Bruce; "he would have knocked you down without any compunctious after-visitations of conscience; for your assertion is an unmitigated slander." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               THE next morning, a bouquet of beautiful flowers, with the compliments of Allan Elliott, was handed to Zenaida. 
               The red rose, blushing with its declaration of love; the geranium, declaring his preference; the myrtle, which whispered of "love in absence," and many others of similar signification, were blended in one beautifully harmonious combination, appealing to the heart of Zenaida. 
               "In the East they do tell their loves in flowers;" and Allan had chosen this Eastern medium of communication. 
               "What an exquisite bouquet!" exclaimed Mrs. Bankhead, as she took it from the hand of Zenaida. "Allan," she continued, "is a beau worth having-as he has so many pretty things at his disposal!" 
               "There," she said, "is a ring at the door. Who can it be?" 
                
               The servant brought up a card, inscribed Bruce Wilson, G. L.;" and said, as he gave it to his mistress,-"Please marm, Mr. Wilson wishes to see Miss Morris." 
               "What in the world does that wild boy mean by these initial letters, G. L., after his name?" 
               "They stand for 'gentleman of leisure,' I suppose," said Zenaida, laughing; "I never heard that he had any kind of occupation." 
               "That is it," replied Mrs. Bankhead. "Well, Zenaida, you have completely bewitched our young gentlemen,-the gay, the grave, the studious, and the one of leisure. What art do you possess?" 
               "I have no art," she replied, earnestly. 
               "Or, if you have, you have also the ars celare artem. Do not stop to refute this insinuation," said the lady. "I was jesting; for know that you are perfectly sincere, conscientious, even in the practice of the little feminine arts and wiles of coquetry." 
                
               "Miss Morris," said Bruce, in a subdued tone, with an assumed look of patient resignation and endurance that would have done credit to an Indian votary beneath the wheels of the car of Juggernaut, "I come this morning to appeal to you, against yourself, for the manner in which you treated me last night; me, your devoted slave and humble admirer." 
               "For mercy's sake, Mr. Wilson!" exclaimed Zenaida, "tell me what I have done, and do not, I beseech you, look at me so like, the 'Knight of the Rueful Countenance;' I was not aware that I had done the things which I ought not to have done, or left undone the things which I ought to have done; but, if you will convince me that I have injured you in any way, I will make all due reparation." 
               "In the first place," said Bruce, "the first charge which I find against you in my bill of indictment is, that you have caused me a most grievous disappointment. I went to Mrs. Elliott's solely for the sake of seeing you; and I caught only an occasional glimpse of you as you walked or talked with Elliott. I felt very much as Adam and Eve did, after their abrupt exodus from Eden, when they peeped through the bars of the gate or the cracks of the fence, at the angels promenading in their old pleasure-grounds, and I should have been buried inextricably in the 'Slough of Despond,' had it not been for a look, you cast graciously upon me, as you passed, as a charitable person throws a bone to a hungry specimen of the genus canis." 
               "Nonsense, Mr. Wilson!" replied Zenaida, laughing; "but, as you think the evidence sufficiently strong, despite its circumstantial nature, to convict me, what judgment do you wish me to pronounce upon myself?" 
               "Of course," said Bruce, "you plead guilty to having preferred the society of Elliott to that of myself; and the court decides that you shall ride with Bruce Wilson, and thereby 'pour some of the healing balm of consolation' upon his heart, wounded by your cruelty. Has the prisoner at the bar anything to say, wherefore this sentence should not be carried into execution?" 
               "No," replied Zenaida; "this most merciful sentence of the honorable judiciary tribunal meets with my approbation. When is it to be executed?" 
                
               "Without delay," responded Bruce; "I wish that you ride on horseback, an' it pleases you." 
               "I prefer that mode to any other," said she; "but my riding-dress is at Hawthornden; I did not expect that it would be called into requisition during my short sojourn in the city." 
               "I will send for it," said Bruce. "It will take but a few minutes to get it." 
               He immediately went to find a messenger, and most opportunely met one of the family servants on the street. 
               "Here, Pluto, you infernal scamp,-that isn't saying bad words; it's just the meaning of your name,-" he said, "I want you to go out into the country a couple of miles. Take this note and give it to Mrs. Bernard, and be back again in three shakes of a sheep's tail. Do you hear?" 
               "Yes, I hears, Massa Bruce," replied Pluto; "but ole Marse, if he catch me, will give dis nigger such a lickin' that dis hide won't hold shucks." 
               "Never mind that," said Bruce. 
               "But I does mind," persisted Pluto, "an' so would you, Massa Bruce." 
               "I'll tell father I sent you," said Bruce, "so go along. You know he never whipped you in his life, you fit inhabitant for the Castle of Indolence." 
               His objections being finally removed, Pluto took his departure, and, after an hour and a half had elapsed, which seemed a century to the impatient Bruce, he returned with the hat and riding dress of Zenaida. 
               Bruce was now compelled to defer his ride until after dinner; but he sent the dress to Zenaida, and informed her that he would call for her at four o'clock. The appointed hour found him at Mrs. Bankhead's, and when Zenaida came down equipped for riding, Bruce thought he had never seen her look so well. 
               "You ought always to wear that costume," he said, gallantly; "it is so becoming. I cannot endure to see a lady ride in a bonnet of any description; for these exquisite little bouquets, which, in common parlance, are dignified with the appellation of 'dress-bonnets,' are eternally slipping off, and a long bonnet hides the face too much." 
               "What a beautiful horse you have for me!" exclaimed Zenaida. "It is very wild, I suppose." 
               "Fleet as the wild horse which bore Mazeppa across the desert, or the winged steeds that draw the chariots of the hours," replied Bruce; "but docile and gentle as a lamb." 
               He assisted her to mount, and vaulting lightly into his own saddle, they were soon in motion. Bruce saw that Zenaida was an elegant and graceful equestrienne, and so directed his course by Elliott's, that he might arouse that gentleman's jealousy, and retaliate upon him for the advantage he had gained over him on the preceding evening; but Elliott was not visible. They soon left the city behind them, and Zenaida became much interested in the observation of the country through which they passed, which she had not seen before. 
                
               "Mr. Wilson," she said, "what is the name of this noble animal? I always address my horse as if it were a sentient being, and I must know its name." 
               "That one," replied Bruce, "is named Dare-devil, after the celebrated quadruped appertaining to the renowned Brom Bones." 
               "And yours?" questioned Zenaida. 
               "Mine," he answered, "is called Don Bobtail Fandango, after a mythical personage I read about somewhere. You will perceive that this euphonious appellative is most appropriate, from the fact that a portion of his caudal appendage has been amputated." 
               "But," said Zenaida, "that name is inconveniently lengthy." 
               "It is easily abbreviated," replied Bruce, demurely. "His familiar cognomen is 'Robert Narrative.'" 
               "That," she said, stealing a curious look at the oddity beside her, "is a most uncommon name." 
               "Therefore it pleases my fancy," he replied. "I do not like anything that is common. I admire you much more, with your name, than I would if it were Polly, or Kitty, or Susy, or Peggy. I do not like any flowers but exotics rich and rare, unless they were culled by your fair hands. That would give a value in my eyes to sunflowers and hollyhocks, but it would be wholly extrinsic. You have not the power, like Rex Midas, to transmute everything into gold; but you possess the power to render even the most worthless things to me more valuable than all the gold of California." 
               "I would test your sincerity, if I could," replied Zenaida; "but now that it would be found wanting." 
               "I'll swear-" began Bruce. 
               "Swear not," she interrupted, "'neither by the heaven, for it is God's throne; nor by the earth, for it is His footstool.'" 
                
               "Well, then, I will affirm that I but spoke the truth," he said. 
               "To how many ladies have you made this same affirmation," inquired Zenaida, gayly. 
               "To not more than fifty," replied conscientious Bruce. 
               "I admire your candor, though it speaks but little in favor of your constancy," she said, laughingly. 
               "I never before have found the cynosure of my eyes, the load-star of my destiny; but now my heart shall be true to thee as the needle to the pole, and 
                      
                        'Thou shalt still be adored, as this moment thou art, 
                        Let thy loveliness fade as it will; 
                        And around the dear ruin each wish of my heart 
                        Shall entwine itself verdantly still.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "That is a very pretty theory," replied Zenaida; "but it is not often reduced to practices I can refute the words of one poet with those of another:- 
                      
                        'What is a poet's love? 
                        To write a girl a sonnet; 
                        To get a ring, or some such thing, 
                        And versify upon it.' 
                     
                   This is fact, while yours is fiction." 
               "Oh, fair skeptic!" said Bruce; "you will yet find out, that truth may be stranger than fiction." 
                
               She returned from her ride with glowing cheeks and sparkling eyes, and, when she entered the room Mrs. Bankhead exclaimed- 
               "Why, my dear, you are positively radiant. A ride on horseback is certainly the most excellent cosmetic that ever was invented, and I shall hereafter recommend it as a beautifier of the complexion to all my young lady friends." 
               "A ride is delightful," replied Zenaida, "especially when one has for a companion a person so tragi-comic as Bruce Wilson. I never know when he is serious." 
               "He does not know himself," said Mrs. Bankhead; "but I think, my dear, you had better stay some time with me. You appear to enjoy yourself very much; and, I assure you, I will be unfeignedly glad to have your company." 
               "I cannot stay longer at present," replied Zenaida. "Arthur will call for me to-morrow; but you must come out to Hawthornden to stay some time with us, to eat strawberries, and enjoy the unfolding beauties of this sweet season." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               MAY, robed in rich garments of emerald, embroidered thickly with the gold and white jessamine stars, mingled with roses looped in glowing festoons, crowned with a diadem of translucent rain-drops, quivering with intense light, as if a living spirit of bright parti-colored flame were imprisoned in each clear-sphered orb, tripped o'er the land. Sweet sounds, soft as angel whispers, floated round her, as the music of the delicate Ariel round the shipwrecked upon Prospero's enchanted island, and from her fragrant breath the air was redolent with sweet-odors. 
                
               Many times had Zenaida seen and conversed with Allan Elliott, and, almost insensibly, his beautiful thoughts, his refined sentiments, had wrought a spell of fascination over her. He sympathized with her in her love of the beautiful; he encouraged her in the expression of sweet thoughts and feelings, which, almost unknown to her, lurked in the secret hiding places of her soul. The most delicate, etherealized thought or fancy might be communicated to him without the apprehension of being misunderstood, through want of sensibility on his part. He read to her favorite books, bringing to view undiscovered beauties in their familiar pages, illuminated by the clear light of his sympathetic genius, his penetrating mind,-as the sun discovers even the most minute points in the landscape, obscured by mists before his rising. The written thoughts, which had been hidden from all eyes, as the bright gems in the unfathomed abysses of ocean, were brought forth for her inspection, and of those which were yet to be written, she was made the muse, the inspiration. Her face grew into proportions so beautiful beneath his pencil, that with the inanimate image, Pygmalion-like, he fell in love until he looked again upon the original, which transcended every effort of his art. 
               Now, in the afternoon of this May-day, they sit together under the shadow of the wide-spreading hawthorns, from which the place was named. The trees are covered with delicate white blossoms, thrown over them like a bridal veil of costly lace of exquisite texture, hanging in graceful folds almost to the ground, and forming an odorous canopy above the heads of the pair who sat beneath. The turf, the golden-brown hair of Zenaida, and her black dress were sprinkled thickly with the falling flowers which rained down in a shower of fragrance from the overhanging branches, waving in the freshening breeze, the avant-courier of a storm. The massy clouds, like huge black ships, swept across the blue deep of heaven, freighted with blessings or destruction, the occasional flash and boom of the signal guns announcing the combat about to begin. 
               Zenaida watched the gradual approach of these belligerent squadrons, the darkening of the earth from which the sunshine and blue sky were shut out by the interposition of their black hulks; but at length, turning to Allan, whose eyes were upon her, she said,- 
               "I love the storm in its sublimity and awe-inspiring grandeur; but, from the appearance of these clouds, I think this one will be unusually severe. Come into the house, and from its shelter we may look forth upon this elemental strife. See!" she continued, "the sky grows more dark, the wind more fierce." 
               As she spoke, a flash of lightning, a blaze of intolerable radiancy, blinded her eyes, and they hastened into the house. 
               Zenaida's prophecy proved to be correct. The rain poured in torrents; the winds raged violently, like the torrent which has derived fresh impetus from the rains of spring, bearing down, with resistless force, opposing objects. Boughs, which refused to bend, were broken, and many a lordly tree was bowed to the earth, its coronal of fresh green leaves soiled with the stains of miry clay. Those that were left, seeing them fall, tossed their branching arms wildly, and shrieked forth in uncontrollable agony, quivering visibly to their heart's core. 
                
               Zenaida stood near the window, and Allan was by her side. 
               "Miss Morris," he said, at last, "what can have roused the anger of the cruel Juno? The winds are loosed from the cave of olus, blowing from every direction, as they did when the fleet of the pious neas was spattered upon the Tyrrhenian Sea. But," he continued, seeing the earnest thoughtfulness of her face, "you are not thinking of Juno, or the cave of olus, or the misfortunes of the future founder of the Latin race." 
               "No," she replied; "I was thinking of the storm described in the book of Job,-listening for the voice of God in the thundering of lightning, feeling the breath of his mouth in this gale, which bends old trees like reeds before its might." 
               "For once," said Allan, "I must say that I do not, and cannot sympathize with you, for no such voice is audible to my ear; and call me skeptic if you will, but, I must confess, that I believe that it never existed, never was heard, save by persons of highly excitable, keenly imaginative minds, constituted like your own. As the cave of olus, the anger of the Goddess, were the offspring of the poet's fertile fancy, so it is simply reasonable to suppose that this voice of the Creative Deity, for which you are so intently listening, emanated from the same inexhaustible source. There were poets among the Hebrews as well as among the Greeks and Latins, and we must make allowance for their poetic license, of which they, doubtless, availed themselves, to its fullest extent." 
               "You do not believe, then," said Zenaida, sorrowfully, recoiling coiling as if smitten by the thunder-bolt, "that this 'still, small voice' was ever audible to mortal ears; that this Almighty Power is the Pilot who guides the storm-clouds, which, in obedience to His commands, have covered the blue of heaven with a veil of thick darkness, pouring out this refreshing flood upon the earth?" 
               "No," replied Allan, "I do not believe it. These clouds are directed by the immutable laws of Nature; they are formed by exhalations from the earth and sea, and are above us now, piloted by the winds. It has been warm to-day, the heated air ascended, the winds, from other points, rushed in to fill the vacuum, and the clouds were borne along with them. When I speak non-poetically, I account for the phenomenon we now witness, in this plain way." 
               "Nature and God, in my vocabulary," said Zenaida, sadly, are synonymous terms, and these immutable laws of which you speak are the dicta of Omnipotence. You study effects, but are blind to the cause of these effects. How can there be laws without a lawgiver-a law-maker? Why do the winds, the waves, the clouds, obey, unless they recognize a Power which has created them, and has the right to command their services?" 
               "Take care, most beautiful of theologians," said Allan; do not wade in the deep waters; do not corrugate the smooth whiteness of that unruffled brow with the wrinkles of abstract thought; do not compress so firmly those rosy lips, which were made for smiles and the expression of sweet thoughts." 
               "Ah!" she replied, "I see that you wish to waive the discussion of this subject; but I am not so easily to be diverted. Oh! Mr. Elliott," she said, with quivering lip and tearful eye, "it is sad, most sad, to think that to you, to whom all other books, the works of frail, human beings like ourselves, are so familiar, this Divine book, the source from which all true wisdom flows, should still be a sealed volume, the Divine character of which is, by you, unrecognized." 
               "I am not so ignorant of its contents as you suppose," replied Allan. "I have read the whole, and have been thrilled with admiration at the elevated sentiments and deep poetic fervor of the prophets." 
               "But it was only with admiration for the beauty of diction and sublimity of imagery that you read, not with love and reverence for the Being whom it displays, in condescending mercy and long-suffering kindness; who raises us from the depths of despairing degradation, and places us upon the pinnacles of supreme happiness. Alas! for your spiritual eyes are blinded by the thick veil of unbelief, so that you cannot discern the truth in its beautiful proportions." 
               "I would give all that I possess," said Allan, "could I place, upon the promises of this Book, the firm reliance of many, or yield credence to its miracles, to the history of Him whom you hail the Saviour of the world. But, no; I retract. I do not wish to fetter my free spirit by any chains; I will not surrender myself to the dominion of this superstition; I will not be the vassal, or swear allegiance to any spiritual authority." 
               "That which you call bondage, is true liberty," replied Zenaida; "and, instead of chains, forged by the Beneficent Power, to fetter the wings of the spirit, He furnishes you with wings, borne up by which you may soar far beyond all bounds conceived by the finite wind of man; wings which would lift you higher than you may ever hope to soar upon your Ddal pinions, the fabrication of your own daring imagination." 
               "It may be even so, as you say," replied Allan, gazing admiringly into her soul-lit eyes, and face glowing with holy enthusiasm; "but I lack faith." 
               "Look!" said Zenaida, pointing to the scene spread out before them. "Can you behold this display of love and power unmoved? Can you yet refuse to bow in homage before Him, who dyes the earth and sky with this deep glory?" 
               The clouds had poured out their treasures, and were now piled in huge, black masses athwart the east. "Sublime rested the heavens above the earth; a rainbow arched itself, like the ring of eternity, upon the dark back-ground of cloud. The storm, with broken wings, passed with a weary thundering beneath the colored Eden-gate of the east, and the evening sun gazed after it through its tears; and its glances rested on the triumphal arch of Nature." 
               The whole earth and sky were bathed in a flood of golden light, diffusing over all things a soft radiance, giving them a look of etherealized, unearthly beauty. The pools of water, pellucid gems dropped from the coronal of the angel of the storm, gleamed like burnished gold; the fresh foliage of the tall trees reflected the same radiance caught from the glory of the sky, the reality of which surpassed imagination and defied description. Tall pillars of cloud of ebon blackness, crowned with wreaths of diamond-light, were beside others, mantled in purple of such rich depth of tinting, that the regal hues of earth paled in comparison. Others were clad in robes of fiery crimson, bordered with fleecy ermine whiteness and fringes of gleaming silver, while others wore the soft, rosy flush of morning's earliest dawn. 
               "Behold!" said Zenaida, softly, "that glorious arch of promise! Oh that it recalled to thee the covenant of God! that it could speak to thy heart of His faithfulness and truth!" 
               "I find," replied Allan, "that you are skilled in this language of Nature, of which, it seems, I am most lamentably ignorant; so whenever I need an interpreter I shall call upon you." 
               "You are jesting still, but I am earnest," she said, raising her eyes appealingly to his. 
                
               As the sun sank, some lines of cloud collected as if they would hide his light; but the burning eye glanced through to take a loving, lingering look upon the beautiful earth, like the eye of the prisoner through the iron bars of his grated window. With his departure, the bright magic hues faded from the earth and sky. The clouds dispersed, and the deep, smiling blue of heaven was again seen, unstained, save by a few light particles of snowy-white vapor. 
               A deep, holy calm succeeded the wild commotion of the evening; and soon the moon walked forth majestically, casting looks of wondering admiration upon the Earth, who had emerged with brightened loveliness from her bath of sparkling water. 
               Allan still lingered, and his voice, attuned to sweetest harmony, spoke of his love. The words, which would have awakened once a glad answering echo in the heart of Zenaida, now passed over its chords, not indeed mute, but vibrating with a wail of mournful sadness, like the strings of the wind-swept harp. 
               "Can I," she said, in self-communion, "a creature, count upon the enduring love of this nobly-gifted being, by whom his Creator's claims are unacknowledged? He holds himself amenable to no higher law than the impulses of his own heart. I will, God helping me, use my influence over him for the good of his own soul. I will endeavor to undermine the foundations of this castle of unbelief in which he has intrenched himself, fondly believing that his fortress is impregnable. Poor Allan! God grant that thou mayest not be cut off in the glory of thy youthful beauty, while thy heart is still insensible to His love!" 
               That night her pillow was wet with tears, and many prayers were breathed for him who prayed not for himself. 
               She dreamed that she stood with an expectant throng, who waited the appearing of the Son of Man. He came amid the glory of his spiritual brightness, surrounded by tens of thousands of angels, who hymned his praises. She was by Allan's side, her hand clasped in his; but, as she gazed, she was raised above the dissolving earth, and borne away, away from him, whom her soul loved. Quivering with intense emotion, she awoke; but this dream haunted her; she knew that it was not without a deep signification, and she shuddered as she thought. 
               The rose of love, which she had gathered in the garden of life, was not without its sharp thorn. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               A FEW days passed, and Zenaida sat again beneath the hawthorn-tree; but Allan was not there. She had been reading a book, presented by him; and its margins, penciled by his hand, spoke eloquently to her; but the book had now fallen from her hand: her eyes were fixed in pensive abstraction. 
               The bees murmured softly in the flower-laden branches above; but she listened not to the hum of their cheerful conversation. A little bright-eyed bird perched above her, chirping some sweet, clear notes; failing to gain her attention, he turned his pretty head first on one side, then on the other, regarding her curiously-then he broke off a little bloomy twig, and, taking good aim, dropped it in her lap; but she did not look up. 
               She was thinking deeply and sadly. She loved Elliott; but not with the reverential love of which she had dreamed. His mental superiority, his exquisite taste and deep feeling, commanded her admiration and appealed irresistibly to her sympathy. His mind was a rich mine, and she delighted to explore its depths, to bring to light its hidden treasures,-the flashing diamonds of wit,-the soft, bright pearls of poesy,-the glowing rubies of loving and tender thoughts. She would have taken the thorns from his pathway, and twined them into a coronal of her own white brow, that he might enjoy the fragrance and beauty of life without its piercing griefs. 
               But her love was mingled with pity; for she saw him, who was in many things her superior, bound with the chains of spiritual darkness, while her own soul reveled in the clear light of unveiled truth. He was blinded by the mists of earth, while she soared far above their chilling influence, basking in the warmth of the sun from which her soul drew light and life, as the flowers from the sun of the material universe. 
               While she sat thus, she heard not the roll of wheels, and noticed not the stately equipage which drew up, proudly, before the gate. She was roused by hearing her name called. 
               "Miss 'Naida," said Joanna, for it was she; "Miss Helen say, 'will you please fur to come into de parlor?'" 
               "Who is there?" asked Zenaida. 
               "Miss Florida," replied Joanna; "Marse Arthur's sister; an' if you never seed her, I'll tell you, she is the beautifullest lady, you ever laid your two eyes on; but she's made hersef mighty scace since we bin livin' here." 
               "I have seen her often, Jo," said Zenaida; "and you are correct in saying that she is very beautiful." 
               "I wonder," she continued, soliloquizingly, as she walked toward the house, "what has brought her here? Can it be that she, the impersonation of stately pride, has unbent from her frigid hauteur sufficiently to be willing to acknowledge as her sister her brother's wife, my own good, beautiful Helen, whom any family might be proud to claim as a member of its circle?" 
                
               She quickened her step as these thoughts rose in her mind. As she entered the room where Helen and her new-found sister sat, Florida rose to meet her with her former graceful dignity and kindness. 
               "You have not forgotten Florida Bernard, Miss Morris," she said, "the companion of so many rides and rambles in the days that are gone?" 
               "That would be impossible," replied Zenaida. "Time, since those days, has laid his hand so softly upon your brow, that I cannot perceive the slightest change in your appearance." 
               "I cannot say the same," said Florida; "for these years that have flown and are numbered with the past, have transformed you, whom I remember as a timid child, into a graceful young lady. Your eyes," she continued, as Zenaida looked up, "are unchanged; wistful as ever." 
               Long had been the struggle in the proud, high heart of Florida Bernard, ere she could prevail upon herself to pay this visit. She liked Helen, and knew that the happiness of Arthur was safe in her keeping; and many blessings of late had she secretly called down upon hear beloved brother and his chosen wife; but, she had opposed him at first, and she did not like to yield,-to confess that her prejudices had been unfounded, that the better feelings of her heart had slept during so long a time. Since the evening of the concert, each day she had said,-"I will go to my brother;" and each sun since then had set upon that promise unfulfilled. 
               Her heart had yearned toward her little nephew Harry; and often did she sit picturing his sweet face, his pretty baby wiles, and inarticulate speech. Upon this day this little image had haunted her so perseveringly,-had appeal so irresistibly to her love, that she determined to seek her brother,-to beg pardon for her past unkindness; to beseech him and Helen to forget it; to admit her into the charmed circle of their love. 
               Helen had been deeply wounded by the unkind treatment she had experienced from her husband's family; but she forgot all the bitterness of her former feelings when she saw the stately pride of Florida humbled before her; when she felt upon her brow her kiss, a holy peace-offering and token of reconciliation. Her heart swelled with all a mother's pride when she brought her darling Harry, and placed him in the arms of his unknown aunt. 
               Harry gazed inquiringly at her with his bright, black eyes, and smiling, showed one pearly tooth, and the pretty dimples in his soft, rosy cheek. Florida looked long and earnestly upon him; and, raising her eyes to those of Helen, said,- 
               "Sister, you have cause to be proud of this boy: he is the most beautiful creature I ever saw. There is a look of such bright intelligence in his eyes, so like your own. My brother's child! my Arthur in miniature," she said, softly; "may holy angels guard thee; may the richest blessings of Heaven be showered upon thee from the bounteous hand of the Giver of all good; may thy parents, thou little gem, polish thee so, that when the Saviour comes to gather up his jewels, thou mayest be found worthy a place in the resplendent crown which shall adorn his glorified head! Helen," she said, "I cannot stay with you till Arthur comes; but tell him that I have at last obtained the victory over my stubborn spirit. Tell him that the heart of his sister has been his, through all these long, weary months of separation, as it is now his-and yours," she continued, taking the hand of Helen within her own, and bestowing upon her a kiss of affection. 
               "Forgive me, my sister," said Helen, with broken voice and tearful eyes, "that I ever came between you and Arthur. I knew not of your opposition to our union until it was consummated; and bitterly did I regret that, unwittingly, I had severed a loving family." 
               "Say no more upon this subject forever, my dear Helen. I," she said, "would have brought my parents with me; but, when I left home, I did not know that I had summoned courage enough to carry me through this dreaded ordeal, the reality of which I have found much more agreeable than the anticipation. You have a generous, noble heart, my sister, to forgive so freely, so fully, all the slights, the reproaches cast upon you by my own erring self. God and your pure conscience will reward you." 
               With another lingering look at Harry-another murmured "God bless you!" she departed; leaving behind in the breast of Helen pleasure without alloy. 
               "Arthur will be so delighted!" she said, again and again, as she looked anxiously for his coming. 
               "Why, Helen, my dear wife!" exclaimed his cheery voice, as she met him at the gate, "what has happened? You look bright as a new sixpence, or as Hebe, the goddess of perpetual youth. Where's Harry," he said, not pausing for a reply to his first question, "and our little sister? Is she under the hawthorn trees dreaming of Elliott, or reading those everlasting books?" 
               Zenaida heard these last words; and, rising from the door-step where she sat with little Harry, went forward to meet Arthur. 
               "Here I am," she said, "amusing myself with this incomparable Harry,-neither dreaming of Elliott nor reading." 
               "How long since you last thought of him?" asked Arthur, playfully. 
               "I never gratify idle curiosity," she answered. "But, here, take Harry, and listen to what Helen has to tell you. I am delighted that she has some agreeable news to communicate, for it will give me a brief respite." 
               She walked away, the sadness, which had weighed upon her, lightened by the joy that had beamed upon her sister's pathway; and Arthur again appealed to Helen to know what had occurred. 
               She told him all. 
               "All's well that ends well," he said, when she concluded. "I knew they would come straight at last, and I am delighted, my dear wife, as much for your sake as my own." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               "BRUCE," said Paul Anderson, as they were walking leisurely, as usual, along the street, "have you seen Churchill lately? I never saw so perceptible a change in any one in so short a time." 
                
               "He has ceased to imbibe 'the rosy,'" replied Bruce; "and, you know, Horace says,- 
                      
                        Invidus, iracundus, iners, vinosus, amator, 
                        Nemo adeo ferus est-ut non mitescere possit, 
                        Si modo cultur patientem commodet aurem.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "Translate," said Paul, imperatively; "I don't believe you can do it." 
               "I'll give you a free translation," responded Bruce. "No drunkard is so far gone, but that he may be improved, if he will stop drinking." 
               "By Apollo and the muses!" ejaculated Paul, "that is a free translation with a vengeance. I would like some more specimens of the same sort." 
               "O! ainim dimidium me," replied Bruce; "most probably you would; but I do not display my erudition upon all occasions. It will be some time before you see another flash so brilliant as that." 
               "From your quotation," said Paul, "I may indulge the hope that there is some chance for amendment in you and myself. I come under the head of one classification, the 'iners;' you under two, the 'lazy' I and the 'lover.' But," he continued, "look yonder at that contemptible Ridgely, coming this way! I fear he is beyond the hope, the possibility of redemption. I would, if it were not too much trouble, walk around three squares to avoid meeting him. I wonder how long it will be before he squanders all of his wife's property? Fool that she is to let him touch it!" 
               "He does not always lose at cards," said Bruce. "Many are the unsophisticated pigeons that have been plucked by his veteran hand. I have heard that his wife was deeply in love, with him when they were married; but suppose her love has all evaporated, for never see her now unless attended by that Leslie Barclay, her devoted cavalier. Oh, most noble Agamemnon!" he continued, with a mock bow to Ridgely, as he passed, "I would advise you to keep your eye upon your Clytemnestra and her gisthus, or they may form a conspiracy against that worthless life of yours. I would, if I were in your lady's place, lay violent hands upon it, if I could engage the assistance of an able coadjutor like Barclay." 
               "Paul," said Bruce, after a silence of several minutes, "let's go down Broadway." 
               "I prefer to walk here," replied Paul, decisively, resisting Bruce's efforts to draw him to the other street. 
               "Saulus," said Bruce at last, "do you see that donkey yonder, backed up so stubbornly against the curbstone? You are just like it; and if it, like the ever-memorable 'critter' that carried Balaam, were to be endowed with the power of utterance at the present time, it would speak to this effect, 
                      
                        'Come one, come all-this rock shall fly 
                        From its firm base as soon as I!'" 
                     
                  
                
               "Bruce," said Paul, "I wish you would get married, then you would not torment me so unmercifully." 
               "I would," replied Brace; "but I am afraid I might be like a man I read about the other day." 
               "How was that?" queried Paul. 
               "He said," responded Bruce, "that when he was first married, his wife, he thought, was so sweet that he was always wishing to eat her; 'and now,' with a deep sigh, after some years had elapsed 'I am sorry I didn't.'" 
               "I shall take warning by his examples," said Paul, "and eat mine up during the honey-moon. 'Twill save much trouble, no doubt." 
               "Talking of a wife, my dear Pylades," remarked Bruce, "why do you not endeavor to conciliate your quondam ladye-love, the fascinating Beatrice? From all that I can ascertain she must combine, in a degree truly surprising, the attractions of Venus and Psyche-the beauty of the person, and the mind, or soul. Your heart must be as impregnable as the fortress of Ehrenbreitstein, if it can resist the allied forces of two most formidable powers." 
               "I am completely insensible," replied Paul. "Her arrows glance off from me harmless as the darts from the adamantine armor of Mars. I will introduce you to her, if you wish it." 
               "I accept your proposition," said Bruce; "but I am still the sworn champion of 'la belle Morris,' and, armed with the gis of this faithful love, I will fearlessly encounter this potent adversary. If that will not be sufficient guaranty of my invulnerableness, my security, I will borrow the 'talaria' and the tongue of the eloquent Mercury, the patron of all equivocators, who has often rendered most valuable assistance to me in many an emergency, as he ought to do; for I am one of his most ardent admirers and faithful followers." 
               "She is very fond of poetry, Bruce," said Paul, leading the conversation back to Beatrice. "Before you go to see her, you must rub the rust off, and burnish up all your weapons of this nature." 
               "Verbum sapienti," replied Bruce, "I shall earn the reputation, and win the title of the 'Mad Rhymer.' But I need no study of this part beforehand. I have rehearsed too often. When shall we go?" 
               "Now-that is, this evening, if it suits you," said Paul. 
                
               "My friend, Mr. Wilson," said Paul aside to the delighted Beatrice, after the ceremony of introduction had been performed, "is a devoted admirer of the ladies, and is a sort of monomaniac on the subject of 'love,' upon which he converses most eloquently." 
               Beatrice took the hint as he intended, and, after some casual commonplace remarks drew the discourse into this channel. 
               "Mr. Wilson," she said, softly, "I have heard that you are devotedly fond of ladies' society, and it is but reasonable to suppose that you have felt the sweet, bewildering influence of love-the favorite theme of poets-the most blissful, heavenly feeling to which the human heart can yield?" 
               "Your inference," replied Bruce, gravely, "is perfectly correct, and does credit to your discrimination. I have loved madly, passionately, devotedly; have experienced the truth of the assertion that 'Love is a seventh heaven in a glance, an eternity in a moment, a whirlwind in a sigh!'-A tempest in a tea-pot, an unmitigated humbug," parenthetically to himself. 
               "Ah!" sighed Beatrice, "how delightful, yet how painful!" 
               "Yes," responded Bruce, quickly, with a sigh, "the counterpart of her own,- 
                  
                      
                        "'To love, it is a painful thrill, 
                        But not to love more painful still; 
                        But oh! it is the worst of pain 
                        To love and not be loved again.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "You have anticipated me, Mr. Wilson," said Beatrice; "have given expression to my thought; but I hope I may not infer, from that long-drawn sigh, that you have felt the pangs of unrequited affection." 
               "Oh!" said Bruce, with a tragic air, that nearly destroyed the equilibrium of Paul, who, with assumed gravity, was an amused spectator of this scene,- 
                      
                        "'Who that feels what love is here, 
                        All its falsehood, all its pain, 
                        Would, for even Elysium's sphere, 
                        Risk the fatal dream again?' 
                     
                   But," he continued, "I, unfortunate that I am, am no sooner loosed from the spells of one enchantress, than I am bound by the irresistible fascinations of another, more potent than Circe." 
               "Surely," murmured Beatrice, softly, "all are not so cruel, so insensible to your love. Such devotion, such charming susceptibility, must eventually recommend itself favorably to the consideration of some equally sensitive heart." Here she cast upon Bruce a look which said plainly as words could have done, that "her heart was thus sensitive." 
               Bruce was not unobservant of this tender glance, and he immediately returned it, exclaiming,- 
                      
                        "'Tell me not of Houris' eyes; 
                        Far from me their dangerous glory, 
                        If those looks that light the skies, 
                        Wound like those that burn below.'" 
                     
                  
                
                
               "Miss Bainbridge," interrupted Paul, at this crisis, "will you be so kind as to favor us with some music?" 
               Bruce seconded the motion, saying,- 
                      
                        "'I pant for the music which is divine,- 
                        My heart in its thirst is a dying flower; 
                        Pour forth the sound like enchanted wine, 
                        Loosen the notes in a silver shower; 
                        Like an herbless plain for the gentle rain, 
                        I gasp, I faint, till they wake again.'" 
                     
                  
                
               Beatrice, after many objections, commenced the prelude, and, after a few bars, paused as if irresolute. Bruce 
                     immemediately
                     immediately
                   cried,- 
                      
                        "'Let me drink of the spirit of that sweet sound; 
                        More, oh, more! I am thirsting yet!'" 
                     
                  
                
               Beatrice yielded gracefully to this solicitation, and commenced playing. Paul took this occasion to scribble upon a piece of paper, which he slipped unobserved into Bruce's hand,-"In your disgust at this performance, don't forget your rle." 
               Bruce nodded intelligently; then leaned over, and turned the leaves of the music-book with the greatest assiduity, hanging, apparently entranced, upon the sound of Beatrice's voice. When she concluded her song, he roused, as if from a reverie of bliss, sighing forth the words,- 
                      
                        "'My soul is an enchanted boat, 
                        Which like a sleeping swan doth float 
                        Upon the silver waves of thy sweet singing;'" 
                     
                   And, as Beatrice rose to leave the piano, he waved her back, saying,- 
                      
                        "'Oh! once again, divine enchantress, roll 
                        The golden tide of music o'er my soul!'" 
                     
                  
                
                
               She sang again; and again did Bruce, calling to his aid the poet's words, instill the sweet poison of his flattery into her willing ear. 
               "While you sing," he sighed,- 
                      
                        "'I sail on, away, afar, 
                        Without a course, without a star, 
                        But by the instinct of sweet music driven; 
                        Till, through Elysian garden islets, 
                        By thee, most beautiful of pilots, 
                        Where never mortal pinnace glided, 
                        The boat of my desire is guided: 
                        Realms, where the air we breathe is love.'" 
                     
                  
                
               As soon as he concluded, Paul moved an adjournment, and they left Beatrice completely entranced by the poetical compliments of the eloquent and elegant Mr. Wilson. Elliston Hunter's wish was granted. She had met with one who foiled her with her own weapons, by whom she was entirely eclipsed. 
                
               "Paul, my dear fellow," said Bruce, when they were again on the street, "may his Satanic Majesty-hero of nursery-maids, terror of evil-doers, who is mythically represented with horns and cloven hoofs-catch me, if I don't believe that girl thought I was really charmed! Music! oh, ye gods and little fishes! it would have thrown St. Cecilia into strong convulsions. 
                      
                        'I had rather hear a brazen canstick turned, 
                        Or a dry wheel grate on its axle,' 
                     
                   than be compelled to listen to its like again." 
               "Bruce, Bruce!" said Paul, reprovingly; "how will you ever get absolution for all the falsehoods you utter?" 
                
               "Oh, Sathanos!" replied Bruce; "it becomes thee well to reprove sin." 
               "Poor girl!" said Paul; "she will never again listen, with complacency, to the common-place adulation of her admirers. You have insured her unhappiness, unless you determine to follow up the suit, and take her for better or worse." 
               "'Twould be for worse, I haven't a doubt," replied Bruce; "and I am not disposed to offer up myself a sacrifice upon the altar hymeneal." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               "ZENAIDA," said Arthur, "what do you think I have for you? Something which has excited my curiosity so, for several hours, that I could hardly resist the impulse to examine its contents." 
               "What is it?" she inquired, calmly. 
               "Nay," said he; "if you are so indifferent, I think I will keep it for my own edification." 
               "You do so delight to envelope your communications in mystery," she said. "But, whatever you have, give it to me, and let me see if it is worthy to excite your curiosity." 
               "I verily believe it is a love-letter," said Arthur, drawing forth a neatly enveloped note. "One of your devoted ones gave it to me for you." 
               Zenaida took it, and, hastily breaking the seal, read:- 
               "Mr. Churchill will be deeply indebted to Miss Morris if she will kindly permit him to accompany her to the Floral Exhibition to-morrow night." 
               "'Tis a love-letter is it not?" inquired the persevering Arthur. 
               "You raised my expectations so high," said Zenaida, "that I am quite disappointed. Here, you may read it, if you wish." 
               Arthur glanced over the note, and, as he gave it back to her, he said,-"Well, if it is not a love-letter, it is the opening prelude to a strain which will sound in your ear to-morrow night." 
               "Must I go?" she asked. 
               "Certes," replied Arthur. "Frank is a good fellow, and if you refused to go you would wound his feelings, which I do not wish you to do. By-the-way, Bruce Wilson was telling me that Frank has given up the use and abuse of all intoxicating liquors, which intelligence rejoiced me exceedingly. Have you extracted a pledge from him to this effect, Zenaida? If you have, you may feel proud of your work; for it will be the temporal salvation of Frank, who was, by far, too noble a man to be permitted to fall a victim to this destroyer." 
               "No, brother," replied Zenaida; "I have had no instrumentality in the work of his reclamation; but you have given me sincere pleasure. I felt an interest in Mr. Churchill the first time I ever saw him, which has been increased during the progress of our acquaintance. He is talented; and now his talent may shine forth in unclouded splendor, and, like the city that is set upon a hill, not be hidden." 
               "What would Allan say to this expression of interest in another, and that other one who may prove no despicable rival?" queried Arthur. 
               "Mr. Elliott," she replied, sadly, "has no right to object to the expression of my interest in Mr. Churchill, or any one else." 
               "I thought he had," said Arthur, provokingly glancing, with a twinkle of mischief in his eye, at the face of Zenaida, which glowed with a rosy flush at the mention of Allan's name. 
                
               As Helen and Arthur were to be of the party, she consented to go with Frank, though her heart recoiled from the gayety by which she would be surrounded; but she strove to conquer her sadness, though she did not affect a gayety she did not feel, and conversed pleasantly with Churchill, with whom she was soon circling the ball, in Company with many other promenaders. 
               The room was brilliantly lighted, the pillars wreathed with evergreens and garlanded with flowers, which were scattered around in gorgeous profusion. Plants of many kinds, of luxuriant growth and bloom; temples and altars; cool, mossy grots, were there, from the roofs of which hung their lamps-bright flame-colored blossoms. In the midst, a fountain threw up its jet of burnished, silvery waters, reflecting the light of the innumerable gas-burners. 
               Zenaida gazed upon this scene, and turning to Frank, exclaimed-"We might easily imagine that we were in pagan Rome; that this festival was held in honor of the Goddess Flora; that for her these mossy shrines were built, and to her these votive offerings were made!" 
                
               "Perhaps the inscription over this little temple," said Frank, "may inform us to whose worship it is dedicated. See these letters, ingeniously formed with little white berries. 'Tis a verse from Horace Smith,- 
                      
                        'Were I, O God! in churchless lands remaining, 
                        Far from all voice of teachers and divines, 
                        My soul would find, in flowers of thy ordaining, 
                        Priests, sermons, shrines.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "No thought of the pagan goddess," said Zenaida, "in the heart of the one who framed that inscription with such loving care. The sentiment, embodied in those lines, is beautifully adapted to the work: a temple of living, fragrant flowers; an offering of flowers upon the miniature shrine; a band of floral priests, ministering around the altar, dedicated to the God who created them." 
               "It is the embodiment of a beautiful thought, an exquisite feeling; and this conception could only have emanated from a poet-soul; this work could only have been executed by artistic fingers, which have sought thus to portray, with flowers, the images of loveliness which haunt the soul, as the painter delineates upon his canvas, the poet in his verse, or the musician in his soul-thrilling harmonies. This light from the inner-life is but a faint shadow of the glory unrevealed," said Frank. 
               They passed on. 
               "Miss Morris," said Frank, after a pause, "I am on the eve of my departure from this city; and this evening may be the last one I shall ever spend with you." 
               "Where are you going, and what has caused this sudden determination, this unlooked-for announcement?" questioned Zenaida, with much surprise in her tone. 
               "I have deliberated long and earnestly upon the subject," he replied; "and it is my conviction that it will be for my good to leave this place, where I have been worse than useless. I have no ties which ought to bind me here. In a new place I may forget my past wasted years, or remember them only as a warning. Fool that I have been!" he continued, bitterly. "I have been here a gleaner in this old field, in which others are established by the right of priority, while in other localities fields are rich with golden harvests, inviting the reaper. Fame, ambition, love, call upon me in trumpet-tones not to be disregarded. The chains of despondency and sloth, which have bound me, are broken; the book of my life, with its past records, is sealed; and, upon the unsullied page of the new volume before me, I must write deeds of renown, words of living light and truth, which shall penetrate and dissolve the dark clouds of ignorance that envelope men's minds. I must win a name and high position among my fellow-men, or die in the attempt. But, pardon me, Miss Morris, I have been thoughtlessly intruding all this egotism upon you, forgetting, in the absorbing interest which the theme possesses for myself, that it cannot be of the slightest moment to you." 
               "You do me great injustice," she replied, reproachfully. "You know that my sympathies are always ready when my friends make any demand upon them." 
               "You are not then wholly indifferent to my future fate?" said Frank, eagerly, and with a brightened countenance. "You will not refuse me a place among your friends? I will be happy in my voluntary banishment, if I may be encouraged to believe that a kindly thought of me will sometimes cross you when I am far away." 
               "I will bid you 'God speed,'" she answered. "I doubt not that the day will come, and that ere long, when I will be proud to say, 'the distinguished Mr. Churchill once honored me with his friendship.' Nay, do not look sad," she said, looking up, "or I shall be compelled to try to persuade you to remain, and then, if I should succeed, what would become of all prospective honors, which the future holds in reservation for you? All would vanish like the delicate tracery of the frost-work in the morning sunshine; or rather, would be obscured as the sunlight by the sombre cloud." 
               "I could not resist your pleadings," he replied; "so spare your eloquence. Your kindly sympathy has cheered me inexpressibly. I would call down the blessing of Heaven upon you; but they will shower voluntarily upon one so good and gentle, without my imprecation." 
                
               "Who is that with Churchill?" inquired a young man, who stood by Hamilton Bainbridge, observing and commenting critically upon each new face that engaged his attention. "She is a new star in our city galaxy; but although she is among our belles, she does not appear to be of the same nature. What an etherealized expression! she looks as if she had just descended from a purer region,-as if her brow were still fanned by angel's wings, and her heart were still attuned to their delicious harmonies! Who is she, Bainbridge?" 
                
               "What a deuthed long speech!" drawled the lisping voice of the elegant Hamilton. "I would have been bored to death, if I had not been looking at that pretty girl yonder, instead of listening to you. That little creathure, over whom you grow tho eloquent, is a Mith Morrith, a 'nobody,' from the country, where we spent the lasth summer." 
               Having exerted himself sufficiently to give utterance to this piece of information, Hamilton relapsed into silence, throwing himself into the most graceful attitude by the pillar upon which he leaned. 
               "What do you mean by a 'nobody?'" persisted the young man. "If you know anything of this beautiful young lady, I would like to hear it. I am sure that even your malice could not invent anything to her disadvantage." 
               "Don't bother me about her," said Hamilton. "I have neither time nor inclinathion to talk about her." 
               "You boast of your residence in France," said the youth, mentally apostrophizing the unconscious Hamilton; "but I wish to Heaven you had studied the principles of common politeness, in which the inhabitants of that country are said to excel. You," he said, with an indignant glance, which was thrown away upon the exquisite, "you talk of being 'bored;' but, may I be hung as high as Haman, if you are not the most insufferable simpleton, the most unmitigated dullard, I ever saw in the whole course of my terrestrial pilgrimage! You are not worth the rope it would take to hang you, or the powder and shot which would be requisite to blow out-I was going to say your brains; but I beg pardon for insinuating that an article so common was in your possession." 
               Happily in ignorance of the opprobrious epithets mentally tally applied to him, Bainbridge stood unruffled amid the storm which raged in his companion's breast, adjusting his eye-glass, curling his mustache, and tenderly placing back the flowing ringlet which had fallen over his face; while so engaged, wondering if that 'pretty girl' was noticing the lustre of his magnificent diamonds. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               HELEN was sitting in the hall, which was open to admit the breeze, laden with many sweet-odors stolen from the adjacent gardens and meadows, when she was startled by a footstep. Looking up, she saw Allan Elliott standing in the door. 
               "This door stands so invitingly open," he said, with a graceful bow and smile, "that I cannot think an intruder, like myself, unwelcome. But you are alone. Where is Miss Morris?" 
               "Her pet, little Amy Bainbridge, has been with us to-day," replied Helen; "and Zenaida, though not so cheerful as usual, yielded to the solicitations of the sweet child, and with her has been roaming through the fields and woods, hunting straggling wild-flowers, and chasing butterflies. Amy has, doubtless, succeeded in dissipating her thoughtfulness; for her sunny cheerfulness and youthful glee are irresistibly contagious." 
               "Where are they now?" said Allan, impatiently. 
                
               "In the rose-bower, in the corner of the yard, I believe," replied Helen, rising. "I will send for them." 
               "No, do not!" said Allan; "I will go in search of them myself. You know," he continued, archly, "I am no stranger to that beautiful retreat." 
               Helen laughed, as he passed through the back door, bounded lightly down the steps, and stole softly across the yard. 
               Zenaida sat upon the little rustic bench, and above her the vines were so thickly interwined, that the sunlight, at noon, could only penetrate in stray beams. 
               Amy was asleep, with her bright head pillowed in the lap of her friend; her hat, half-filled with strawberries, leaves, and flowers, lying on the grass before them. Her cheeks were so richly colored, that the blushing roses on the arbor peeped in at her suspiciously, as if they thought the bright tint stolen from themselves. Her lips were parted, disclosing her white teeth; and over all her sweet face there breathed repose, as if the "Goddess of Peace had taken the poppy-garland of sleep" and placed it upon her fair young head. 
               Zenaida leaned over her, rapt in contemplation of her innocent, unconscious grace and loveliness, wondering if the sweet calm of this life before her were to be disturbed by the storms of angry passions, or that smooth brow furrowed by the plowshare of care and sorrow. Her fingers twined lovingly the glossy, golden ringlets of the little sleeper, and the mesmeric influence of her gentle touch deepened her repose. 
               "May the spirit of Love keep watch and ward over thee, little Amy!" she murmured;, "and may the one love which thy heart, like mine, shall know, descend upon thee softly as the summer dew, awakening new beauties in thy pure soul,-not fall with the scathing power of the lightning, withering thy young hopes! My heart was once free as thine; but now,"-she paused, with a sigh, and, raising her drooping head, saw before her the object which then engrossed her thoughts. She blushed deeply, and paled again as quickly, as Allan entered and took the seat before her. 
               "Why," he asked, "did you look up just then to discover me? I was lost in admiration of this, the loveliest tableau I ever looked upon. If I had had materials, I would have sketched you and this little cherub. But," he added, "I could not have done justice to her while you were hanging over her." 
               "In looking at me," replied Zenaida, "while this image of almost perfect beauty was before you, you displayed a deficiency of taste of which I should never have dreamed of accusing you, had you not betrayed yourself by this rash avowal." 
               The sound of their voices, disturbing the before unbroken quiet, awoke Amy. 
               "Amy," said Zenaida, stooping to imprint a kiss upon her tempting brow, "you have had a sweet sleep." 
               "Did you hold me all the time?" she asked, as she half unclosed her bright eyes and shut them up again. "Why didn't you lay me down on the soft grass? The red rose-leaves would have fallen down and covered me up, and the humming-birds and bees would have sung me to sleep. Oh!" she said, as she sat up, her eyes falling upon Elliott; "Cousin 'Naida, who is that? Did he come while I was asleep?" 
               "Yes," replied Allan; "did you not know, pretty one, that I had taken all your strawberries?" 
               "No you haven't," said Amy, triumphantly picking up her hat; "for here they all are. Cousin 'Naida, is it right for a big man like that to tell a story?" 
               Allan laughed gayly. 
               "I am going to give some of my berries to baby," cried Amy, as she darted beneath the arching vines, and across the yard. 
               She was gone, and Allan, throwing off the restraint which he had felt in her presence, began,- 
               "Zenaida, I have sought you this evening that I may hear my sentence from your lips. I have told you that I love you; but it needed not words to assure you of this, which every action has declared, since I have known you. Will you doom me to roam alone through the desert, which this life will be without you, or will you make each joy more deep, by sharing it with me? I have breathed to you vows which my lips have never spoken to another, and the happiness or misery of my life hang upon your answer." 
               She sat still, silent; but her whole frame quivered with a deep emotion, which she vainly endeavored to conceal from the loving eyes of Allan. 
               "Zenaida," he cried impetuously, falling upon his knees before her, "you are not indifferent to my love. Were your lips to frame a denial, your paleness, your uncontrollable agitation would contradict your words." 
               "Rise, Mr. Elliott," she said, gazing upon him with tearful ful eyes, and sad, said heart; "kneel not to me, a creature like yourself, but reserve that adoration for the Almighty, to whom it is due. I would not wound your heart unnecessarily," she continued, tremulously as he rose silently and took the seat beside her; "God knows I would not. I am not insensible to the rich offering, your noble heart, with all its untold wealth of love, which you have laid before me for my acceptance." 
               "You are, you will be mine, then!" said Allan, joyously, raising his bowed head and clasping her hand, which he covered with kisses. 
               "No," she replied, the tears running over in her blue eyes. "No. You, Allan, have raised the barrier which divides us, and to me it is insurmountable. You have refused to acknowledge the existence, to swear allegiance to the great and good God, to whom I belong, body, soul, and spirit; my prayers, my tears, my arguments have all been unavailing to soften the obduracy of your heart! I might marry you, fondly hoping that I might eventually convince you of your errors; but I have no right to believe that, as your wife, I could influence you more than I can now. God has issued a mandate which I must obey, even though in the struggle my poor heart should break. It is-'Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers.'" 
               "And do you," broke forth Allan, indignantly, "wish me to believe that you, loving me as you confess you do, will sacrifice, for this consideration, the happiness of both our lives-that you, free in all things else, will servilely obey this mandate, the authority of which I consider questionable at best-that you, a woman, the necessity of whose nature it is to love, will count as worthless, as nothing, the treasure of love with which I would endow you? Oh, Zenaida! Zenaida! for sweet mercy's sake, do not thus wantonly blast the happiness of us both!" 
               "Allan," she replied, weeping, "reproach me not, and entreat me not so passionately. My own heart, fortified as I thought it to stand this trying ordeal, rebels and pleads for you, for itself; but I must, not listen, for it cannot, must not be as you wish." 
               "Then you love me not," said Allan, bitterly; "and your tears, your sighs, are but counterfeit presentments by which you hope to lure me on, and wound me yet more deeply. You, whom I believed to be more pure than the unfallen snow-flake-more true than truth's own self, the embodiment of my ideal of loveliness, I now see in another light; a syren sweetly calling me to destruction-a Scylla, upon whose hidden, treacherous rocks the bark, freighted with all my hopes of happiness, has been wrecked-a false heart, triumphing in the pain it has cruelly inflicted upon another, which reposed unbounded confidence in its truth and worth!" 
               "Oh, Allan!" sobbed Zenaida, "that I should have lived to hear these words from your lips, which have always been musical with the soft murmurs of love! But," she said, erecting her slight form, which had bowed like a pensile flower before the storm of grief, "your own heart shall yet justify me-your own soul cease to condemn me for the sentence of separation I pass upon you and myself." 
               "Zenaida," replied Allan, in a tone so mournful that it haunted her reproachingly for many days, "you have broken my heart; you have quenched the light of happiness that shone upon my life until it seemed too glorious to be real; and over the sky, bright with the deceptive, mocking radiance of hope, your hand has drawn the black curtain of despair, on which is inscribed the curse, our separation. You will yet repent, when it shall be too late; you will sigh for the love which you now reject, which would have sheltered you from all the ills of life, and made your crown one of thornless roses." 
               "Go," she said, faintly; "your words are torture beyond that which I am able to bear. Oh, Allan! Allan! do not hate me; for, as God is my witness, I have but obeyed the dictates of my conscience!" 
               She closed her eyes, and a pallor so deadly overspread her face, that Allan thought she was dying; and, in his alarm for her, forgot his own angry grief, reproaching himself for having caused her suffering. But hers was only a momentary faintness, which soon passed; and as he saw the light returning to her eyes, and heard the deep sigh heaved from her sick heart, he took the little pair of scissors which hung suspended from her girdle, and severing one of her waving tresses, hid it in his bosom and disappeared. 
               "He is gone!" sobbed poor Zenaida, as she caught the faint echo of his retreating steps; "he is gone forever! No more will his voice of love whisper in my ear, or his beautiful eyes look into the depths and read the secrets of my heart. O God!" she cried, sinking upon the ground, bowing her head upon the bench where they so lately sat together, "O thou most merciful Father! grant me strength to bear with meekness this, the great trial of my life!" 
                
               "Mr. Elliott," called out the sweet voice of Helen, which grated harshly and discordantly upon the wrung and suffering heart of Allan, "will you not stay and take tea with us? Arthur will be delighted to see you." 
               "Excuse me, Mrs. Bernard," he replied hastily, averting his face, that she might not see therein the conflict of his soul, "I must return immediately. Good evening." 
               "A strange and sudden change has come over him, who an hour ago spoke so blithely, and bounded so gayly down these steps!" said Helen, musingly, as she gazed after him. "What can have caused it? Surely he and Zenaida have had no misunderstanding; and if she loves him not better than life, there is no truth in woman's eyes." 
               She walked toward the arbor as she spoke, but Zenaida was not surprised in the depth of her abandonment to grief; for hearing an approaching step, she wiped the tears from her eyes, and though she trembled visibly, was apparently engaged, when, Helen entered, in training the vines over the lattice. 
               "Why, sis," exclaimed Helen, "what in the world have you done to Mr. Elliott? He glided by me like a ghost, just now, hardly deigning to respond to my parting salutation." 
               "Do you hold me responsible for Mr. Elliott's varying moods?" inquired Zenaida, with a vain effort to appear composed and indifferent. 
               "You evade my question," said Helen; "but I will not try to force your confidence." 
               She turned away, more than ever at a loss to account for what she had seen-the dejection, the despondent gloom of Elliott, the agitation of her sister. 
               "The heart may break, yet brokenly live on," sighed Zenaida, as she sank again upon the bench of the arbor; "and mine, tortured as it is, and as it must be, must hide its anguish from all eyes. This secret, which is Elliott's as well as mine, must remain inviolate." 
               Thus she nerved her sick and fainting spirit to meet the kindly glances of affectionate curiosity from Helen, the light jests of the gay-hearted Arthur. She knew not the proud, uncomplaining endurance, the deep resignation and unfaltering courage of her heart; but these hitherto untried resources were developed for her aid in this trying emergency. 
               When called to supper, though her head throbbed painfully, keeping time with the rapid pulsations of her heart, she obeyed the summons, paler than usual, but so still that, in a spirit less lofty, more earthly than her own, this absence of all visible emotion might have been mistaken for the calmness of despair. She had heard the "still, small voice" whispering to her heart in its agony, "The trials and sufferings of this life, which are but for a moment, work for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory;" and beneath the influence of this holy voice, her soul grew calm as the waves of Galilee, which, tossing in wildest commotion, had sunk into silence, awed by the words of power--"Peace, be still!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               "ALL things work together for good to them that love God." This truth was a firm anchor to the soul of Zenaida, which loosed not its hold; but Allan was driven over the wild sea of stormy passions without pilot, chart, or compass, at the mercy of the winds and waves. Poor fellow! No light from the open portals of eternity fell upon the dark clouds which overshadowed him;-Hope wove no bright rainbow above the storm. He had staked his happiness upon one cast of the die, and had lost. For him the future was a dreary waste, from the contemplation of which his soul shrank shudderingly, appalled at the flitting spectres of dead hopes and past happiness which peopled it, and mocked him with their delusions. His former pastimes had lost their charm. He had fondly believed that he had found the philosopher's stone in his love, which had thrown an illusive, golden glory over all things; that he had mingled the elements which combine to form the elixir of life; but when he raised the chalice to quaff its life-giving contents, they had turned to poison on his lips. 
               When he essayed to paint, hoping to distract his thoughts, which were maddening in their intensity, the face of Zenaida still rose before him, assuming the aspect of the lovely Medusa, in gazing upon which his life was turned to a monumental stone, entombing a living spirit. If he had recourse to his piano, the music he had formerly loved came not to his memory; but the chords wailed beneath his touch as if the spirit of music were sighing forth the dirge above his own dead heart. Dead! Ah! would that it had been dead, utterly devoid of feeling; but, though mortally wounded, it possessed vitality sufficient to feel continually the keenest pangs of death. 
               Many and bitter were the accusations brought against Zenaida, in this angry, suffering heart. He called her false, heartless; but ever as these words rose to his lips, her face, pale as he had last seen it; her eyes, heavy with the weight of unshed tears; her words, "Do not hate me, Allan!" spoken in a low, heart-rending tone, rose before him, witnesses bearing irrefutable testimony to her truth, her depth of feeling. Angrily did he wave away this image, which appealed to his love, conjuring up in its stead the beautiful Gorgon, to whom he had likened her. 
               The associations of his home were now unendurable. If he entered the conservatory he could see Zenaida, with the moonlight falling round her, a veil of silvery radiance; could hear her soft, sweet voice, which the echo of the place delighted to repeat ever in his ear; while with each picture that adorned the walls was connected some expression of her admiration, which his memory, faithfully retentive of her every word, had treasured up. 
               He resolved to go away; to roam a weary wanderer through the unsympathizing world, as many had done before him, vainly seeking relief in change. He would not go forth in search of beauty, for the Real, ruthless iconoclast, had shivered into a thousand atoms the Ideal which he had enshrined in his heart of hearts; and that, which he had hoped would stand the test of time, the beautiful altar upon which he had sworn to keep the sacred fires forever burning, he saw a hopeless ruin at his feet. 
               The burning sun of no equatorial clime could be fiercer than the flame which consumed him; nor did he hope to find one cold enough to chill this fever in his brain. His haggard look, his sad unrest, could not escape his mother's watchful eyes; and when he told her he was going far away, she sacrificed her own feelings for what she deemed his good. No murmur escaped her lips as she thought of the loneliness which would fall upon her when he was gone; when she would pass through the familiar rooms, looking in vain for his loved form, listening in vain for the strains of melody which he was wont to awaken. 
               He left that home, than which he had once thought the earth contained no fairer dwelling-place. Absorbed in his own sorrows, he left that mother from whom, he had once sworn, no other love should ever have power to separate him, and, like Orestes, pursued by Furies, wandered o'er the earth. 
               The balmy breezes, deep-blue sky, and Elysian beauty of Italy; the vine-clad hills of sunny France; the picturesque Rhine, "like Bacchus, crowned and drunken, reeling to the sea;" the quiet, homelike loveliness of England, now charmed him not. In the landscape his eye saw not the tree around which the vine clung tenderly, like the tendrils of love around the heart; but the one, scathed by the fiery lightning, riven by the dread thunder-bolt, a scarred and blackened monument of avenging wrath, standing out in bold relief against a background of surrounding luxuriance. 
                
               In the almost inaccessible fastnesses of the mountains, crags barren and bleak, the supporting pillars of the temple of Desolation, his soul found gloomy companionship. In the tract over which the tornado had swept, with fury relentless as that of Tisiphone, prostrating forests which had withstood the violence of ages, leaving behind ruin and dismay, he saw the similitude of his own life. 
               He gazed into the crater of the volcano, with its waves of liquid flame, rolling and seething, boiling and bubbling like the Lake of Avernus, destroying with their deadly heat every green and living thing, and in it he saw typified the internal agitation of his own soul. 
               But the strings of the heart, like the chords of some delicately attuned instrument, cannot always endure this unnatural tension. They must either relax or break. The sufferings of the mind were communicated to the sympathizing body, and Allan Elliott-the idolized son, over whom his mother's eye had watched with unwearying devotion-was ill in a foreign land. No hand was there, with the assiduity of love, to bathe his brow, burning with fever; no eye which would fill with tears in sympathy for his suffering; no ear which would listen, with painful interest, to the incoherent ravings of his speech. 
               Long was his soul balanced between life and death; long did the dark shadows hang around him, threatening to extinguish the spark upon the altar of his life, which burned flickeringly and low. Kindness he experienced from strangers, who were touched with pity to see one so young, so beautiful in the glory of his early manhood, hovering so near the entrance to the Dark Valley. His gold procured him attention, but not such as his mother would have given, or that gentle being whose name was oftenest on his lips, whose shadowy presence never left him. 
               At length the fever subsided, the crisis was past, and the physician decided that he would recover. 
               In the long, weary hours of convalescence, gentle, kindly thoughts of home came, bright-winged angel ministrants, to soothe his tired spirit, and, like a weary child, he was lulled to repose by the lullabies of love which they whispered to his heart. He hailed the sun with joy, for in his course he had smiled upon his home; had kissed the tear-drops from his mother's cheek; had glanced brightly upon the golden-gleaming head of the one beloved; and the west wind, as it came softly in at his window, breathing messages of love from the far-off home, was also gladly welcomed. 
               Every memento which he possessed became now more precious in his eyes than the diamonds of Golconda, the pearls of Ceylon. The lock of hair, which he had stolen in that last interview, was now, as it lay protectingly against his heart, the shield which had turned the death-dart. Among these tokens of love was a beautiful little Bible, the gift of Zenaida, in which she had written, "Read, obey, and live." He had preserved it because it was her gift; and even in the wildest paroxysms of despair he could not prevail upon himself to cast it away. 
               Now, when his heart was softened in the fires of illness, most bitterly did he reproach himself for his unkind thoughts of her; and one day, impelled by an irresistible longing, he opened this sacred volume which she had given him, accompanied by many prayers. The words, which had before fallen powerless, or glanced off like arrows from an impenetrable coat of mail, now pierced his heart-divested its buckler of unbelief. The sweet truths and promises fell with grateful, refreshing power and musical softness upon his heart, like the shower upon the parched earth; and bright flowers of hope and love sprang into life, making glad the garden of his soul. 
               He read, not critically, not skeptically, not as one poet reads the glowing verse of another, as he had before done; but the words were addressed to him; for him the bright angels ascended to heaven, bearing his prayers, and again descended, bringing glad tidings from on high. He followed the footsteps of the Christ in His earthly pilgrimage; he sat with Mary at His feet, and hung upon His words as upon a sentence of life or death; the stood by the Mother at the cross, and kneeled, weeping at the empty sepulchre; he was with the disciples on the Mount, and with them watched His form ascending, until it was lost from sight in the rosy clouds and blue ether of the heaven. 
               Not in one day was this change wrought. The pleading tones of Zenaida's voice sounded in his ear as he read; her exalted example of self-sacrifice, by which he now saw that she had reduced her religious theories to practice, and given indisputable evidence of her entire submission to the Divine will, was presented before him in the clear light of truth; and he, at last, acknowledged that she had acted nobly, and was worthy of a martyr's crown. 
               As his prejudices were gradually removed before this new light, like the wintry snow which disappears before the beams of the warm sun of spring, God, the being whose very existence he had impiously denied, was revealed to him in the awful majesty of His power, the omnipotence of His will; and fear took possession of his soul. His justice demanded the punishment of the transgressor; and he considered not, in his terror, the atoning sacrifice of mercy. In this emergency he clung to his Bible, as the drowning mariner to the floating spar which keeps off imminent death-and finally the storm subsided; the billows ceased to roll; the black clouds parted, and upon his soul shone the effulgent glory of the Sun of Love, the mildly beaming lustre of the Star of Bethlehem. Dear to his heart did that Saviour become, who for him had agonized in the Garden of Gethsemane, had borne his sins upon the fatal tree. His soul, like the weary dove, had now found its refuge, and folded its wings in peace; the polluted waters of sin gliding off and leaving no stain, as the turbid drops from the snowy-plumed messenger of Noah. 
               With these new hopes, thoughts, and feelings, came the yearning for his native land; the desire to look again upon her, whose desecrated image was once more raised to its former pedestal in his heart. No longer would he lead the life of his former inglorious ease; for his talent must not be returned without interest to the Giver. The humblest man who was useful, who employed his gifts for the exaltation of humanity, the benefit of his fellow-men, was now, in his estimation, worthy of higher honor than he, who, endowed with genius, wealth, and blessings innumerable, shut himself up in his Castle of Indolence; the world being neither wiser nor better that he had lived in it. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               BUT to return to the land to which the eyes of Allan are directed with wistful, longing gaze. 
               Slowly for Zenaida flew the leaden-winged hours, after that evening upon which she had last seen Allan. She spoke not of her sorrow; but, the watchful eye of Helen saw the rose-tint fade from her cheek, the love-light from her eye, the elasticity from her step; and as Allan came no more, her suspicions became certainties that some unfortunate word, some act of the one, misinterpreted by the other, had separated two loving hearts which ought to have been one. 
               She sat one evening, on the door-steps holding a book in her hand that she might screen herself from the scrutinizing glance of Arthur, which was now and then cast upon her; but her heart was not with her, and her eyes were fixed upon the road by which Allan had been wont to come. As they found not what they sought, her head drooped low until it sunk upon her hand, and the unbidden tears swam in her eyes. 
               Arthur deliberately seated himself on the next lower step, and, looking up, exclaimed,- 
               "What, sis! tears in the bright eyes? What is the hidden spring from whence they flow? You are the most contradictory creature in the world! your words and actions are at daggers' points. When Elliott asked you if you love him, your lips answered no, while every look, every action bore witness that you did. I think it was positively shameful for you to treat a fine fellow like Allan so cruelly. Not every girl would have thrown carelessly aside a heart like his-or a fortune either. Why, sis!" he continued, "he would have crowned your brow with diamonds, or wreathed your sunny locks with pearls; he would have installed you queen over his realms of untold thought, as well as his 'Fairy Bower,' where Titania's self might love to reign. He would have made you his Muse, and your name might have been handed down to remote ages, graven on the world's heart in letters of living light, like Tasso's Leonora, Dante's Beatrice, or the Laura of Petrarch. What were you thinking of when you refused a fate so enviable?" 
               Zenaida made no reply; but rising hastily, entered the house, that he might not witness the torture his words inflicted. 
               "The high-tragedy airs of these young folks," mused Arthur, "are entirely above the limited range of my comprehension. It pleases mademoiselle, my little sister, to envelope the courtship of Elliott in a mystery as profound as that which involved the Eleusinia of the Ancients. Helen," he said, appealing to his wife, "do you know why Zenaida rejected Elliott? I am perfectly convinced that she has done so; and I can neither account for it myself, nor get a satisfactory explanation from her." 
               "No," replied Helen, sadly. "I do not know; I wish I did; for if there is any misunderstanding between them, it might be removed by the friendly mediation of one of us. I have not urged Zenaida to make me her confidante, as she seems disinclined to do so of her own will. Do not tease her again, my dear Arthur; for though she makes an effort to appear cheerful, she is very, very sad. Sometimes, when I go into her room suddenly, I find her with her sewing lying idly in her lap, her eyes fixed as if some spirit-form were before her, or with that absorbed, introverted look they used to wear when she was a child; but when she sees me, she will resume her employment with a smile cold as the moonlight upon snow, or will converse in a tone the cheerfulness of which is too evidently assumed." 
                
               A few days after this, Zenaida announced her intention of returning immediately to Willowbrook; and vain were all the arguments with which Helen and Arthur sought to oppose her determination. 
               "I have been here too long already," she said; "the voice of duty calls upon me to return again to the old home of my childhood. I have neglected black mammy and Uncle Harry too long, and my conscience reproaches me." 
               "And is the voice of duty ever to drown the voice of love in your heart?" asked Helen. "You can be more happy here with us. Why should you go away? Has not even the infant beauty of Harry power to chain you to this place? I had hoped that we could find some power potent enough to detain you with us; but, alas I it is not so." 
               "Harry is very dear to me," she replied; "and I have been most happy while with you." 
               "Make my adieux to all my kind friends," she said, at parting. "You, my sister and brother, have been most kind to me, and God and your own consciences will reward you. I shall never forget the many pleasant days I have spent at Hawthornden." 
               As she said this, she cast a last look upon the hawthorn-trees, the rose-arbor, and many other places that were associated with Allan. 
               "This will not be your last visit?" said Helen, inquiringly; vainly striving to smile through her tears. 
               "I hope not," replied Zenaida. "I shall not be able to live long without Harry-he is so bright, so beautiful, so good." 
                
               She was gone; and ere long the old familiar scenes around Willowbrook greeted her once more. The Cottage, in all the glory of its summer beauty, smiled a joyous welcome; and when she entered the gate, mammy, aroused by the bark of glad recognition from Beppo, came forth to see who the intruder might be. 
               Zenaida, feeling herself clasped in her kindly arms, was grateful for even the love of this faithful heart, which threw a ray of light upon her life, and strewed the homely flowers of humble affection along her pathway. 
               The good old black woman gazed with delight upon this child, "her darling, who had once more come back to her black mammy." 
               "But bless you, honey!" she cried, looking closely in her face; "you is bin sick along o' that ole town, an' them upstart city folks. What they bin doin' to you, chile?" 
               "I have not been sick, dear mammy," she replied; "and I have enjoyed my visit very much; but I am so glad to get back here again, to see your dear old face beaming with pleasure, your eyes swimming in tears of joy, and know that it is all for me." 
               "Bless God, chile!" said mammy, "ef I aint glad to see you, I should like to know who I would be glad to see on the top of this yarth?" 
               "Well, mammy," said Zenaida, "when I have rested awhile, you must come in, and I will tell you about our Helen and the baby, the prettiest baby that ever was seen." 
               "Bless God!" again said mammy, fervently; "but I would like to see him; but come, honey, and see how nice I is bin keepin' house since you bin gone. Everything is clean as a new pin; an' ole Harry, he's done kep' down all the weeds in the garden, and thar you will find all the flowers jist like you had 'em when you was here." 
               Zenaida thanked her for taking so much trouble to please her; and praised everything, much to the gratification of mammy. 
               "Tell Uncle Harry and Milton to bring in my trunks, if you please, mammy," she said, "and I will see if I cannot find something pretty in them for you all." 
               Mammy's old eyes danced with delight, as visions of bright-colored gowns and gay turbans rose before her, and she hastened to execute this commission. 
               "Here, ole man!" she exclaimed, as she made an abrupt entry into the kitchen, giving Harry a rousing shake, which effectually dispelled the dreams of his afternoon nap; "Miss 'Naida's come, and she say you an' Milton must fetch her trunks in." 
               Harry rose slowly from his seat, and, elevating his bent form, crossing his hands upon his breast, and swinging himself self back and forth, pendulum-fashion, uttered, in a deep sepulchral voice,- 
               "The Lord ha' mercy! Miss 'Naida come! Bless the Lord!" 
               "Now, ole man," said mammy, energetically, "don't stan' there a swingin' yerself all day, but come along." 
               Uncle Harry submissively followed his better-half, and soon placed the trunks before Zenaida. 
               "Why, Uncle Harry," she said, extending her hand, "how do you do?" 
               "Sort o' poorly, bless God, mistis!" responded the old man, meekly, as he retreated several steps, and swung himself against the wall; "but I'll feel better now, mistis, since I'se lived to see you come home. I'se lived wid de Morrises all my life, an' when they was all gone, I didn't know what was gwine to 'come of ole Harry." 
               He swung himself again as he said this, and again mammy reprimanded him. 
               "Ole man," she said, "can't you stan' still?" 
               "Don't scold him," said Zenaida. "Uncle Harry," she continued, "what kind of a present would you rather have?" 
               "Bless God, mistis!" replied Harry; "I'd rather have a long knife, motter o' fact!" 
               "Ole man," again interrupted mammy, "ef I was in your place, I wouldn't say 'motter o' fact' no more. Don't you see Miss 'Naida's larfin at you now?" 
               "No, I am not, Uncle Harry," said Zenaida; "and here is what you wished for, a long knife, and many other things besides." 
                
               The old man bent reverently to receive them, and then walked forth, muttering as he went, "Bless God! She's a good child; a real Morris, motter o' fact!" much to the indignation of mammy, who followed him. 
                
               Zenaida, having dismissed her tried and faithful servitors, hastened along the path which led to her father's grave-a path her feet had kept smooth while she was at home, and from which, during her absence, mammy had cut every weed, with the zeal of a religious devotee. The flowers blooming upon this consecrated spot needed the gentle hand of Zenaida to train them, but still showed that they had not been neglected; and, in the fullness of her grateful heart, Zenaida called down blessings upon the heads of her devoted servants. 
               "In this quiet nook," thought she, "the remaining years of my life will be passed; a lot different indeed from the one which, a few short days ago, was offered for my acceptance. How striking and painful the contrast between the life of the loved and loving wife of Allan Elliott, which would have been full of happiness, and the monotonous existence of the old maid of Willowbrook, into which I will soon subside! But I must not indulge in vain repinings. I can still be useful; and here, on this altar, this holy shrine, my own dear father's grave, will I offer up prayers for him for whom I would willingly die, that he might be saved. I have faith in the goodness of his heart, and I will hope that he may yet be all that even my heart could wish. I have seen him turn aside his foot that he might not crush the worm which crawled beneath him; and one thus gentle cannot trample ruthlessly upon his own immortal soul. We may never be united; may never meet again in this world; but I would willingly forego this transient pleasure, great though it be, could I but hope to see him, in the great day of eternity, upon the right hand of God, his brow bound with the wreath of the victor, who has triumphed over the leagued enemies of his soul, and his loved voice, tuned to the praise of God and the Lamb, mingling with the anthems of the redeemed." 
                
               Many sad, waking, thoughts were hers; many tearful dreams; but she strove to forget them, to interest herself in the employments which had formerly given her delight. She visited her old haunts by wood and stream; she stood upon the hill to watch the rising of the sun, the gradual dispersion of the mists which shrouded the valleys, or at evening caught his parting beams; she gathered her little pupils once more around her, and warmed her chilled heart in the fires of their loving eyes. Her name was coupled with blessings by many, who had been soothed in suffering by her gentle ministrations and ever-ready sympathy. 
               Active as she was in the discharge of the humble duties of a lowly station, in the offices of charity, often would the thought of what might have been, sink her heart despondingly but not long did she suffer these thoughts to hold the ascendancy; and those who saw her cheerful amid her little band, dispensing the rich stores of knowledge with liberal hand, sweet smile, and winning words, or seated in her accustomed place in the quiet church, her pure face irradiated with the holy inner-light,-a bright reflection from the light on high,-dreamed not of the contest which had been decided, of the victory which that uncomplaining heart had won over itself. Thus the "rainbow-winged steeds," which bear the cars of the bright or sad-eyed hours, which pause not in their rapid course for human joy or woe, passed on. She heard that Allan had left his home to roam a heart-weary wanderer in foreign climes, and sorely did she grieve for the sufferings his proud, untutored heart endured. 
               When the winds howled fearfully around her sheltered cot, her prayers ascended for the preservation of him, who might then be exposed to the perils of the treacherous deep; but no tidings reached her after he was gone; no murmured voice of the far-off sea came to assure her of his safety; and, even while she prayed, she knew not but that his bright head was pillowed upon the sands of the fathomless deep, his ear deaf to the sound of its eternal roar, his eyes insensible to the beauties of the coral temples, with their lamps of pearl. Yet her faith failed not. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               ZENAIDA was sitting in the portico one evening, when she saw the "ole man," Uncle Harry, come through the gate and walk leisurely up to her. 
               "Mistis," he said, taking off his hat, which he deposited carefully on the step, then crossing his hands upon his breast, and bowing profoundly, "I'se got some letters fur you from the post-office, bless the Lord!" 
                
               "Oh, thank you, Uncle Harry!" she cried, eagerly. "Where are they?" 
               "I'se got 'em in my coat-pockit, mistis," responded Harry. "I was 'fraid I'd lose 'em, an' so I pinned 'em in," he said, apologetically, as he nervously worked to pull the pins out, sorely trying the patience of Zenaida. "Here they is, motter o' fact!" he said, triumphantly, as he placed them in her hand. 
               "I am much obliged to you, Uncle Harry. It was very kind in you to think of calling for my letters without being told." 
               "Bless the Lord, mistis!" exclaimed Uncle Harry, fervently, swinging himself after his usual fashion; "I'd be a brute beast, ef I wasn't willin' to do anythink I could for you,-a real Morris, motter o' fact!" With which emphatic declaration, he walked away, muttering as he went,-"Yes, bless the Lord! my young mistis is the sweetest, prettiest-spoken thing I ever seed, motter o' fact! Its 'Uncle Harry, please do this,' an' 'thank'ee, Uncle Harry;' fur, bless God, she thinks black folks has souls an' feelins, as well as white ones! Jist like the Morrises; an' I would be willin' to lay down this blessid minit an' have my head chopped clean off with a meat-ax, if it would please her, motter o' fact! Bless the Lord!" he concluded, with a deep groan and a long-drawn sigh. 
                
               Zenaida, unconscious of Uncle Harry's complimentary soliloquy, was soon deeply absorbed in the letters. They were from Helen, Arthur, and kind Mrs. Bankhead; but a paper, which she had at first overlooked, bore a postmark mark with which she was not familiar. She opened it, and a marked paragraph arrested her attention. It was a eulogy upon a speech which had been delivered by an adopted citizen of the place, the talented Francis Churchill. 
               "His reputation is established," thus it ran, "as one of the most profound legal scholars,-one of the most brilliant, and incontrovertibly argumentative orators of the bar. He adorns the driest and dullest of themes with the most glowing imagery, the most brilliant flowers of rhetoric, the most graceful and irresistibly touching pathos,-with gems from the mines of ancient and modern lore. This young man, gifted with these abilities, may confidently aspire to the highest position to which he can possibly be elevated by his appreciative fellow-citizens. In our political firmament he will shine, not with the fiery, ephemeral light of the comet, but with the steady, radiance of a star of the first magnitude." 
               This beginning of the verification of her prophecies, filled Zenaida with delight. "The star of Churchill's destiny is in the ascendant," she said. "Who can tell how high it will rise, ere it reaches its culminating point? His motto is 'Excelsior,' and no height will be inaccessible to his soaring ambition. This laudation is the first faint note from the trump of Fame,-the prelude to a blast that shall echo his name through many lands." 
                
               At intervals she received these papers, each succeeding one striking a higher note in the diapason of praise. 
                
               Frank had located in one of those cities of the West, the growth of which is almost fabulous; where palaces spring up as if their owners were possessed of the magic lamp of Aladdin, and could command the services of genii; where the undulating sea of prairie grass and flowers is remorselessly arched with bridges of brick, which bide forever its glowing, emerald depths; where the sacred solitudes of Nature, which had before echoed the sweet notes of wild birds, or the occasional sound of the ax of some ruthless Vandal, who, without compunction, felled those lofty-headed forest-kings which had reigned supreme until his advent, are now disturbed by the shrill, discordant scream of the steam-whistle. 
               Here he found a field for his labors, and was soon recognized as a leader, a master-spirit, upon whose lips most eloquent the people hung entranced; whose word was soon indisputable authority; at whom wise men of business pointed their finger as he passed, saying confidently,-"A rising man; one with whom it will be well to be on good terms." 
               Each effort that he made, each success that crowned that effort, but incited him to still greater exertion. 
               "Zenaida," was the thought of his heart, "has laid the foundation-stone of my fame and prosperity, and upon it will I, Deo volente, build a superstructure, in viewing which, its proportions may dazzle even her eyes, which, like the soaring eagle's, can gaze upon the most splendid and lofty objects. And, when I have accomplished my work, when I have achieved my fame, I will lay my honors at her feet, and offer them humbly to her acceptance." 
               Thus he walked beneath the bow of Hope, which spanned his life with its radiant hues; his eyes ever intent upon the dream-castle which his imagination had reared in the future, decking it gorgeously with brilliant light and illusive splendors; ignorant, fond dreamer, that the heart of his bright guardian-angel had been offered up upon a shrine perhaps less lofty than his own. Dream on while thou mayest, ere these hues of glory fade from thy sky, leaving it dull and drear, with no gleam of light to relieve its dark, leaden sombreness! Thy bark now glides peacefully in a tranquil, current, in the clear, mirror-like surface of which are reflected the blushing roses of love which fringe its banks,-the clear, deep-blue of heaven,-the holy, constant stars; soft airs from Elysian fields fan thy brow, lulling thy heart to reveries of bliss; but soon a change will come, and the winds will rave madly round; the boiling waves threaten to engulf thee. Above thee, in the high temple of Fame, thine eyes see not the form of that abstract, inanimate divinity; but Zenaida Morris stands there, beckoning thee onward and upward with her fair hand, encouraging with smiling lips and love-lit eyes. Will thy exalted position be truly valued, when, arrived at the summit, thou dost find the living, loving heart no longer there; when thou dost realize, that in grasping at a substance, thou hast clasped a shadow? God help thee then, stricken heart! 
               Woman, when her heart is wounded, flies at once to the good Physician; but man, proud, haughty being that he is, denies that he is wounded, even while the barbed arrow is sticking in his side. He permits not the gentle balm to be poured with healing efficacy, preferring the pain of a lacerated and bleeding heart to the acknowledgment of the truth, that he is not invulnerable, and has been overcome. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               THE intercourse between Helen and Arthur's family, since their reconciliation, had been pleasant, and Helen was now valued according to her worth. 
               She was sitting in her pleasant parlor one evening, thinking over the past,-her own happiness, her husband's unfailing love,-contrasting her lot with the loneliness of her sweet, young sister; and, while she thought, her heart was filled with overflowing emotion, and a tear fell upon the face of little Harry, whose arms were clasped around her neck. As he looked up, with wonder in his bright, laughing eyes, she kissed it off, murmuring, in a broken voice,-"What have I done, that God should be thus good to me, unworthy as I am of so many blessings?" 
               "Why, Helen!" cried the gay voice of Arthur, "I have stolen a march upon you, and I do not feel as if I were at home unless you meet me at the door. What is the matter?" he continued, raising her head, and detecting the tears which were swimming in her eyes. "Why, Helen! from what quarter blew this passing cloud, the drops from which are yet trembling on your drooping lashes?" 
               "It matters not," replied Helen, "as my tears are more of joy than sorrow." 
               "I am glad to hear that," said Arthur, as he stooped to raise Harry, imprinting a kiss upon her brow. 
                
               "There is something for you, wife!" he exclaimed, as he tossed a letter into her outstretched hand. 
               "A letter from Zenaida?" she asked. 
               "No, said Arthur; "look at it." 
               The envelope contained the cards of Miss Bernard and Col. Philip Ashley, with the compliments of Mr. and Mrs. Bernard for Thursday evening. 
               "Who is Col. Ashley, your brother that is to be?" queried Helen. "He is not a resident of our city." 
               "No, he is from Carolina," replied Arthur, "and is almost an entire stranger to me. Florida thought that I had chosen a partner to please myself, without consulting her and I received no intimation of her regard for this gentleman, until I was notified of her approaching marriage. My judgment of him would be favorable, were I influenced by his appearance; for he is most gallant in his bearing, distingu in his manner. Then, too, he is a son of the chivalrous South-one who would lead a forlorn hope; who would walk to the cannon's mouth with unbleached cheek and unfailing eye; who would, for liberty's sake, offer up his life with the devotion of a Hampden or a Kosciusko." 
               "Florida will leave our city, when she marries, then?" said Helen. 
               "Yes," replied Arthur; "a woman who marries a soldier has no abiding habitation, but must vow, as Ruth to Naomi. 'Where thou goest, I will go.'" 
                
               It is the evening of the bridal, and the large mansion of Mr. Bernard is brilliant with light, and its halls resound with festive music. The arts of the most skillful modistes had been called into requisition for this occasion, and no expense was spared, by fair ladies, to render themselves yet more dazzlingly beautiful; each one striving to excel her neighbor in the costliness of her attire, and the rich profusion of jewels, forgetful of the assertion of the poet, that "Beauty needs not the foreign aid of adornment," or remembering it only to say, with curling lips, that "The poet was mistaken." 
               Amid the brilliant throng the fair bride stood, the cynosure of all eyes. She was attired with faultless taste, with elegant simplicity, such as ever characterized her adornment, and leaned proudly upon the arm of Ashley, as if glorying in acknowledging before the world her dependence upon him, her woman's faith in his nobleness and truth. 
               "Paul," said the familiar voice of Bruce Wilson, "why do we linger in the drear confines of bachelordom, while other men secure companions through life such as that queenly beauty, than whom Semiramis, Zenobia, or Marie Antoinette could not have been more stately?" 
               "Look around upon this waving sea of jewels and plumes," replied Paul, "and see if the prospect is not enough to terrify a man unless he were the owner of the purse of Fortunatus or had a fairy godmother! I could never endure the inanities of a silly woman, the bluestockingism of a learned one, the extravagant follies of a fashionable, or the pietism and asceticism of a devotee, ergo-" 
               "I will never be called upon to sing your epithalamium," said Bruce. "The torch of Hymen will never flame for you!" 
               "A delightful prospect, in good sooth!" replied Paul; "and for this vaticination I thank thee, most agreeable of oracles!" 
               "Oh, most cynical of bachelors!" said Bruce. "I verily believe that some of these fair divinities have rejected your offerings, and for you it is most unfortunate; for if the propensity for railing 'grows with your growth,' or rather with your years, I shall expect, ere long, to hear that you have built a tub, ' la Diogenes,' seated in which you may, at leisure, abuse 'all the world and the rest of mankind!'" 
               "As I am at present without any aim in existence," said Paul, "you had better equip me with a lamp, and start me out in search of an honest man, or a woman that is not mercenary; objects which, when found, would create in me astonishment and excitement intense as that which would have possessed your favorite Diogenes, had his search been successful. It is my opinion that I should be heartily weary ere I could assume the 'Eureka' expression of countenance which is in vogue among feminine limners of heroes at present." 
               "Mon cher, replied Bruce, "you bring a wrongful accusation against me, when you call Diogenes my favorite philosopher. I am a true disciple of Democritus, and think it better to laugh than to cry, even when some more fortunate swain steals and appropriates the heart of my ladye-love." 
               "By-the-by!" said Paul, "what has become of Miss Morris? Was she spirited away by some magician? Elliott did not secure the prize before he left; of course, because he did not think it worth the trouble; for no arguments would be potent enough to convince me that she could be so foolish as to reject the proffer of his hand and fortune." 
                
               "For awhile," sighed Bruce, "she shone upon me 'with all the lambent purity of planetary light;' but my star beams no longer visible above the line of my horizon, and the only way in which I can contemplate its lustre is through the telescope of faith." 
               "A most unsatisfactory medium," said Paul. "Where is she?" 
               "She returned from whence she came," replied Bruce, "and is now 'wasting her sweetness upon the desert air' of a country neighborhood, while my heart is desolate as the dwelling of Morna." 
               "Poor fellow!" said Paul; "I pity you!" 
               "You need not," replied Bruce; "for I think 
                      
                        ''Twere a shame, when flowers around us rise, 
                        To make light, of the rest of the rose is not there; 
                        And the world is so full of resplendent eyes, 
                        'Twere a pity to limit one's love to a pair.' 
                     
                   And so I, 
                      
                        'When far from the lips that I love, 
                        Have but to market love to the lips that are near.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "Oh, most incorrigible disciple of Tom Moore!" ejaculated Paul; "like a bee or a butterfly you sip the honey of smiles and sweet words from the nectareous lips of these flowers that adorn the parterres of life, until I wonder that you sicken not with the sweets upon which you feed." 
               "I get a quantum sufficiency of vinegar for my salad of life from you," replied Bruce. "I wish I had some moral alkali, of which I might administer you a dose, that would mitigate the biting acidity of your composition. The apple-tree tree of life bears some fine fruit; but you are of the genus crab-apple, and are fit only to be shaken from the boughs." 
               "What would you have me do, Bruce?" inquired Paul, smiling. "Join the dance of fools in this great farcical drama of life?" 
               "All are not fools who dance and make merry," replied Bruce; "but I would rather be gay with those whom you, in your superior wisdom, denominate fools, than drink the wine of life mingled with the gall of your satirical bitterness. I agree with Horace, seize the pleasures of the passing day: 'Quid sit futurum eras, fuge qurere.' But I am weary of this moralizing, of standing, Lara-like, looking on at the flying feet of the dancers, and, unlike him, I am not too lofty to stoop to join in the gay pastime. Come, Paul, for once in your life follow my good example, and select a partner from these scores of pretty faces." 
               "Excuse me," said Paul, "I like eating better than dancing, and a glass of the senior Bernard's champagne is more alluring than the smiles of Venus and the Graces." 
                
               "Here, Bruce," called out Arthur, as he left Paul and was crossing the room in search of a partner, "what is the reason that you are wandering about here, like an unlaid ghost; you, the most gallant, ladies' man in the city? I am afraid you are retrograding." 
               "Oh!" replied Bruce, "I am just now going up and down like the 'roaring lion, seeking whom I may devour;' or, like a bird of prey, am hovering over this fair assembly, uncertain whom I shall bear off for my partner in the next sett." 
                
               "Yonder is Miss Athanasia Morrisson," said Arthur; "I am sure 'she is all your fancy painted her.'" 
               "She is," replied Bruce, emphatically, "and a little more, too. She is as unwieldy as a hippopotamus. I would as soon undertake to bear the burden of Atlas, as to sustain the ponderous immensity of Miss Athanasia in a waltz or schottische, and she could never be 'persuaded by the wealth of Attalus' to dance a simple dance. But," he continued, "I verily believe I will take her to supper, just for the pleasure of seeing her devour lobster-salad, oysters, and confections, ad libitum; though to wait upon her will be as onerous a task as Major Pendennis imposed upon himself when he undertook to feed the Begum, Lady Clavering." 
               "Bruce," said Arthur, laughing, "you ought to be gibbeted for talking thus disrespectfully about one of the belles!" 
               "The half is not told," replied Bruce; "I'll bet you a horse she can drink more champagne than I can, and I speak from experimental experience, (as the old preacher said,) when I declare that I am no despicable hand at the business." 
               "For shame, Bruce, thus to slander a fair lady!" said Arthur. 
               "She is fair 'over ze left,'" replied Bruce; "fair as Candace, Queen of Ethiop, or Cleopatra of Egypt, or Pocahontas, Princess of the wild-wood; but this assertion which I have made is no slander. It is a truth which, if 'crushed to earth, will rise again,' elastic as an India-rubber ball!" 
               "Then truth is stranger than fiction!" responded Arthur. 
                
               "That," said, Bruce, "is an aphorism, of the verity, of which every one must be convinced, as it has been most industriously promulgated in all ages; but it is constantly repeated, as if it were a recent discovery, to be ranked with plows that work without hands or horses, or the steam machine into which a man put a live calf on one side, and from which he drew a pair of boots on the other!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               "HAVE you heard the news?" said Paul, as he met Bruce on the street. 
               "No," he replied; "I have not been circulating very extensively this morning, and have heard nothing. Anything remarkable?" 
               "Only the blowing out of the brains of that good-for-nothing gambler, Ridgely," replied Paul, with a curl of the lip. 
               "Ah!" said Bruce. "When and how did that occur?" 
               "The man that committed the act, instead of being prosecuted, ought to be honored with a vote of thanks from the citizens generally, for ridding the place of a nuisance," continued Paul. "It is the old story over again. A young man, whom Ridgely had cheated at cards, inflamed with wine and the desire for vengeance, threatened his life. Ridgely very coolly pocketed his winnings, and laughed, scornfully, when warned by some gentleman present to beware of his adversary. His conduct, and the remark which the young man overheard, that 'he was not afraid of that fool,' exasperated him so that he drew a pistol, and, before aug of the by-standers could interfere, presented it at Ridgely, and fired." 
               "Was be killed instantly?" inquired Bruce. 
               "The ball was aimed at his heart," replied Paul; "but Ridgely dodged, and it entered his head, shattering the skull and perforating the brain. He was dead before the intelligence could reach his wife, and the first intimation she had of the affair was when his body was carried home." 
               "She was at Bernard's last night," said Bruce, "and bore herself as regally as ever, little dreaming of the calamity about to befall her, the disgrace about to be entailed upon the name she bears." 
               "No doubt," replied Paul, "she looks upon this as a merciful dispensation, and is delighted to get rid of him, even at the expense of this shock to her feelings. She must feel it, for, however selfish and callous-hearted she may be, she is still human, and must have some lingering spark of sensibility." 
               "I suppose," said Bruce, "she will retire to the country until her wounded spirit is healed." 
               "Rather," replied Paul, "until the affair has ceased to be the common talk of the town. She will then rise, like the phnix, from the ashes of this humiliation, to shine again in society; for her vanity is as insatiable as the grave, and she cannot long endure the solitariness of a country life. As far as her name is concerned, she will release herself from the odium attached to it, by changing it as soon as she can find a 'Barkis' who is willing to bestow his own upon her. She will be at the springs next summer; in Washington next winter, fishing for some minnow of a Congressman, by most people dignified with the title of whale." 
               "Paul, Paul!" replied Bruce, "you have no faith in the better nature of humanity. I hope you do not judge others by your own heart!" 
                
               When Annie looked upon the cold, inanimate form of Ridgely, from which the spirit had been dislodged by the bloody hand of the murderer, the pride of her nature was for a time forgotten, and the old love, which she had felt, which had been so lightly valued, returned again, overwhelming her heart with a flood of tenderness and deep compassion. She thought of him then, not as he had manifested himself since their marriage, as the unloving husband, the cold, the cruel; she thought not how her love had been scorned, until, to all observers, she repaid him with scorn more bitter than his own, while her heart secretly bled from the wounds he had so wantonly inflicted; but she thought of the time when his whispered flatteries had fallen sweet as honey-dew upon her heart; when he had bowed in homage (how could she know it was feigned?) before her, a gay, imperious beauty; when, before the altar, in the sight of Heaven, he had vowed to protect and cherish her, and she (fond fool that she was!) had relied upon his truth with confidence not to be shaken, save by himself. 
               While these old memories swept over her, she was softened, and her eyes were blinded by fast-falling tears; but, ere long, the counter-current set in, and the tears flowed no longer from her eyes. She thought now of her wrongs, of her sufferings, which she had not merited at his hand; of the indignities which had been heaped upon her by him; of the indifference she had been compelled to assume to hide her anguish from the rude gaze of the vulgar,-the mantle of snow with which she concealed the raging volcano within; and then she looked again upon the dead, and her heart whispered that she was avenged. She was freed now from chains which had galled, was released from the bondage which was growing every day more insupportable, from which she would long since have called upon the law to liberate her, had not the publicity of a trial, the odium attached to it, the curiosity of the scandal-loving world been more unendurable to her, even in imagination, than a death by the slow torture which she felt. 
               Death, more mighty than the law, had come to her relief, and set his seal, not to be violated, upon her bill of divorcement. 
               Ridgely had been cruel to her, and cruelly had his punishment been meted out by the hand of the murderer. Why should she weep for him, when she knew that had she died, he would not have shed one tear? 
               Though the dead man had been unloved by all, yet his remains were followed by many to their last resting-place; none of whom mourned that the thread of his life had been so remorselessly severed. No sufferer, whom his hand had relieved, watered his grave with the tear of grateful affection; no orphan, whom his charity had nourished, refused to be comforted for the loss of a kind benefactor. The mourners turned away, regretting not that they would meet him no more in their daily walks; for his presence had diffused fused no joy; no hand was pressed by him in love's fellowship; but his brow had been dark with the scowl of hate, his lip curled in defiant scorn, and, like Ishmael of old, his hand was against every man, and every man's hand against him. 
               His grave was one of many in that beautiful city of the dead. Above it the pride of his wife reared a stately marble; above it the grass grew green, as the verdure of love had never done from his living heart, and around it bloomed bright flowers and evergreens, speaking mockingly of undying affection, of enduring remembrance. 
               He was dead, and no voice of love or pity whispered, "He sleeps the sleep of the righteous." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               ANOTHER year had passed, "bearing its wishes, hopes, and fears," since Allan left his native land. Who can tell how long it seemed to his mother, who, for some months, had heard no tidings of her son? 
               She wandered restlessly through the house, where everything remained as Allan had left it; where his books, arranged by his hands, were faithfully returned to their places. The mark was yet in the page of one where he had last read; his chair still stood, as when he had last risen from it, impatiently pushing it back from the study-table. 
               When the flowers he loved bloomed luxuriantly, she would whisper to her anxious heart, "Allan must be coming, and they have arrayed themselves to give him welcome;" but, day by day, as the hours flew, and he came not, hope grew less strong within her. 
               "He must be ill," she would say, sick with sad forebodings, "or he would have written to me, his poor mother;" and then her fancy would portray him ill and suffering, with no one to soothe, no one to comfort; or she would start fearfully from perturbed dreams, in which she had seen him, pale with the ghastly pallor of the dead; his loved form dressed for burial by careless, stranger hands; his grave neglected, perhaps violated. Sometimes she would see him struggling with the stormy waves of ocean, at one moment lifted high upon the summit of the white-crested wave, the next sinking far down out of sight, while her heart alternated between hope and despair. 
                
               As soon as strength had begun to return to the wasted form of Allan, when his blood, free from the consuming heat of fever, beat once more with calm and regular pulsations, no caution of his physicians, no fear of relapse, no desire to visit countries which he had not yet seen, was powerful enough to restrain him, and he prepared to follow with his steps where his heart had long gone before. 
               His mother's anxiety on his behalf would, he knew, be very great, and he would have written to allay it, "But," he said, "I will be with her as soon as my letter, and her surprise will be so joyful, so grateful to my heart after its long fasting from all the dainty food of love!" 
               The letters which he received from home had been few, though many had been written by the loving hand of her who sat there awaiting his coming, sick with hope deferred. 
                
               He had heard nothing of Zenaida, and once he almost tortured himself into the belief that she had forgotten the love which she had professed for him, had consoled herself with the devotion of another; and that when he, with true heart and unfailing faith, presented himself before her, he would hear from her lips the knell of his hopes, "she had bestowed her hand upon another." But this thought he rejected as unworthy both of himself and her, and, as he watched the gorgeous beauty of the ocean-sunset, or gazed upon the depths beneath, in which the moon and stars were lovingly reflected, his soul, impressed by the grandeur of the one, the still loveliness of the other, longed for her, that he might pour out to her attentive ear the new thoughts, the feelings, which oppressed him, with a joy so intense that it was nearly allied to pain. 
               The rapid course of the stately ship was all too slow for his impatience, and he wished for the wings of the wind, the speed of the lightning, that he might annihilate the distance intervening between them. 
               At last his eye, eagerly expectant, can discern the blue, dim outline of the shore, which seems to approach nearer and more near, until, at last, the harbor is spread out before him, with its forests of masts; the pier is touched, and the streets of the metropolis of the New World are trodden by his hurrying feet. Not long did he linger, for no place could afford him rest while his eye and heart were intently fixed upon his own home, the goal of his desires, to which he pressed forward without consciousness of fatigue. 
                
               Mrs. Elliott sat alone, her thoughts occupied with the absent one. The trees waved their leafy boughs joyously in the sunlight; the birds hopped from limb to limb, caroling their gay songs; the flowers nodded their bright heads in salutation of the passing breeze. All Nature was rejoicing in light, life, and beauty; and the heart of the sorrowful mother found no sympathy in its sorrow. 
               The flowers and birds reveled in the light, which was their life; but the light which gave life to the heart of Mrs. Elliott, the beam of Allan's eye, the joyance of Allan's smile, fell not upon her. So her eyes, which look reproachfully upon these things which he had loved and tended, because they could still be bright and glad though he was not there to see them, were dimmed with tears. 
               Thus absorbed, she noted not the footfall behind her-saw not the intruder, who was gazing with sympathetic sadness upon the bright drops which rolled unheeded down her face, and fell silently upon her hands, clasped in deep dejection. 
               "Mother!" said a musical, well-remembered voice, so close to her that she started with affright; and, as she turned, Allan stood before her, so pale, so thin, so ethereal in his beauty, that, seen through the blinding mist of tears, he seemed a spirit from the unseen world who had come to confirm her worst fears. But the arms which clasped her in a close embrace-the voice which called upon her by all the old, endearing names she had so pined to hear-the lips which pressed fond kisses upon hers-the eyes, eloquent with love's divine language, which gazed into her own, were not those of a spirit; and under the influence of these caresses she soon revived from the sorrow which had oppressed her. 
               When she was more composed, he told her all that had befallen him-the love which, when rejected, had turned into a madness that had driven him from his home and her-the grief, the long agony of his mind, the blessed light which had dawned upon him-his awakened hopes, and his great joy at finding himself once more at home. And her heart was glad when she saw him before her; when she smoothed, with lingering, loving touch, the masses of his soft, brown hair; when she gazed once more into the depths of his dear eyes, and saw that the look of anguish and despair was gone, that love again asserted its dominion. 
               For days after his return he was weary and faint; but the air of home, the old familiar room, the mute welcome of all his beloved, inanimate friends, and, above all, the happiness of his mother, soon revived him; and it was known in the city circles that the accomplished Elliott had returned-his heart true to his native place as the needle to the pole. 
                
               "Ah!" said one fair belle to another as they met, "do you know that Allan Elliott has returned?" 
               "Yes," replied the lady addressed; "but I do not feel much interest in him. I have long since given him up as a desperate case. He either has no heart, or it has been fortified against all, the assaults of the ladies by a dip in the Stygian wave, or is protected by a buckler of 'oak and triple brass.'" 
               "'Tis a pity," said the first lady, "that some of the girls should be compelled to draw blanks, when there is such a capital prize as he in the lottery of Cupid!" 
               "This little blind deity works plenty of mischief," responded the other. "He has aimed at Mr. Elliott with a leaden arrow, while the ones pointed at us are golden, and do not fail to wound." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
               "PAUL," said Bruce Wilson, "I want you to go home with me this evening." 
               "To procure an introduction to your sister, who, I hear, has just returned from school?" inquired Paul. 
               "Yes," replied Bruce; "I have told her so much about you, that she is half dead with curiosity to see you." 
               "If that be the case," said Paul, "I think I had better stay away, as I do not wish to cause her a severe disappointment." 
               "You do not really believe that she would be disappointed, if you had been represented to her as a paragon of all excellence-as beautiful as Apollo or Adonis, as learned as Bacon or Newton, as eloquent as Clay, and as accomplished as Sir Philip Sidney or the Chevalier Bayard? You are fishing for compliments; but I will not burn incense on the altar of your vanity, neither will I allow you to refuse to accompany me home. Maude is much like me, and you are so devoted an admirer of my fascinating self, that you cannot fail to like her." 
                
               "Being like you is not a very favorable recommendation; I consider it rather an equivocal compliment to your fair sister," said Paul; "but I will go with you." 
                
               A conversation, which had previously taken place between Bruce and his sister, gave rise to the one just mentioned. 
               Miss Maude Wilson had just returned from a fashionable boarding-school, where, according to a custom prevalent among young ladies, her old-fashioned, homely name, Matilda, given in honor of a good old grandmother, had been metamorphosed into Maude, which the young lady declared to be more fashionable, and not so odious as the name she had borne at home. With this appellation Bruce honored her when he wished to conciliate her, or render himself peculiarly agreeable; but at other times he would outrage her feelings by calling her "Tilda" or "Tilly," "Mat" or "Matilda." His letters to her, while she was at school, which bore either of these "horrid superscriptions," were thrown indignantly aside by Miss Maude, until her curiosity to see what brother Bruce had to say would conquer her anger. 
                
               "Brother Bruce," said Maude, as they sat together a few days after her arrival, "I am tired to death of that stupid old school, where I was not allowed to have any beaux." 
               "Haven't a doubt of it, Tilda," said Bruce, demurely, interrupting her. "Always heard an open confession was good for the soul, and am glad you appear to wish to give yours the benefit to be derived from it." 
               "Bruce," said Maude, indignantly, "don't be so odious; keeping up a running commentary upon everything that I say, and calling me by that horrid name." 
                
               "Don't fret, sissy," replied Bruce; "but shake hands and make friends, bury the tomahawk and smoke the calumet!" 
               "Brother Bruce," exclaimed Maude, loftily, "I would not be so absurdly ridiculous." 
               "Family failing!" sighed Bruce; "and people that live in glass houses hadn't ought to throw stones. But, Maude, go on, and tell me about the school, where you wanted to have beaux and couldn't." 
               "I don't believe I'll say another word," said Maude, pouting her red lips. "You shock me monstrously, brother Bruce, talking in that horrid style. 'Hadn't ought to!'" curling her lip in ineffable disdain; "much good going to college has done you! But," she continued, brightening up, "are there any nice beaux in town whom it would pay to captivate?" 
               "Some delightful ones," replied Bruce; "but, like the grapes in the fable, I fear they hang too high for you." 
               "What an insult!" cried the outraged Maude. "Do you mean to say, sir, that I do not possess sufficient power to attract them? Look at me," she continued, standing before him, erecting her petite figure to its greatest height, "and retract that speech, which, you must know, has no foundation in truth, or be beneath the ban of my displeasure!" 
               "To live beneath your dire displeasure, with your wrath hanging over me like the sword of Damocles, would be an unenviable fate; but," said Bruce, surveying her deliberately, "this is a case of conscience, and I cannot retract, or if I was forced to do so, like Galileo, in the same breath with my recantation I should renew my first assertion." 
               "Well," replied Maude, "to prove that this assertion is false, introduce me to the most intractable, the most incorrigible, confirmed, odious old bachelor of your acquaintance, and I'll bet you a new coat against a handsome dress that I will, as Mr. Weller says, 'circumwent' him in double-quick time. You do not believe it?" 
               "I must confess that I am somewhat incredulous," said Bruce; "and I defy you to lead captive, with all your arts, my particular friend, Paul Anderson, who is proof against the machinations of old, experienced manuverers, and would but laugh if he knew that his conquest was confidently calculated upon by a tyro like yourself. I am afraid the contest between you would be too unequal to be interesting to a looker-on." 
               "I am dying to encounter this gentleman," replied Maude. "You must present him to me, brother Bruce." 
               "I may as well spare myself the trouble," said Bruce, with a sparkle of delight in his eye, as he saw how sorely he vexed his sister. "Do you want to know what he would call you?" 
               "Yes," replied Maude, quickly; "what is it?" 
               "A nursery miss, who smacks of bread and butter," said Bruce. 
               "I'll have my revenge for this," cried Maude, with contracted brow and flashing eyes. "Nursery miss, indeed!" 
               "'Let not your angry passions rise,' Matilda," said Bruce, provokingly; "you certainly have not had time in the few days past to forget that wise nursery rhyme, and the good, pious lesson it inculcates." 
               "Bruce," exclaimed Maude, vehemently, "you are not to be endured, you odious creature! I'll tell mother, if you don't let me alone," she continued, with tears in her eyes. 
               "Don't cry, Tilda," said Bruce, coaxingly, patting her on the head. "It will spoil its little eyes, and then what will become of the designs upon my unsuspecting friend? But I have worried you enough for one time, so I will go down town. I suppose I must find Paul, and bring him home with me, by way of a peace-offering." 
               "I am so glad you are gone," said Maude, as he closed the door. "Bruce," she soliloquized, "has the power to irritate me, and he does not fail to use it; but he, I verily believe, is proud of me, and I will love him dearly, if he will help me to catch this Paul, who is worth fishing for." 
                
               Miss Maude was a pretty, willful, petulant, spoiled child, who would not endure contradiction from any one. Her parents indulged her in every whim, and, for the slight portion of goodness which remained uncorrupted in her heart, they deserved but little credit. 
               Bruce was inclined to be fond of her; but she was so irascible, that he could not resist the temptation to provoke her on many occasions, which he could do easily by assuming a patronizing air,-by talking to her as if she were still a child. 
               Maude was unlike Bruce in appearance, as well as in disposition. Her hair and eyes were black, her complexion not fair; her cheeks rosy as a ripe peach. 
               On this evening, having forgotten the provocations of Bruce, she was unusually gay, and dressed herself carefully, looking very pretty when her toilet was completed. 
                
               "I am confident," she said, "that brother Bruce will come home accompanied by Paul Anderson, and I will look my prettiest; for I know that a great deal depends upon a favorable first impression." 
                
               "Mr. Anderson is quite an elegant gentleman," she said, to herself, after he had taken his departure. "I wonder if he is really as horridly insensible as brother Bruce says he is? In trying to fascinate him, I will have to keep guard over my own heart, if a little gipsy, like myself, may be supposed to possess an article so unfashionable. A heart is very inconvenient to one who is determined to be a belle, as I will be, brother Bruce to the contrary notwithstanding. I can, or ought to please," she continued, standing before her mirror, and contemplating her face and form, which, in her partial eyes, appeared very charming. "I was quite amiable to-night, as I did not wish to frighten this 'gentilhomme' by a display of any of my perversities; but if, when I once get him safely in my toils, I do not lead him a merry dance, my name is not Maude Wilson!" 
                
               "What impression do you think I made upon your friend, brother Bruce?" inquired Maude, a few days after. 
               "Do my ears deceive me?" said Bruce, with a tragic recoil, and an accent of intense astonishment; "or do they convey correctly the words of my sister Matilda? Do you flatter yourself that you could make any impression upon the heart of the fastidious Paul? I can assure you, little one, that your words and actions glided off from the smooth, polished surface of his heart, as the tears from the cheeks of the marbleized Niobe. Impression, indeed!" he said, with a contemptuous whistle. "Why, Tilly, your presumptuous vanity surpasses all bounds-as it even exceeds my own." 
               "Brother Bruce!" cried the exasperated Matilda, "I'll tell father, if you continue to render yourself so disagreeable." 
               "I would, if I were you," replied Bruce; "and papa will recompense his little darling with a stick of sugar-candy, or a paper of bon-bons." 
               "Bruce," said his mother, entering at this moment, "are you teasing Matilda again? I wish you could find some other amusement." 
               "I was trying her temper, mother," he replied. "I wished to see what kind of metal she was made of." 
               "I hope your experiments have resulted satisfactorily," observed Maude. 
               "Certainly," replied Bruce; "Sheffield cutlery is not to be mentioned on the same day with you. You are as high-tempered as a Damascus razor, or the cabalistic sword of Solomon." 
               "Never mind him, Matilda," said the lady, turning to Maude. "Come, go down town with me, and I will get you something pretty." 
               "Just as I said, Matilda!" remarked Bruce, nodding to her as she left the room; "I knew mamma would sing the nursery-lullaby;,-'Hush 'ee by, and don't you cry.'" 
               Maude was too much delighted at the prospect of the beautiful ornaments that dazzled her fancy, called before it by her mother's indefinite promise, to stop to reply to Bruce. She ran off to get her bonnet, and as she joined her mother at the door exclaimed,-"What in the world has brother Bruce done for amusement since I have been away? His days must have been as dreary as a November fog in London!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
               ZENAIDA, in her quiet solitude, had learned from Helen that Allan had returned; but no word, no token came from him, to assure her that she was still remembered. 
               "It is hard," she thought, "to be thus forgotten, or to be remembered only in bitterness; to be cast out as unworthy from the heart where I once occupied the first place. Oh, Allan, my parting prayer was unheeded by you!" 
               Under the clouds of the Present, how glorious seemed the Past, surrounded by its bright halo of love! The breath from its odorous bowers swept over her heart, which wailed like a wind-tossed willow, and she sighed in her sadness,- 
                      
                        "Sweet memory! in thy haunted gallery let me roam; 
                        My heart is sad, mine eyes o'erflow with tears; 
                        Thou 'st treasured up bright thoughts of the loved one, 
                        The bloom, the freshness of departed years, 
                        And I would fain recall those vanished hours, 
                        Gilt with a glory all too bright for earth, 
                        When Hope wreathed for me a sweet crown of flowers, 
                        And sorrow checked not the glad voice of mirth. 
                     
                     
                      
                        "Days of the Past! a perfume round them lingers, 
                        Like the rich fragrance in the rose's heart; 
                        Oh, Grief! why wouldst thou, with remorseless fingers, 
                        Crush love's sweet blooms, till their bright life depart? 
                        Why shouldst thou with thy gaunt, grim, spectre form, 
                        Usurp a place at love's sweet feast of roses? 
                        Why shouldst thou plant upon my brow thy thorn; 
                        Why banish from my heart its soft reposes? 
                     
                      
                        "Be still, my heart! The purple grape is blushing, 
                        And tempting hangs upon its parent vine; 
                        A hand has plucked that grape, and from it, rushing, 
                        The tide of life pours out in fragrant wine. 
                        Like it, the soul with beauty bright was flushing, 
                        Seeming with more than mortal light to shine; 
                        So from its grief-wrung depths should now be gushing 
                        A flood of love less earthly, more divine." 
                     
                  
                
               "So when care and sorrow penetrated her heart, she filled the openings made by them with the pearls of great price-religion and true philosophy; as when the worms bore holes through the mother-of-pearl in the shell of the oyster, it fills them with the true pearl." 
               Thus she would become rich in the treasures of the soul, however poor and despicable in the eyes of a prosperity-worshiping world she might appear. 
               She schooled her heart to submission, and though the lonely future before her, at a glance, appalled even her true, brave heart, yet she resolved to look steadily upon it, hoping that it would lose its terror as she became familiarized with its aspect; and even though it should not, she could look above, beyond this life, to the reward of the faithful in heaven. She was thankful that Allan had been preserved served, that he had returned to comfort the heart; of his mother, though she might never see him, might never hear again that voice, the musical tones of which yet vibrated in her memory. 
                
               Oppressed with these conflicting thoughts, one bright, beautiful morning, a Sabbath in June, she directed her steps to the church, her mind insensibly soothed by the holy stillness which brooded over the earth. It seemed that the sun shone more softly than on other days, and the faint breeze scarcely rippled the surface of the water, or stirred the leaves of the trees. Thin, fleecy clouds floated dreamily in the air, white banners of peace, hung out from the battlements of heaven by the hand of the risen Lord, as tokens to his followers on earth of his watchful, unfailing love. 
               The church windows were open, and the light came in, subdued by the thick shadows of the trees, through the branches of which could be seen the deep-blue sky of heaven, the rich green fields of earth, which were blended into harmonious pictures,-the only ones that adorned the modest walls of this lowly house of God,-for which the window casements served as frames. The leaves of the trees rustled softly, as if giving utterance to the messages of Divine love which were borne upon the breeze; and, as this breeze entered, and filled the place where they sat, it came not with the "sound of the rushing mighty wind," but with a breath soft as music's faintest sigh. Zenaida felt the spirit-breath upon her cheek, and, as it fluttered the leaves of her Bible, her eye fell upon the words of the Saviour, "Come unto me, all ye that are weary and heavy-laden, and I will give you rest;" and she smiled as if she heard a voice from heaven appealing directly to her. 
               The voice of the good pastor fell gently upon the ear, quivering with deep emotion as it dwelt upon the wonders of God's love; and the hearts of those who heard him were attuned in harmony with the sweet quietude of Nature. 
               After service, kindly greetings were exchanged, and harsh voices sounded more sweetly, such was the benign influence of the holy day. 
                
               "Somebody done come while you bin gone, honey!" said mammy, mysteriously, as she met Zenaida at the gate. "I telled him you done gone to church, an' he say 'he would wait till you come,' an' thar he, is in the house, as good as his word." 
               "Who is it, mammy?" inquired Zenaida. 
               "I dunno," replied mammy; "but he's' mighty han'some, I tell you, honey; it does my ole eyes good to look at him." 
               "Who can it be?" said Zenaida, as she walked quickly up to the door. "Can it be Allan?" and, at this thought, her heart almost stopped beating. "No," she continued, reasoning with herself; "it cannot be Allan, and I am foolish to indulge such fancies." She paused a moment at the door to collect and compose her thoughts; to recover from the agitation into which she had been thrown by the mere supposition that it might be Allan, before entering the presence of one who might be a stranger to her. 
               Her step, as she entered, roused the gentleman, who was sitting in her accustomed seat by the window, holding a book in his hand, upon which his eyes had not rested. He now turned, and she saw before her-Allan. As she recognized him, a tumult of conflicting emotions raged so in her heart that, without speaking, she sank upon the nearest seat for support. 
               "Has he come," she thought, "to besiege me again with protestations of his love-with keen reproaches-again to be repulsed, again to agonize my heart?" 
               He rose, and came toward her; but her head was averted, her eyes blinded by tears, so that she could not see the joy, the hope, that beamed from his face radiantly. 
               "Zenaida," he said, softly, with reproachful tone, "is it thus you welcome me, with averted head and downcast eye; with no look of affection; no word of kindness? Has one year had power to eradicate all loving remembrance of me from your heart, which once was mine?" 
               Still was she silent; for, had she spoken, her voice must have betrayed her emotion. 
               "Zenaida," he said again, taking her cold hand in his, "I love you still, and come again to plead before you the cause of this love, which is too true, too deep, to be treated with indifference,-which the suffering of the past year has burned ineffaceably into my heart, long since repenting of the words of anger with which it parted from you." 
               "Oh, Allan!" she cried, withdrawing her hand, and covering her face, that she might hide its anguish from his penetrating glance; "Allan, why do you thus mock me? It cannot be that you have forgotten our former sorrow; it cannot be that you, who were always so gentle, have pleasure in thus reviving the memory of that grief. I was not actuated by caprice; and, knowing no cause that can have power to change my resolve, I still abide by the determination formerly expressed. Leave me; in mercy, leave me!" 
               "I will not leave you," he replied, "until you have heard me. I came not wantonly to injure your loving heart; for I know now that you decided against me in obedience to the dictates of your pure conscience. I now appeal from that decision, because the barrier which separated us has been removed, and I thank Him, who is now the object of my reverential homage and worship, that I can with truth give utterance to this assertion. Think not that I have been influenced to make this declaration in the hope that by this means I might win you. You know that whatever else I may have been, I was always sincere, always above resorting to strategy or subterfuge above a base condescension, even if I could thereby gain you, a treasure above all price. Before God, our Father, as I expect to render an account in the great and final day, I declare to you that I have, by the mercy of God, by the sweet influence of the Holy Spirit of love, been turned from darkness into light; that I have vowed allegiance to God as my Creator, to Christ as my Saviour; that I have opened the temple of my heart to the entrance of the Comforter, and that, for this faith, I am willing to lay down my life, and would account it the highest honor, if God would permit me to wear the martyr's crown, for Christ's sake." 
               He spoke rapidly, and with such solemn earnestness, such feeling, that Zenaida was convinced his words were truth; and to God, who had made her the instrument of his salvation, did her full heart pour out its joy and gratitude. The transition from the depths of distress to the summit of hope and love was so sudden, the shock of joyful surprise so great, that for some time she could only weep in silence. The flood-gates of the heart were opened, and the long pent-up tide gushed forth. 
               "Allan," she said, at last, drying her eyes, and looking up with the smile of new-found happiness brightening her sweet face; "Allan, forgive this weakness. The joy which your words infuse into my heart is deep, too deep for utterance. The shock of this unexpected happiness is so great, that you must allow me time to recover; I feel like the blind man suddenly restored to sight, and am bewildered by the dazzling radiance which shines upon my long-desolate pathway; not desolate, either, for God has been with me; but destitute of your great love, for which I have thirsted, as the traveler in the desert for the fountain of pure waters." 
               "Bless you for these words, which complete my happiness," replied Allan; "which make you mine. I need your truth, your unfaltering faith, your love, to strengthen the new-formed resolves of my soul. I need your bright example, which speaks more forcibly than a host of unpracticed precepts, to sustain me in the new path which has been opened for my wandering footsteps. I need the light unfading, unclouded, of your love to illumine my soul, when the darkness of by-gone days threatens to overshadow it again. You are willing to make the journey of life with me, and it shall be my study to repay your devotion." 
               "God is most merciful," said Zenaida, softly. "He has forgiven the repinings of my sorrow-stricken heart, and has crowned my life with love." 
                
               When Allan returned to the city it was with joyful heart, for Zenaida had promised to give her hand to him, who had long possessed her heart. He called to see Helen, and his happiness, which was betrayed in every word, tone, and look, taken in connection with his visit to Willowbrook, convinced her, beyond possibility of doubt, that a reconciliation with Zenaida had taken place. This being communicated to Arthur, he sat down forthwith to "indite an epistle," as he said, "to ascertain the truth." 
               "Come, sis," he began, "tell us all about it. Is Allan to be my brother, or Churchill? I feel a great interest in Frank; and, if I were a maiden, with two such lovers, I would wish for two hearts, that I might bestow one on each; for I should be puzzled to decide in preference of either, where the scale of merit is so equally balanced. If you prefer Allan, I shall be compelled to say that you have chosen well; but Frank's wife may possibly preside at the White House one of these days, and I would feel quite elevated if I could claim the Lady-President as my sister. So, you see, I am between the two horns of the dilemma." 
                
               "What does Arthur mean? He assumes that Frank is an avowed lover of mine, while the truth is, he has never spoken a word of love to me. He is only one of my esteemed friends," said Zenaida, as she mused over Arthur's letter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIX. 
               FRANCIS CHURCHILL, the orator, the son whom his native State was now proud to acknowledge, had returned on a visit, and every one was anxious that he should speak, that they might judge if reports concerning his talents were true. He yielded gracefully to the solicitations of his friends in L--, and proudly plumed himself for his loftiest flight. The effect was electric, and the fame of him, which went abroad, was such that in every town through which he passed, as he went to visit his mother in the interior of the State, he was waited upon by committees requesting him to speak, to untie the Gordian knot of politics; and he accepted the task, severing it with the keen, bright sword of his wisdom, to the satisfaction of all. If he soared so high in his flights of fancy that his audience could not comprehend, he was regarded with still greater admiration, and his progress through the country was one continued triumph. In every single-handed contest with the champions of opposing parties, he was declared the victor, and many were the adversaries who fell beneath the broad-sword of his argument, the keen rapier of his satire, or the diamond-pointed arrows of his wit. The people, willing to exalt their favorite, would have borne the vanquished before him, or have lashed them to the chariot of his triumph; but he was too generous to boast over a fallen foe, to exult in the downfall of an enemy. 
                
               "My dear Zenaida," said Mrs. Cabell, as she entered the Cottage, "I have called to see if you will go with me to-morrow to hear this famous Mr. Churchill speak. He is to be in our town, and I confess I feel a great desire to hear him. I am not in the habit of attending such meetings; but the gallant gentlemen of Montrose are so unselfish that they have determined to admit the ladies, as participants, to this feast of reason. I think this very commendable, for we ought not to be excluded; but gentlemen generally are somewhat like the Chinese: they would shut us out from all knowledge, except that which appertains to the domestic economy of our own households, and the Bible, which teaches us to be meek and obedient to their own lordly selves. For my part, I love to listen to an eloquent speaker, let his subject be what it may-religion, politics, literature, science, or art; yet there is not the slightest danger that I would ever wish to usurp the station which, of right, belongs to man, or to take the reins of the government chariot in my own hands; for I should guide the fiery coursers about as felicitously as Phaton did the coursers of the sun. But, excuse my long tongue: it is like a clock, and, when once wound up, is obliged to keep on until it runs down. Will you go?" 
               "With pleasure," replied Zenaida. "I, too, am exceedingly anxious to hear this celebrated orator, of whom report speaks so highly." 
               "I must caution you, my dear," said Mrs. Cabell, "against him. I understand that he is a man of remarkably fine appearance, and is also quite young; so do not fall in love with him until you ascertain the state of his affections." 
                
               Zenaida smiled, and promised to obey. 
               "I have persuaded Annie to go with us," continued the old lady. "Poor Annie! It is so dull for her at the Manor, with none but Mary and myself. She led so gay a life while she was in town." 
                
               The next day proved auspicious; and, after a pleasant ride, the ladies, arrived at the place which had been extemporaneously prepared for the speaker, whom all delighted to honor. A crowd had already assembled when the stately equipage from the Manor was driven up to the grove, adjoining the town, where the rude stand and rough seats had been arranged. It was a magnificent ball, with its stately pillars, the aged trees of the forest, crowned with their capitals of green leaves; its vaulted roof the blue of heaven, its floor the emerald grass. Here and there a stray gleam of sunshine, a golden arrow from the day-god's quiver, darted through the canopy of leaves; and, as Churchill advanced and uncovered his head, a bright ray fell upon him, surrounding his lofty brow with a halo of glory. 
               Zenaida saw, and thought herself unseen. She noted with delight the improvements that were manifest since she had last seen him. His head was proudly erect-his eye flashed with the almost intolerable blaze of intellectual splendor-his step was firm and elastic, and over the whole man was shed a stately dignity, a lofty consciousness of his own power. 
               His appearance was greeted by prolonged shouts of applause; but when he, with a graceful wave of his hand, commanded silence, not a murmur was audible. 
                
               "My dear," said Mrs. Cabell to Zenaida, after she had looked upon Frank for some moments in silence, "my caution to you was superfluous. There is before us a form 'upon which every god has set his seal, to give the world assurances of a man.'" 
               The multitude became the creatures of his will who were swayed by the breath of his power, and in the face of each one, as in a book, could be read the passing emotions which were called forth by his words. Like a skillful musician, he touched with cunning hand the strings of their hearts, and, at his pleasure, the notes of varying passions were sounded. All hung upon his words as if entranced; and when he ceased, silence fell upon their hearts, broken at first by a low murmur of applause, gradually swelling in volume, until the air was rent with one prolonged acclaim. 
               Frank bowed his acknowledgments, and descended from the platform ere he had stood. The people pressed round him, and would have shaken his hand until he was weary, in token of their great admiration, but he signified his desire to pass on, and the crowd divided, leaving a clear passage through. He walked straight to the seat occupied by Mrs. Cabell, Annie, and Zenaida; for his eye, attracted by the instinctive magnetism of love, had fallen upon her in its first wandering over the sea of faces below him. Zenaida saw that he was coming and greeted him with a beaming smile. 
               "A pleasure most unexpected, yet most welcome, Miss Morris," he said, as he extended his hand, and grasped hers cordially. "I was not aware that I was in your vicinity, until my eye, in roving over this wilderness of strange faces, lighted joyfully upon one bright flower, with whose beauty it was familiar." 
               "The hour of which I prophesied has come," she replied; "and my weak plaudit 'well done!' is drowned amid the acclaim of multitudes. Most heartily do I rejoice in your triumph, of which I have been a delighted witness; in which, honored as I am by you, I am also a participant." 
               "Praise from you," said Frank, in a low tone, "is dearer to me than the shouts of the multitude, and it rewards me for all my toil." 
               "Your speech," said Zenaida, blushing at his words, "gave me great pleasure; and when the last tone of your voice vibrated on my ear, I awoke as from a dream too delightful to be real. Yours is a noble talent, and most nobly have you applied it, realizing all my expectations." 
               "I did not think I could speak to-day, until I saw your expectant face," replied Frank. "Then I roused myself, fearful that you might be disappointed. But," he continued "I am so delighted to meet with you here, that I cannot consent to part hastily from you." 
               Zenaida then presented him to Mrs. Cabell and Annie. Mrs. Cabell expressed her pleasure at being favored with an introduction to one of whom she had heard so much, and even the haughty Annie looked favorably upon the hero of the day. 
               "My dear," said Mrs. Cabell to Zenaida, "you did not tell me that Mr. Churchill was an old friend; and in coming here to-day I thought that you, like myself, were actuated by a desire to hear a speech from one with whom you were acquainted merely by report." 
                
               "No, Mrs. Cabell," replied Zenaida, with an arch look at Frank; "but I did not wish to boast of my acquaintance precipitately, for this hero might not have deigned to cast a look of recognition upon my insignificant self, and then you would have thought my boast without foundation." 
               Frank looked at her reproachfully; but Mrs. Cabell waited not for the words which Zenaida saw were hovering on his lips. 
               "Mr. Churchill," said she, "Miss Morris is at present under my protection. She will return with me, to-day, to Cabell Manor, where I will be happy to entertain, as my guest, yourself. There are some other friends here whom I must take home with me," she continued, as she prepared to seek them; "and you must consider yourself bound to accept my invitation." 
               "I am only too happy to do so," replied Frank." 
                
               A happy party assembled that evening, in the hospitable halls of Cabell Manor. Mrs. Cabell, more than usually stately and kind; Annie, unbending from her frigid hauteur, in vain endeavor to enlist the attention of Frank; Zenaida, happy in her love, and triumphing in the success of her friend, more radiant than Frank had ever seen her; and Frank himself, gazing with joy upon her beaming face, or listening to the music of her silvery laughter. 
               "My dear," said Mrs. Cabell, taking her aside, "my warning came too late, as this young hero had already seen and conquered before to-day. I must congratulate you on your choice, though I am half angry because you told me nothing of him before." 
                
               "Nonsense, dear Mrs. Cabell," replied Zenaida. "Frank is my adopted brother. I have watched his upward ascent from the time that he placed his foot upon the first round of Fame's ladder, and it is but natural that I should rejoice in the height to which he has already attained; that I should be glad to see him-to see him as he is," she continued, raising her head proudly; "to know that he is worthy the esteem and confidence of all men." 
               "Poor fellow!" sighed Mrs. Cabell, as Zenaida left her, "if he is only a brother to her, I pity him; for if that lofty heart of his throbs not with more than a brother's love for her, I am not skilled in reading these mysteries." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XL. 
               THE next morning, Zenaida rose early, thinking that she would return home before the heat became too oppressive. As she went through the hall, she met Mrs. Cabell. 
               "Where are you going so early?"' inquired that lady. 
               "I must be at home this morning," replied Zenaida; "and the walk will be so pleasant while the air is fresh and cool." 
               "What!" exclaimed Mrs. Cabell. "Do you suppose I will permit you to break up our pleasant party thus? I will do no such thing. If you have anything to direct at home, as a great favor, I will allow you to go, but upon condition that you return again. Ah!" she said, as Frank appeared, "here is, Mr. Churchill. I will order horses for you, and will allow him the privilege of escorting you, if he will promise to bring you back again to spend the day with me. This arrangement will doubtless, be perfectly satisfactory." 
               "To me it will be," replied Frank, with a graceful bow. "Where are you going?" he asked, when Mrs. Cabell had left him alone with Zenaida. 
               "I am going home," she replied, "but Mrs. Cabell insists that I must return." 
               "That dear, old lady," said Frank, "appears to have an intuitive perception of that which is most agreeable to me, and I am much indebted to her for proposing this morning ride." 
               "I am glad that her proposition meets with your approbation," replied Zenaida; "otherwise I should dislike to have you impressed thus summarily into my service. Mrs. Cabell left you no choice; but commanded you to accompany me, nolens volens." 
               "I would deserve the bastinado," replied Frank, "did I refuse to render cheerfully this slight service to any lady; and I know of no demand that you could make with which I would be unwilling to comply." 
               "Zenaida!" called out Mrs. Cabell; "come, child, the horses are ready, and here is a riding-dress. Annie's hat will just suit you," she continued, holding it in her hand, straightening the ribbons and feathers, preparatory to placing it on Zenaida's head. 
               "Mrs. Ridgely's beautiful hat is too fine for me," laughed Zenaida, drawing back as she spoke. 
               "That is a mistake," replied Mrs. Cabell; "and I will convince you that it is, if you will allow me to tie it on for you. I can establish the fact upon the incontrovertible evidence of Mr. Churchill, that this is the most becoming thing you ever wore upon your bonnie brown head," she continued as she adjusted the hat, and looked admiringly upon the pretty face beneath it; which blushed at her praises, and the undisguised admiration of Frank. 
               "I am like the jack-daw, shining in borrowed plumage," said Zenaida, as she tossed back the long, black plumes, fastened by a crescent of diamonds, which flashed with rainbow-colors in the sunlight. 
               "If any one but yourself had made that remark, I should have thrown down my gauntlet to challenge him or her to single combat," said Frank, as he assisted here to mount. "There is nothing that is worn that would not derive additional lustre and beauty from being worn by you: no diamonds are brighter than your eyes, no pearls whiter than your teeth, no rubies more glowingly brilliant than your red lips, no alabaster whiter than your fair hand." 
               "Are you not afraid you will make me vain, by indulging in this strain of extravagant compliment?" asked Zenaida. 
               "You are proof against flattery yourself, and you think that it cannot have an injurious effect upon me." 
                
               "What a handsome couple they would make!" said Mrs. Cabell, as she looked after them; "I always thought that sweet child would make a figure in the world; and she will, as the wife of that splendid Churchill. If she had no light of her own, the reflection of his glory would make her radiant." 
                
               "What in the world!" said Mrs. Ridgely, as she looked through her window at the pair, "did possess mother to deck that presumptuous little Morris out in my finery, that she might appear to greater advantage in the eyes of that man, whom I am determined, to captivate? Mother thinks he is pleased with, her; but the idea is superlatively ridiculous. I never could account for the partiality with which she looks upon that insipid, fair-faced child. I never could see anything worthy of admiration in her, and I shall hate her more cordially than I ever did, if she carries off a prize at which I grasp in vain." 
                
               "What a beautiful place!" said Frank, as he gazed upon the broad expanse of the Manor lands, laughing in the glad light of the early summer morn. The dew was not yet exhaled, and a light veil of vapor hung over the more distant landscape, soon to be dissipated by the noontide heat. The birds sang gayly; the branches of the trees nodded in the breeze, which raised the soft tresses of Zenaida's hair, and brought a bright glow into her cheek. 
               Frank's eye soon turned from the landscape to contemplate her, who, to him, was lovelier than all this wealth of inanimate beauty. 
               "Is the love-light in her eye," thought he, "beaming for me? Does that soft blush mantle her cheek, because I am near? Oh! coward heart, why shouldst thou dread to ask the question, the answer to which may make me the proudest among men,-the possessor of the priceless jewel, the pure love of a true woman's heart?" 
               "That," said Zenaida, breaking the spell of silence which had bound them, as they gained the summit of the hill, "is my home," pointing to the Cottage. "It is a modest, quiet place; sacred to my heart as the shrine of Mecca to the disciple of Mahomet; for under those weeping-willows is my father's grave. This hill," she continued, "is my high tower, from which, for years, I have looked forth upon the tender beauty of spring, the luxuriant richness of summer, the mournful glory of autumn, and the chill desolation of winter." 
               Frank spoke not until they reached the gate; then, as they walked to the door, he said,- 
               "Happy would I be, could I hold a place in your heart, Zenaida, which is so rich in love, that it bestows treasures, for which men languish, upon inanimate things!" 
               "And do you not hold a place there?" she said, looking up with her clear, truthful eyes. "Have I not watched your career with deep interest? Have I not rejoiced in your success, and triumphed in your triumph?" 
               "Zenaida!" exclaimed Frank, as he led her to a seat in the porch, "you must listen to the words which my heart has been struggling to speak since I first saw you. It is you who have been the cause of my success. It was you who kindled into a flame the dormant fire of ambition, which slumbered in my soul; you who awakened the noblest impulses of my nature; who, by your confidence in my ability, incited me to the exertions I have made. By your purity and truth, by the excellence of your own noble character, by the practice of precepts which, by many, are inculcated, without example, you reproved me more effectually than untold words could have done. For you I have toiled, and the reward which I placed before myself was your approbation tion. The trophies I have won; the wreath of Fame which crowns my brow, are yours. My heart you have kept since I first knew you. The 'God speed you,' which your dear lips and sweet voice uttered that night, so long ago, has been my talisman; has preserved me and made me what I am. Unworthy as I am of so rich a boon, can you,--will you give your heart, your happiness into my keeping?" 
               "Unhappy that I am!" said Zenaida, in a voice of deep distress. "Why, why has all this hoarded wealth of love been bestowed upon me, who have none but a sister's affection to give in return? Frank! this heart of yours is noble and true, and I would not willingly have wounded it for the world! Your love is a possession of which any might be proud; for which the gifted, the beautiful, the noble, might pine. Why have you lavished it on me, who have no heart to give in return?" 
               While she spoke, Frank had bowed his head upon his hands. Her words were the death-knell of his hopes, and each one dissolved a spell which had bound him for years. 
               "Then," said he, "while I have been toiling to reach the goal, another has been before me and secured the prize, and my labor is in vain. I am like the tree in all the glory of its summer, struck by the scathing lightning; or, like the earth, from which the gentle dews and rain are withheld, parched by drouth, until every green and living thing that adorned it is withered, and, the dry, dead leaves rustle mournfully in the breeze. The summer of my heart is gone, and love's flowers are 'pale for the falsehood of the flattering hours!'" 
               "Frank," said Zenaida, appealingly, "do not speak in this despairing tone. I would rather have suffered many pangs than to have inflicted one on your kind, generous, noble heart. I love you as dearly as though you were my own brother, and it grieves me beyond my powers of utterance to see you thus, and know that I am the unhappy cause." 
               "Reproach not yourself, Zenaida," he said, sadly, looking up, and seeing her tearful eyes fixed with tender pity upon him; "you are blameless. It is I who, in the blindness, the infatuation of my heart, dared to hope, to believe, that such a blessing as your love was to crown my life. You never, by word or deed, have compromised your truth; you never raised me by flattering lures, by deceptive promises, to the height of happiness, that you might watch with pleasure my fall into the deep darkness of life, without the radiance of your smile. I have deceived myself." 
               "Bless you for those words!" replied Zenaida. "They assure me that I have not fallen in your esteem, that I may still call you my friend, my brother." 
               "Call me not by that name now," said Frank; "I cannot bear it; it is so cold, in comparison to the one I hoped to hear from your lips, that it pierces me like cold steel. Zenaida," he continued, rising, "it is useless to prolong this conversation; it is painful to us both. It will be a difficult task for me to drill my proud heart to look upon the happy lot of another, who is blest with your love, without envy, without hatred; but for your dear sake this hard lesson shall be learned. His hand has dashed the cup of happiness from my lips, and placed in its stead one of mingled wormwood and gall. My heart is henceforth like the Dead Sea apples: it may appear fair without, but is full of the bitter ashes, from the funeral pyre of Hope, within. But forgiveness is the noblest revenge, and though I may be miserable myself, I do not wish that you, or any one whom you love, should share this misery. I would not wish it, even if, by so doing, I could call down suffering, equal to my own, upon him who occupies the place I coveted in your heart." 
               He held out his hand, in token of amity, as he ceased speaking. She caught it in both of hers, and her tears fell fast upon it. 
               "Frank, Frank!" she cried, "little did I think, when we started forth so gayly this morning, that the hearts of both of us would now be full of grief; that the brightness of this beautiful day would now be clouded by sorrow! When I hailed the conquering hero so joyfully but yesterday, little did I dream that we met with smiles to part with tears!" 
               "Zenaida," said Frank, pitying her distress, "will you return with me to the Manor?" 
               "I cannot," she replied; "my head aches, and my heart too, and I must be alone; I cannot bear the affectionate scrutiny of Mrs. Cabell, or the cold gaze of Mrs. Ridgely." 
               "Then I must go alone," he replied. "Alone!" he repeated bitterly, "as I must henceforth be through life. I cannot linger here. Give me, ere I go, some slight token, some memorial of our past friendship." 
               She rose, and gathering some bright flowers and evergreens, tied them together with a tress of her own bright hair. The dew was gone from them, but her tears fell upon them like dew. 
               "Frank," she said, placing them in his hand, "the flowers will wither, and they are emblems of your love; but the arborvit is a symbol of our friendship, which is immortal." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLI. 
               WHEN Frank looked back from the top of the hill upon the vine-wreathed cottage, with its bright flowers and trees, he felt as if he were leaving Paradise behind him to go forth into the weary world, which, in a few hours, had been converted from a blooming garden of delight into a sterile, barren waste. 
               Zenaida sat where he had left her, her head drooped upon her hand, her tearful eyes fixed upon his retreating form; and when he paused, and turned round, she waved a last farewell. 
               Frank saw, and returned the signal. 
               "The flutter of that signal," he sighed, "is the last gleam of the snowy pinions of the angel Hope, who has ascended into heaven, leaving me to wander in a world of darkness and despair. Woe is me! The fountain of love, which gleamed goldenly in the sunlight of life, which murmured musically, filling my soul with soft melodies, is dry at its source, and I am desolate. In vain will I look for the golden light; in vain will I listen for the soft melody of the gently-falling waters; in vain will I thirst for a draught from the living stream." 
                
               "What have you done with my Zenaida dove, Mr. Churchill?" inquired Mrs. Cabell. "Did she refuse to obey my command?" 
                
               "Yes," replied Frank; "she complained of headache, and begs that you will excuse her. I too must bid you farewell, as I have some business which demands my immediate attention." 
               "I am truly sorry that all my plans are so completely disarranged. I had hoped that our neighborhood might present some attraction sufficiently powerful to induce you to prolong your stay with us," said Mrs. Cabell. 
               "I am the slave of circumstances," replied Frank, "and must go where duty calls, not remain where inclination prompts. I shall often revert with pleasure to the evening spent beneath your hospitable roof." 
               "What could have transpired between those young folks?" mused the kind old lady, after he was gone. "It cannot be that he has proposed to Zenaida and been refused, for she has too much sense to reject a lover who possesses so many enviable qualities of head and heart." 
                
               "What has befallen Churchill?" was the inquiry of friends and admirers. "He looks pale and care worn; the fire in his eye burns with a subdued light; his head is less proudly erect, and his step has lost its elasticity." 
               These queries brought no satisfactory answer, and, ere long, they ceased; for Frank, though sadly changed, devoted himself to his legal and political avocations with more than his former zeal. Above the ruins of the altar upon which he had sacrificed to woman, was now reared one dedicated to his country. The flame which burned thereon was pure, for the offerings laid upon that shrine were his talents, his time, his life itself. All private ambition, all desire for personal aggrandizement, was merged in a lofty patriotism, in unselfish zeal for the welfare of his country, which was now his love, the object of an absorbing passion. His noble eagle-spirit had been deeply wounded, but not mortally, and, hiding its wound, again soared loftily before the admiring gaze of millions. 
               Many a fair lady sighed for him; many would have given all they possessed in exchange for his love; but no smile had power to charm him, no voice fell softly upon his inattentive ear. He turned coldly, and with a sick heart, from the adulations and caresses of society, scorning to be esteemed the lion of the salons, the pet of the drawing-room. It was only in public that he would deign to unveil the glowing brilliancy of his thoughts, to enlighten the darkness of others with the splendid light of his intellect. 
               After his most successful efforts, he would turn wearily from the plaudits of his friends, which, now that they were no longer the prelude to the praise of her whom he loved, fell coldly and mockingly on his ear. No sweet voice welcomed him as he entered his rooms, which he would not call by the sacred name of "home;" no eye of love beamed more brightly at his coming; no loving hand smoothed back the heavy locks from his weary brow, lulling the aching head to repose with its gentle magnetism. 
               Hour after hour he paced the floor. "This crowd," he said bitterly, "offers up the incense of its flattery upon my shrine to-day, and, if I were gone, to-morrow another idol would be substituted. The preacher was right when he said 'all is vanity.' I exert myself; it is for the passing amusement of this crowd, fickle, as the Romans of old, continually desirous of new things; I come to this, my retirement, and an irresistible force impels me, weary, to this monotonous motion. If I leave no tracks behind upon the sands of time, I will leave them here, upon this floor, as Bonnivard did upon the dungeon floor of Castle Chillon. Ixion, upon his ever-revolving wheel; Sisyphus, rolling his ponderous stone; the Danaides, at their unceasing toil,-must have felt as I do." He paused for a moment, and raised a book from the table. 
               "Jean Paul!" he said; "this used to be one of Zenaida's favorite books. I wonder if the quaint philosopher can minister consolation to my restless spirit?" 
               He opened the book, and his eye rested upon the passage,- 
               "Thou art much too insignificant, thou every-day life, for the inconsolableness of an immortal, thou tattered, misshapen, wholesale existence! Upon this sphere, rounded with the ashes of thousands of years, amid the storms of earth, made up of vapors, it is a disgrace, that the sigh should only be dissipated together with the bosom that gives it birth, and that the tear should not perish except with the eye whence it flows." 
               He continued to read, and some passages seemed as if addressed to him. 
               "We are all like the Adam of the epic, and look upon our first night as the last day, and the setting of the sun as the setting of the world. We grieve for our friends as if there were no better future yonder, and for ourselves as if there were no better here; for all our passions are, by birth, atheists and unbelievers." 
                
               "If the hidden Infinite One, who is encompassed by gleaming abysses without bounds, and who, himself, creates those bounds, were now to reveal himself in his distribution of the suns, the lofty spirits, the little human hearts, and our days, and some tears therein, wouldst thou rise up out of thy dust and say,-Almighty, be other than Thou art?" 
               "God forbid!" ejaculated Frank; "but my heart condemns me. I have been wishing, vain mortal that I am, that I could arrange this distribution differently. I would have appropriated one of these little human hearts which belonged to another; but God has ordered it otherwise, and I must submit to his will. May He forgive the sinful murmuring of my heart, and endow me with fortitude to bear my lot." 
               With these thoughts, these prayers, came peace to the troubled spirit. A calm fell upon him, which was not the calm of despair, but the tranquillity of resignation. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLII. 
               SOME time had elapsed since Miss Maude Wilson had laid siege to the fortified citadel of Paul Anderson's heart, and she had nor yet forced him to capitulate. 
               Paul called her a child, a coquette, a troublesome little gipsy; denied angrily that she had power to influence him; but, at the same time, obeyed her commands, however ridiculous he might deem them. 
                
               He is now sitting in the parlor, waiting the coming of Maude, with whom he has promised to make some visits. 
               "I verily believe that little quintessence of vanity would take twice as much time as necessary to make her toilet, just for the sake of keeping me waiting! I would not tolerate her for a moment, if it were not for the sake of my friendship for Bruce; and if she does not make her appearance soon I will plead some other engagement and leave," muttered Paul; but, hearing the light, quick step of Maude, he smoothed his ruffled brow, and rose to meet her with a smile. 
               "I am sorry I kept you waiting," she cried, almost out of breath; "but my new dress was so pretty, that I could not help admiring it, and I was absorbed in the contemplation of it, thinking how pretty I would look when I put it on, when I heard your ring at the door. Now, isn't it charming?" she inquired, with sparkling eyes. 
               "What a child!" was Paul's mental comment; but, he added aloud, "it is so far excelled by the brilliancy of your eyes, the beauty of your face, that I would not have noticed it, if you had not directed my attention to it." 
               "Oh!" exclaimed Maude, clapping her hands with delight, "what a beautiful compliment. The girls all say that you are a cross old bachelor, always finding fault; but I don't believe it; for if you were, you could not pay such pretty compliments." 
               Paul bit his lip and frowned. 
               "I am much indebted for your good opinion, expressed in terms so flattering," he said, with curling lip. "So I am considered cross, a perfect Ogre, by these youthful demoiselles?" 
               "Yes," replied Maude; "and I am almost tempted to retract what I said in your praise, when I see that unamiable flash of your eye, that contraction of your brow, that scornful curl of your lip. You must be mild as a May morning, gentle as a lamb, or I will not be your champion when the girls abuse you and call you names." 
               "You talk as if I were a child, to be influenced by your capricious whims; to be dictated to according to your pleasure," said Paul, drawing himself up loftily. 
               "I did not call you 'child,'" responded Maude, with a merry laugh; "but if you think me deficient in the respect due to your superior years and wisdom, I will be more reverential in future. Come, my venerable friend, it is time to depart!" 
               She tripped down and stood on the pavement, waiting for his more dignified and deliberate motion. 
               "I did not know," she said, with a roguish smile, "that you were really getting old; but I am convinced of the fact since I saw you come down those steps. Is not the raven blackness of your hair already sprinkled with the frost of age?" 
               Paul was half angry, half amused. 
               "I do not hold you responsible for anything you may choose to say, as I do not consider you an accountable being," he said. 
               "Thank you!" said Maude; "I am under many obligations for this dispensation of grace, this unsolicited grant of indulgence. Here, Mr. Anderson," she continued, "we must turn down this street. I am going to see ma chre amie Beatrice." 
               "Then you must excuse me from further attendance upon your ladyship," replied Paul, halting abruptly; "for I have an insuperable objection to entering the presence of that lady." 
               "You must go!" said Maude, positively. "I will not dismiss you from your attendance upon me, nor will I accept any excuse." 
               "You will be compelled to do so," replied Paul, "or else turn your footsteps in some other direction." 
               "I am going to the Bainbridges," said Maude, firmly. "If you will not go, I will go by myself; but I will tell all the girls what a gallant gentleman you are; how attentive to a lady's requests. Lord Chesterfield and Count d'Orsay might have taken lessons in politeness from you, 
                     dicovering
                     discovering
                   in your code many articles not included in their own. Good morning!" With this ironical remark, Miss Maude walked on, turning neither to the right nor the left. 
               "Confound her perversity!" said Paul. "I would leave her to the full, undisturbed enjoyment of her solitary walk, which, I know, she does not like; but if her report of this conversation is circulated among these scandal-mongering 'girls,' the ball, in rolling, will increase in magnitude, until it will be currently believed that I have been guilty of some flagrant dereliction from the rules of propriety, and I shall find myself tabooed by our society. I would rather be shot at than to follow her; but, of the two evils, I judge this to be the least." 
               "Miss Wilson!" he called, quickening his steps and coming ing up with Maude, who had walked lingeringly, as if expecting him. 
               "Is it possible!" she exclaimed, with feigned surprise, "that you have reconsidered your rash refusal, and have determined to 'humor my capricious whims?' I am surprised that a gentleman of your age and dignity, should be so fickle,-you, who say of woman, that she is changeful 
                      
                        'As the shade, 
                        By the light, quivering aspen made!' 
                     
                   You have registered a vow that you would not go to see Beatrice with me. How will you reconcile it with your tender conscience, if you violate the sanctity of this vow?" 
               "Rail on!" said Paul; "I have made up my mind to patient endurance; have called to my aid all the fortitude, the resignation, of which I am possessed, knowing that I shall need every resource of this nature during this visit." 
               "If that be the case," replied Maude, "there will not be the least sport in trying to irritate you. I have just been trying to ascertain whether you are good-natured, and I vastly prefer that you should get angry; for I like a person to show some spirit-not be meek as Moses!" 
               "You think that without contradiction, there is no argument," said Paul; "that without the piquant spice of angry words, the sauce of conversation would be very insipid?" 
               "Yes," she replied, with suddenly assumed indifference and abstraction. 
               "Mr. Anderson," she exclaimed, after a pause, "who is that gentleman walking before us? I have been looking attentively tentively at him, and he turned round just now, displaying a handsome face, the loveliest whiskers, and oh, such a mustache! I never saw anything half so bewitching, except Beatrice's beautiful brother." 
               "You must be easily bewitched," said Paul, sarcastically, "if that specimen of the tailor's and hairdresser's art has power to charm." 
               "To whom do you apply that disrespectful appellation?" asked Maude. "Mr. Bainbridge, or that handsome young gentleman before us?" 
               "The remark I made is equally applicable to either," replied Paul. 
               Maude saw that her praise of this unknown youth was disagreeable to Paul; so she smothered the indignation which had been aroused by his allusion to Mr. Bainbridge, and continued,- 
               "I do wish I was acquainted with that elegant youth before us. By his distingu air, I know he must be a habitu of our best society; and I know he would be a most delightful partner in the dance, he walks so gracefully. Who can he be? I will give a description of him to Beatrice, and she can tell me who he is, for she knows everybody that is worth knowing." 
               "Do you really wish to know who he is?" inquired Paul. 
               "Of course I do," replied Maude, decidedly. 
               "He is a habitual hanger-on at one of the gambling saloons down town; one of the most notoriously worthless characters in the city." 
               "I don't believe a word of it!" cried Maude. "You have told me this, because I fancied him, and no one of you gentlemen tlemen can bear to hear the praises of another. I believe he is somebody in disguise,-a prince, or a count, or at least the son of one of our most aristocratic families." 
               "You can believe what you please," replied Paul; "it is very certain that if he is anybody, he is so in disguise; for his nobility is not apparent. As a friend, I advise you to beware of him." 
               "La!" exclaimed Maude, in a conciliatory tone, "I was not in earnest. The young man is perfectly odious." 
               "What a shocking want of sincerity there is about this young girl!" mused Paul. "If she 'lays the flattering unction to her soul' that I am fascinated by her charms, she is most woefully mistaken. I would not marry her if she were the only woman in the world, with the wealth of the Indies for her dower. Bruce slandered himself when he said she was like him. She has his perverseness without his sense, his self-will without his wit. Were I to marry her, the 'Taming of the Shrew' should be my text-book; but, from her, and any other like her, may the good Lord deliver me!" 
                
               "So, sis," said Bruce, triumphantly, after many days had passed without the customary visit from Paul, "I was right, after all, and have won my coat, for you have failed to ensnare my friend, with all your arts." 
               "He was not worth the trouble," replied Maude; "I have other beaux, one of whom I would not give for half a dozen like that conceited, horrid old bachelor, Paul Anderson." 
               "Sour grapes!" observed Bruce, laconically. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLIII. 
               "ARTHUR," said Helen, "I have received a letter from Zenaida, in which she informs me that she is engaged to Allan Elliott; that she wishes me to come to Willowbrook, to assist her in making preparations for her marriage, which is to be consummated in the latter part of September. I must go; but how will you get along without me? This will be the first time that I have left you since our marriage." 
               "You trouble yourself too much about me, my dear Helen," replied Arthur. "I will miss you very much, for you have spoiled me sadly; but I will do the best I can without you. So," he continued, with a smile, "I was a true prophet, after all, and Allan is to be our brother! I am half sorry, though I like Allan, that Zenaida should have preferred him to Churchill, who is a glorious fellow; an idol before whom any woman might feel proud to bow herself in homage. His lips must have been anointed with the honey of persuasive eloquence; for he enchants even his opponents. How could any woman, endowed with power to appreciate his worth, his giant intellect, resist the pleading tones of that voice, sweet as the musical peal of silver bells?" 
               "But, Arthur," interposed Helen, "you forget that Allan had won Zenaida's heart before the 'glorious Churchill' had emerged from his chrysalis state; before he had unfolded his splendid rainbow-tinted wings, or given the world assurance of his genius." 
               "True," replied Arthur; "I am a real lawyer. I can plead both for and against, with equal eloquence. I used to advocate Allan's cause so warmly, that if the truth were known, I expect it would be seen that he owes the first favorable impression of himself upon Zenaida's mind to me. You must give my compliments to Mrs. Elliott that is to be, and ask what she has done with all her arguments in favor of old-maidism. These weapons of hers must be rusty from long disuse. I believe I will go to Willowbrook with you. Tell her to furbish them up, and I will give her an opportunity to fight a last battle as the champion of those whose ranks she is about to desert." 
               "If you go merely to amuse yourself at her expense," said Helen, "I can answer for Zenaida that she would prefer that you remain at home." 
               "Well, I will be down to the wedding," replied Arthur, "and will have a chance to gratify my propensity for teasing; will call up a few blushes, by reminding her, in Allan's presence, of her declarations in favor of a life of single-blessedness." 
                
               The wedding-day arrived, and the party, consisting of Mrs. Cabell and Mary, Arthur, Helen, Mrs. Elliott, and all the country friends and neighbors of Zenaida, assembled in the old Grove Church. Mr. Thornley reluctantly performed the ceremony which would bind Zenaida to another, and remove her from her country home and friends. Many were the prayers for her happiness; many the blessings invoked upon her and Allan, who had won his way at once to the kind hearts of these good people. 
               "My child," said good Mr. Thornley, with trembling voice, and tearful eye, "may the blessing of God, whom you love, rest upon you; may the holy dove of peace brood over your dwelling I shall be undone without you. It is as if Mr. Elliott had cut off my right hand; for in all my plans you have rendered me invaluable assistance; and in my hours of despondency you have inspired me with hope, as much by your example as by your precepts. Mr. Elliott," he continued, turning to Allan, "I surrender to you the pet lamb of my fold; one that I have watched over for years with the tenderest solicitude of love; for her dying father, who was most dear to me, commended her to my care. She was the bright flower of my garden, and daily, as I beheld the unfolding of her beautiful goodness, my heart was drawn more closely to her; and now your hand has plucked my blossom, to bear it to another soil. I charge you, as you hope for happiness, to watch over my lamb, to preserve the bloom of my flower unfaded. A good wife is the crowning blessing of God's merciful love, and if this sweet child be not one, I am not skilled to read the heart of the woman and the Christian." 
               "I have vowed, in the sight of God, to love and cherish her," replied Allan, "and will keep my vow, God helping me!" 
               "I believe you," said Mr. Thornley; "and that belief inspires me with the only joy I can feel, at parting with my child, my docile, loving pupil." 
                
               "So," said Bruce as he met Paul, "Allan Elliott has verified your predictions, by carrying off, as his prize in life's lottery, the fair Miss Morris! 
                      
                        'Go, let me weep; there's bliss in tears, 
                        When he who sheds them inly feels, 
                     
                   as I do now. 
                      
                        'Had I never loved sae blindly, 
                        Had I never loved sae kindly, 
                        Had we never met and parted, 
                        I had ne'er been broken hearted.' 
                     
                   And, as it is, I am, afraid that if I was to die, and the coroner held an 'inkwhich' over me, the verdict returned would not be 'died of a broken heart.' I fear there would not be sufficient evidence to justify this conclusion. I was as, much in love with 'la belle' as I ever expect to be with any one, but I wisely refrained from giving full expression to that love, as I knew she would not return it. But my dream is dispelled, and I shall no more 
                      
                        'Look for light in woman's eyes, 
                        Nor sun my heart in woman's smile.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "That being the case," said Paul, "you will lend me your assistance in keeping my Bachelor's Hall, which I am about to establish." 
               "I would offer no objections, if I thought that I, a bachelor, would be visited by reveries as blissful and beautiful as some of Ik Marvel's; but I am skeptical on this point, and feel inclined to sing my old song:- 
                  
                      
                        Bachelor's Hall! what a quare lookin' place it is 
                        Kape me from sich all the days of me life; 
                        Sure, but I think, what a burnin' disgrace it is 
                        Niver at all to be gittin' a wife!'" 
                     
                  
                
               "What, then, do you intend to do?" queried Paul. 
               "I never expect to set the world on fire,  la Phaton," replied Bruce; "neither do I expect to be able ever to exclaim with Horace, 
                     Exegi monumentum perennius re;'
                   nor to strike the stars with my sublime head covered with the poet's laurel." 
               "What then?" said Paul. 
               "I dinna ken," sighed Bruce, "unless I follow the illustrious example of the Emperor Domitian-get a bodkin, and amuse myself killing flies." 
               "A most noble and amusing occupation!" said Paul. "By-the-way, Bruce," he continued, "this wedding of Elliott's is not the only one. Tell me something of this runaway match of your sister's." 
               "I would prefer to keep silent upon a subject so disagreeable," replied Bruce. "I feel mad enough to bite a tenpenny-nail in two, whenever I think that Hamilton Bainbridge, the most detestable fop in the city, has the right to call me brother. But he had better never attempt to exercise this right, for if he does, I will transfer him from this world to the next with such marvellous celerity, that he will never know what hurt him." 
               "Moderate your wrath, my dear fellow," said Paul. "It is really terrible." 
               "'Tis enough to make me angry," replied Bruce, "to think that my sister should have proved such a consummate little simpleton. She met with this Hamilton when she went to see his sisters; and I believe that Beatrice is at the bottom of the whole plot. Maude, foolish child, conceived a great affection for that most superlative young lady, and she made that affecting subservient to her own purposes." 
               "The connection between the families will be complete," remarked Paul, "if you can be persuaded to address the fair and charming Beatrice. You would not then be reduced to the dire necessity of killing flies for pastime, for she would amuse you." 
               "The bare idea is nearly sufficient to drive my tottering reason from her throne," replied Bruce. "A proposition to this effect is an insult to a man who has worshiped the beautiful Morris, who is the moral antipodes of Beatrice Bainbridge. But I am most happy to inform you, that this young lady, in whose fate you take so lively an interest, is soon to leave our city. She has had a beau for some time, an old widower from the South, who has a big cotton plantation and six children. Beatrice has been baiting him with honeyed smiles and sweet words, and finally succeeded in trapping him. She says, 'It will be so delightful a labor of love for me to tend these beauteous cherubs, to take the place of the dear, departed, sainted mother in their young hearts; to watch the gradual development of their minds; to instil into them a love of the beautiful, that they may understand and appreciate me, whom my adored, beloved and loving Antonio has elected to fill the void in his affectionate heart.' She talks thus now; but, I am willing to wager any amount, that she will be the most unendurable of all stepmothers mothers, for she is selfish to her heart's core, and will marry her 'beloved Antonio' for his money alone." 
               "I am truly sorry for you, Bruce, my poor boy!" said Paul. "All your ladye-loves are leaving you. Of how little compassion must their hearts be possessed, that they thus cruelly desert you!" 
               "Come, Saulus," replied Bruce, "enough said. Let's go to the hotel, and have a 'number' one dinner, with plenty of wine, in which we may drown our sorrows, and drinks the health and happiness of Mr. and Mrs. Allan Elliott." 
               "Also of the fair Beatrice and her Antonio," suggested Paul. "Your magnanimity is quite overpowering, Bruce. I should never dream of toasting a triumphant rival." 
               "Your generosity never did compare favorably with mine," replied Bruce, complacently; "and you never will learn to apply philosophy to life, as I do. I will quote for your benefit some lines I scribbled off the other day, while in a contemplative mood, superinduced by the news of Miss Morris's marriage,- 
                      
                        As the parched earth, after the rain, 
                        Doth bloom forth in flowers again, 
                        So man's heart, its freshness blighted 
                        By many vows and troths he's plighted, 
                        Revives again, and vernal blooms 
                        Of new loves brighten o'er the tombs 
                        Of dead affections. 
                        Then plant love's rose amid the mosses, 
                        And waste no time in mourning losses; 
                        This summer-day, that we call life, 
                        Though 'tis with many pleasures rife; 
                         
                        Though all its hours are bright and sunny, 
                        And we have friends and lots of money, 
                        Alas! it hurries to its close, 
                        Ere we are ready for repose. 
                        The twilight dusk comes on apace, 
                        Without e'en saying, "By your grace;" 
                        The shadows deepen fast and thick, 
                        They darken o'er our hearts so quick, 
                        Ah! who will blame us if, while day 
                        And sunshine last, we make our hay? 
                        For lo! the night's so dark and murk, 
                        In it 'tis written "None can work."' 
                     
                   That's the end," he continued,- 
                      
                        "And now, may I be called a sinner, 
                        If I don't go and get my dinner!" 
                     
                  
                
             
             
               CHAPTER XLIV. 
               "ALLAN," said Zenaida, one day, when little Amy was with her in her new home, more playful, more beautiful than ever, "I wish you would paint Amy's portrait for me; I am sure you will be delighted to have so beautiful a model for study, and I would prize a likeness of her very highly, for she is very dear to me." 
               "I will try," replied Allan; but you must not expect a chef-d'uvre, for I have not touched my pencil for months." 
               Zenaida obtained the consent of Amy's mother, and the child herself was overjoyed at the prospect of being with her friend, in that beautiful house, during the sittings. 
                
               Days passed, and the picture grew life-like beneath the touch of Allan's pencil. The fair golden head was wreathed with snow-white flowers, emblematic of her purity, her innocent sweetness; the blue of her dress shone through garlands of white blossoms like the azure sky through fleecy clouds; and her beautiful eyes, full of tender pity, were bent upon the form of a dead bird, which she clasped in her hand. She wanted only the wings to make her the representation of some angel, who had lighted for a brief moment upon earth, who had learned the first lesson of grief and death from the poor, lifeless bird. 
               "It is very beautiful, very touching!" said Zenaida, when it was finished; and the pleased expression of her face, the tear-dimmed eyes with which she looked upon it, thanked Allan, and testified to the merit of his work, more eloquently than words could have done. 
                
               The winter was gone, the spring had come again; but with the reviving life of Nature the rosy health faded from the check of little Amy-the bright, soft light in her clear, blue eyes grew dim. 
               Zenaida watched anxiously by her. "Can it be," said her sad heart, that little Amy can die; she who has been the incarnation of light, and hope, and joy? Can her pulse, which bounds with the full tide of youth, be stilled, while the sluggish stream of age still flows on? Must her breath, fragrant as June roses, be stopped; her eye, azure as the deep-blue sky, glad as the sunny light upon the sparkling waterfall, be hidden from my sight by the heavy turf and the coffin lid? Must 'decay's effacing fingers' sweep the lines on this sweet face, where beauty will linger even after the breath of life is fled? Alas! 
                      
                        'The flower that blooms to-day, 
                        To-morrow dies; 
                        All that we wish to stay- 
                        Tempts, and then flies!'" 
                     
                  
                
               At first Amy knew her, and hailed her coming with smile so faint, so unlike her former beaming one, that the tears, unhidden, filled the eyes of her sorrowful friend. Then the fever-fire burned stronger, and the blood bounded with fearful rapidity through her blue veins, which were plainly visible through the clear skin. In her unconsciousness of things and persons round her, she roamed once more the fields and woods of her country-home, chased the bright butterflies, and called often upon Zenaida, who stood weeping by her, to listen to the sweet little bird, to gather some bright flower which grew above her reach, to watch the little silver-fish, as they gleamed, like a flash of light, through the clear water. 
               The fever left her, and, with returning consciousness, she begged her mother to take her to Maplehurst. "It will be so pretty now!" she said; and her languid eye grew brighter at the thought of all its beauties. 
               "I will get well, mother, if I can go there, and run about to gather flowers and hunt birds' nests, as I used to do; and Cousin 'Naida says she will come too." 
               Her mother, thinking that she would soon be well, yielded to her entreaties; and the heart of the sweet child was gladdened again by the sight of her home. For some days after they reached Maplehurst, Amy was better; but the brightness was only the transient gleam of the joy which illumined her heart at the sight of the fresh, green fields, and all the familiar scenes she had treasured so fondly in her childish, affectionate breast. 
               "Come, Amy," said her mother, "you are in the country now, you must cheer up and get well." 
               "I will try, mamma," she replied. "You were so good to bring me here, and by the time I am well, Cousin 'Naida will come to the Cottage. I will be so glad!" she said, with a bright smile. 
               But the arrow of the relentless Archer had pierced the heart of little Amy; this hope-inspiring flash of returning light died out, and to the experienced eye it was but too evident that this sweet human flower would soon cease to exhale its rich perfume upon the air of earth; that pure and spotless, without a soiling taint of sin, or corroding grief, it would be placed by the hand of the death-angel among the immortal flowers, that bloom upon the banks of the river of eternal life. 
               "Mamma," she said one day, "put my bed by the window where I can see the blue sky, and the pretty clouds, and the trees. I want you to send to the Cottage," she continued, "to get me some flowers; there are so many in the garden there. I want some roses and white lilies. Such sweet ones grow on the grave in the corner." 
               "I will send, Amy," replied her mother; "but the flowers that bloom at Willowbrook are not prettier than those that grow in other places." 
               When they were brought and placed upon her bed, Amy greeted them as if they had been old friends, who could return her affection. She kissed them fondly; for with that old garden and its floral inhabitants were connected some of the brightest and most pleasant recollections of her innocent and happy life. As she raised the flowers, the bright dew-drops fell upon her like tears. She smiled faintly, and said, "They are crying because Amy is sick." She clasped them tightly, and fell asleep thus, her thin, little hands as pale as the lilies. 
               "Alice," said Mrs. Bainbridge, "I wish you would see how Amy is. I left her asleep some time ago; but she must be awake now. Take these drops, and give her some." 
               Alice obeyed, and going to the couch of the little sleeper, found her lying as her mother left her, with the flowers in her hands, her eyes closed, and a smile of sweet content upon her half-open, rosy mouth, from which not even death had yet power to steal the color, which had glowed so warmly there. 
               "How still she is!" said Alice, with hushed breath. "Amy," she called softly; but the eyes upon, which the seal had been set, opened not. She laid her hand upon that of the beautiful sleeper, but drew back with blanched cheek, appalled and shuddering, as life ever doth, when brought in contact with unexpected death. The blood, which had bounded so joyously, was at rest in the veins of little Amy; the little hand held closely in death the flowers in which her sweet life had delighted; the snowy lids, like white clouds, shut out forever the sparkling heaven of her blue eyes; the lips, from which had gushed a tide of melody, welled from the depths of her glad heart, were mute; and to the voice of love, to which she had ever been keenly sensitive, the little ear was deaf. 
               "Amy, Amy!" sobbed Alice, as she knelt and kissed passionately the cold, white brow, sweet mouth, and still hands, "light of my life, joy of my heart, music of my soul, canst thou be dead-deaf to the voice of my agony? Woe, woe, for the darkness that has fallen upon my soul! Would to God I could have died for thee, my beautiful, my beloved! for thy beauty was all too glorious for the grave, and this life has not many like thee, to come like a smile of God to illumine the midnight blackness of its woe! O Death! thou dost come upon thy foray through our earth-gardens, and our brightest treasures are culled for an offering to thy King. My sister, my sister! I cannot yield thee up!" 
               Was the worldly pride, the vain-glory of that mother rebuked, as she gazed upon this fair altar, upon which the fire of life had been extinguished; as she looked upon this exquisitely moulded form, which she had thought to deck in all the trappings of wealth; upon this heavenly face, which she had fondly hoped would beam with transcendent glory upon the world, awakening the admiration of all who beheld her? How vain, how frivolous seemed now her hopes, her ambition! How awful the sacrifice she would have made in offering up this pure heart, this young life, this guileless, immortal soul upon the altar of Mammon, the god of her world! Stricken with grief and awe, she gazed upon her child, who lay like a fair statue of sleep garlanded with roses; but it was a sleep from which no cry of anguish, no voice of love could awaken her, until the final day. 
               Oh, pure soul! pure and holy as thou ever wast in life! the sod of earth may hide thy beloved form from our longing eyes; but the voice we loved is gone, from the choirs of earth, to mingle its clear notes with those of angel-minstrels around the great white Throne; the bright-winged bird, which, for a brief season, made glad the groves here, is now flitting, a spotless dove, among the golden-fruited trees of the heavenly plains; and no death, no pain, no anguish, no sin, no undying remorse can ever disturb the serene airs of that holy place with the rustling of their dusk pinions. A ring of love is gone from the treasures of our hearts; but it adds one more link to the chain that binds us to the skies. 
               The holy Christ has said, "Suffer little children to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven;" and He held thy hand, timid, shrinking one, as thou didst pass through the dark valley, and His voice of tender love whispered reassuringly to thy heart, appalled by the deep darkness, "Fear not, for my hand guides thee!" 
               In the lone, quiet churchyard, in the protecting shadow of the house of God, where the willows hung their branches, from which the tears of night rained down upon the little grave, was Amy cradled softly for her long sleep. Hold her gently in thy bosom, nursing mother Earth! Let no rude hand disturb her deep repose; and when thy Lord doth come, and thou dost shine in all the glory of thy renovated beauty, more radiant than in the first dawn of thy creation, this, thy lovely child, shall awake from her slumbers, to glad thy heart, with her sweet smile! 
               As the clods fell with a dull, dead sound upon the coffin-lid, the clouds gathered, as if the angels were about to weep that Death, the destroyer, should have power over that sweet child, the holy purity and guileless innocence of whom claimed kindred with their own celestial natures; but as the thought came to them that by death she would be ushered in among their own bright throng, the clouds parted, and the light, which fell goldenly upon the new-made grave, was the reflection of the smile with which they welcomed the glorified spirit. A gush of liquid melody fell on the charmed ear. Was it the far-off notes of some wild-bird, or the first strains awakened by the fingers of the new angel, from the sounding-strings of her harp of gold? 
               Peace to thee, sweet Amy! Thou art hid from our waking eyes; but in dreams of the night thou wilt soar above us, thy face radiant with the glory of the invisible; thou wilt stoop to whisper words of love and hope to our hearts, world-weary without thee. When the soft airs of spring awaken from sleep the dewy eyes of the flowers above thy grave, when the sweet notes of the Sabbath-hymn float through the open-windows of the church above thy lowly bed, when the voices of those who come to gaze upon thy resting-place are low, and broken with emotion, wilt thou not hover near that they may tell thee thou art not forgotten; that in the memories of loving, heart-broken ones thy sweet looks, thy gentle smiles and words of love are treasured with more than a miser's fondness for his gold? 
               Could love, could gold or gems have paid thy ransom, Amy! thou wouldst not have slumbered so coldly pale in this sheltered nook of the old churchyard. Friends would have detained thee, little one, to bless their eyes with thy beauty, to cheer their hearts with thy glad smiles and the sunny ripple of thy music-laughter, until, perchance, the purity of thy soul had been sullied by sin's polluting breath, or thy heart broken by a weight of care and sorrow too heavy to be borne; thy golden head bowed and covered with the ashes of grief. Now, no earth-cloud shall ever dim thy glory, no storm of passion ever disturb the blissful heavenly calm of thy soul, forever blest. Should we not say, "The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord"? 
               
                   
                     This life is like the rainbow bright- 
                     Brief glory on a clouded sky; 
                     Its brilliance being born of light, 
                     When light departs, 'tis left to die.  
                     But there's a bow shines all the while, 
                     And spans the skies of Paradise, 
                     A tear-arch painted by the smile 
                     Of Him who wipes Earth's weeping eyes. 
                  
                   
                     The griefs of earth the spent cloud are, 
                     Dark, sullen back-ground, upon which, 
                     In bold relief, the arch most fair 
                     Stands out in hues divinely rich. 
                     There, as we, gaze upon its glow, 
                     The sacred promise is renewed,- 
                     "Grief shall no more our souls o'erflow, 
                     But be eternally subdued." 
                  
                   
                     This life is like the dew-drop small, 
                     That sparkles in some rosy bower; 
                     The air but stirs-we see it fall, 
                     Lost in the morn's first blushing hour! 
                     Not lost-the sun exhales its breath, 
                     Before the twilight hush of even; 
                     So the pure soul, set free by death, 
                     Soars up on angel-wings to heaven. 
                  
                  
                   
                     This life is like the silver sound 
                     Of music on a moonlit wave, 
                     Whose echoes softly float around, 
                     And die in some sequestered cave. 
                     But as those sounds, along the shore, 
                     Some poet-soul may haunt forever, 
                     So this sweet life, its music o'er, 
                     Though brief, may be forgotten never. 
                  
                   
                     This life is like the sunset's glow, 
                     That burns along the western sky, 
                     Whose gold and crimson splendors show 
                     A glory, dazzling to the eye: 
                     It fades-it dies, and dusky Night 
                     Hangs out her pall with trembling sigh, 
                     While tears, wept for the dying light, 
                     Like dew-drops gem each floweret's eye. 
                  
                   
                     As from the gloom, o'er all the earth, 
                     The stars gaze down with myriad eyes, 
                     Bright, golden orbs, which by their birth, 
                     Illume the bowers of Paradise, 
                     So from stern, Death's deep, sombre gloom, 
                     The immortal soul, divinely pure- 
                     Glows with imperishable bloom, 
                     Shines with a light that shall endure,- 
                  
                   
                     When the old earth, from shore to shore, 
                     Shakes at the Archangel's trumpet-call, 
                     When he proclaims-"Time is no more," 
                     And wakes the dead, both great and small; 
                     When the sick Sun, as light doth fail, 
                     Shall leave his radiant throne on high; 
                     When moon and stars in death grow pale, 
                     And fade forever from the sky. 
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XLV. 
               "BRUCE," said Paul, one day, when the summer sun shone with fervid heat, "this city is intolerable. Look at these long streets, in which no living thing can move with comfort beneath the scorching rays of this burning sun. Suppose we change our quarters?" 
               "Oh!" sighed Bruce, "'for a lodge in some vast wilderness, some boundless continuity of shade!' But where shall we go? Not to the Springs; for there we will still be within the confines of fashion's domains; will still be required to dress, dance, flirt; and all this will, of course, entail upon us greater exertion than is at present compatible with my feelings. Where shall we seek a refuge from the oppression of this inexorable tyrant?" 
               "I agree with you," replied Paul; "we must seek the shade, literally and figuratively. Suppose we get a tent, take a supply of provisions, and a servant, and camp out for some time in some forest far from the haunts of men, where, like Tityrus, we may recline under the leafy canopy of the spreading beech." 
               "Teaching the woods to resound with the name of your Amaryllis?" inquired Bruce. 
               "No," said Paul. 
               "I like the plan," said Bruce; "I will love to 'hunt my quarry in the wild,' like the 'lovely, pale O'Connor's child,' I will go." 
                
               "Going to Saratoga, Newport, Cape May, or the White Hills?" inquired a young friend, whom Bruce met. 
               "To none of them," replied Bruce. "I would rather be in Bedlam. Anderson and I are going on an Exploring Expedition." 
               "In what direction?" 
               "It matters not," replied Bruce; "we are going to look for a cool place, though we will not venture to try the inhospitable regions of the frozen North." 
               "Many of the fair ladies at the Springs will no doubt regret that the light of two luminaries, so brilliant as you and Paul, should be hidden under a bushel." 
               "Can't help it," said Bruce. 
                
               "This is the place for us, Paul!" exclaimed Bruce, as they came to a secluded, quiet spot, after several days' travel. 
               A high hill sloped gently down to a narrow, level plain, through which ran a broad stream, in which the overhanging trees dipped their long branches; a soft breeze stirred them with gentle motion, waving the pendulous boughs gracefully, as if inviting the strangers to repose beneath their shade; the grass was freshly green, and near the edge, in the water, Bruce found some faint, sweet-scented water-lilies. The gnarled roots of several trees formed pleasant seats, and, where they extended out into the stream, the water flowed through them with a gurgling sound, which fell pleasantly upon the ear like the drowsy hum of bees. 
               "We'll pitch our tent in this camp-ground for a few days," said Bruce. "This is the very place of all others for you, Paul. A true disciple of Izaak Walton, you can sit here and indulge your passion for angling to satiety. If you have no use for the fish after you catch them, you can throw them back into the water. I will stroll around to see if I can find some bower, or cave canopied by the tasteful hand of Nature, where I may wile away some dreamy hours." 
               "Were you successful in your search?" inquired Paul, when Bruce returned. 
               "Yes," he replied; "I have found a cave- 
                      
                        'All overgrown with trailing, odorous plants, 
                        Which curtain out the day; with leaves and flowers, 
                        And paved with veined-emerald; and a fountain 
                        Leaps in the midst; with an awakening sound. 
                        From its curved roof the mountain's frozen tears, 
                        Like snow, or silver, or long diamond spires, 
                        Hang downward, raining forth a doubtful light: 
                        And there is heard the ever-moving air, 
                        Whispering without from tree to tree; and birds, 
                        And bees; and all around are mossy seats, 
                        And the rough walls are clothed with long, soft grass.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "A most wonderful place, verily," said Paul; "it must be the haunt of Pan, Silvanus, and the wood nymphs. Keep a look-out, Bruce, and you will catch them at their rites or revels." 
               I must be careful," replied Bruce, "how I profane with my unhallowed eye their sacred rites, or I may share the fate of Pentheus. I will beware of the Mnads of this 'dun Cadmean forest.' I am glad that I did not leave all my books behind. There is nothing here to disturb us, but the whistling of birds, or the occasional leap of a silver-trout trout. I can lie here and read Tasso, fancying myself in the enchanted forest, where the myrtle, struck by Tancred's sword, oozed forth blood and wailed in the voice of the dying Clorinda, where, at the blow of Rinaldo's, the tree divided, and forth from it leaped the fair Armida. By Jupiter! I wish this pretty story were not all a myth; for, if such wonders were real, I would strike a blow upon yon tall, graceful tree, hoping that the semblance of my enchantress, the loved and lost Zenaida, might issue therefrom." 
               "You say there is naught here to disturb us," said Paul, "but birds and fishes. You forget the musical hum of the mosquito." 
               "A mere trifle," replied Bruce; "we can swing our hammocks from these trees, and build fires beneath us, as travelers do in South America, if they prove troublesome." 
               "More pleasant in theory than it will be in practice," said Paul. "Ay, now I am in Arden! the more fool I: when I was at home I was in a better place; but travelers must be content." 
               "This place will improve upon acquaintance," observed Bruce. "I believe if warm weather would last, I would be willing to forsake the haunts of civilization, the crowded mart, the jostling throng of busy money-makers, and live here in the wild-wood." With this he 
                     sung
                     sang
                  ,- 
                      
                        "'Under the greenwood tree, 
                        Who loves to lie with me, 
                        And tune his merry note 
                        Unto the sweet bird's throat; 
                        Come hither, come hither, come hither, 
                        Here shall he see no enemy, 
                        Save winter and rough weather.' 
                     
                  
                   Here we will dwell, like Orlando in Arden, or like Robin Hood in the green glades of Sherwood." 
               "Minus your Rosalind, and your maid Marian," said Paul. 
               "Saulus Paulus!" sighed Bruce, "you are like the ill-boding crow from the hollow oak, forever croaking, and reminding me of some deficiency." 
                
               In this pleasant place they located; and here might Paul be seen lounging on the bank, his angling-rod stuck in the sod to save him the trouble of holding it. Bruce reclined on the grass, reading sometimes; sometimes listening to the soft sounds that disturbed the quiet solitude; then again he would sit by Paul, throwing pebbles into the stream, that he might watch the gradually widening circles, or tossing out sticks that he might send his dog to recover them. 
               "Bruce," said Paul, "are you not ashamed of being amused with that child's sport?" 
               "I am following a royal example," replied Bruce; "this child's sport amused his Majesty Charles II." 
               "Well," said Paul, "it scares all the fish, if it amuses you." 
               "I am not without other resources," replied Bruce, drawing forth his volume of poetry, and seeking again his recumbent position. 
               He read awhile, then dreamily followed with his eyes the bright birds, as they flitted among the branches overhead, or gazed at the patches of blue sky and the floating clouds, which were visible through the network of leaves. His reverie had deepened until sleep was stealing over his senses, when he was roused by the voice of Paul. 
                
               "Bruce," said he, "I wish you would go and look at my hook; I believe there is a fish biting; but I feel so deliciously lazy, that not even the expectation of catching a nice fish, can tempt me to get up." 
               "Then," replied Bruce, "the fish may run away with your pole, as the cat did with the pudding-bag string. I thought you were an amateur angler; but I find that you are too indolent even for this most indolent of all amusements." 
               They subsided again into quiet, but at length Bruce raised himself, exclaiming- 
               "It is growing late, and, I want my supper. I wonder where Pluto is? If he is in hearing distance I will rouse him," and he blew a shrill blast upon a silver whistle, which was the signal for Pluto to make his appearance. 
               "Here I is, Mass' Bruce," said Pluto. "I would comed before, but I is bin specially entertained." 
               "What in the world have you found to amuse you in this wild place?" asked Bruce. 
               "I is bin circumambulatin' round here, Mass' Bruce," replied Pluto, "an' I diskivered an ole campin'-ground, where they used to have woods meetin's, an' seein' it minded me o' some I used to go to afore I went to town to live." 
               "Tell us some of your adventures, Pluto," said Bruce. 
               "Well," replied Pluto, "you know, Mass' Bruce, that ole massa bought me from de backwoods, an' it was afore I was his carriage-driver that I used to go to these meetin's. The cullerd folks used to have 'em well as the white ones; an' all the people, fur miles an' miles, used to go to 'em. An' I tell you, they was sich crowds, as you, wid yer town-raisin', never seed the like on." 
                
               "Were there many pretty girls, Pluto?" said Bruce, inquiringly. 
               "Lots on 'em," replied Pluto, with a grin. "Gals like you never seed in town; but these here regular backwoods critters as is bin fed on corn-bread an' hominy, an' pork an' beans. Tell you, Mass' Bruce, they could ride the wildest hosses you ever seed, withouten saddle or bridle." 
               "Decidedly novel and interesting; specimens of the genus fmina," said Bruce, parenthetically; "should like to see some of them. What else could they do, Pluto?" 
               
                  
                      
                        "'They could knit, an' they could sow, 
                        They could reap, an' they could mow.' 
                     
                   as de ole song says," replied Pluto. 
               "One of these ladies would be a profitable investment in the line matrimonial. She would be useful as well as ornamental, and that is a great desideratum," observed Bruce. "But go on, Pluto, and tell me what they used to do at these meetings." 
               "In de fust place, they preached," said Pluto. 
               "Mirabile dictu!," ejaculated Bruce. 
               "Then," continued Pluto, "they prayed and sing'd. One night I was 'tendin' a cullerd meetin' an' de niggers cried an' hollered, an' then one preacher talked, an' another say 'amen,' an' then they all groaned, as if they had bin doin' somethink wicked, an' my mammy got happy, an' she thought she would shout, but she had on a new coat an' a fine bonnit, an' she wur 'fraid she'd spile 'em. At last she couldn't hold out no longer, an' she pulled off her bonnit an' shawl, an' rolled up her sleeves, an' then she took her new coat an' tucked it up clean round her waist, an' pinned it tight; then she pitched in, an' she enjyed hersef mightily. When she got through, says I, 'mammy,' says I, 'fur what did you tuck up your coat so?' 'Is you a born fool,' said mammy, 'to think I was gwine to spile my Sunday coat?'" 
               "I never knew what made you so shrewd, Pluto," said Bruce; "it must have been because your mammy was so smart." 
               "Jist so, Mass' Bruce," replied Pluto. "But I is jist thought of somethink as I seed once at one o' these meetin's, an' I'll tell you an' Mass' Paul, ef I can stop laughin'. One day I was standin' out on the edge of the meetin' an' I seed the most 'markable ole individeral I ever did see in all my born days. Instid o' prayin' as he oughter a bin doin' he was tradin' hosses, an' he got one at last, but he was 'fraid to ride him, 'cause he didn't know how. Last he comes to me, an' says, 'Uncle, help me to git on this 'ere hoss.' 'Yes, sir,' says I, 'in course.' Then I helps him up, an' he says, 'Uncle, I'm 'feard I'll fall off.' 'No danger, sir,' says I, 'eff you only hold tight.' With that he was kind o' pacified, an' off he rides a little piece, a stickin' his feet clean through the stirrups, an' holdin' tight by the hoss's mane, sort o' standin' up ridin.' 'Rectly he comes back, awful skeart, an' says he, 'Uncle, I'll fall off; here, take this 'ere piece of rope, an' tie my feet together.' 'What!' says I, mighty 'stonished; 'tie 'em onderneath?' 'Yes,' said he. 'You blessid ole simpleton,' thinks I to myself; but I says nothin', thinkin' I'd like might' well to see the 'clusion of that ride. So I tied his feet tight, so they couldn't come ontied; then, says I, pattin' the hoss, 'go it boots!' and the critter started off an' went a kitin' down a lane, I runnin' to see the fun. lHe screetcht orful, an' I larfed 'till I liked to died. Arter awhile, he couldn't stop no other way, so he ketched hold on the top rail of the fence to stop the boss, an' the critter kept a runnin', an' nearly pulled the feet off the ole feller afore I could git to him. 'Twas better than airy circus I ever seed, Mass' Bruce," said Pluto, laughing, until the tears stood in his eyes. 
               "That would have been as well worth seeing as the famous ride of John Gilpin," said Bruce. "I wish we could find some such persons here now, as this one. I wonder if there are any such in this terra incognita." 
               "If you is speakin' to me, Mass' Bruce," observed Pluto, "I doesn't know any think about that dictionary talk. When I speak to you, I 'spress myself so as you kin understan', an' I thinks you might 'ford to do the same." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLVI. 
               THE next morning Bruce awoke earlier than usual, and climbed to the nearest hill-top to enjoy the sunrise and the awakening of Nature. 
               It was the Sabbath, and, as he sat, his soul was penetrated by the sweet and holy influences of the scene before him. 
               "I," soliloquized Bruce, "with my indolent habits, lose a great deal. This sunrise, on this quiet Sabbath morning, is gloriously beautiful. What a splendid picture could I make, were I an artist, from the scene now before me. Those distant tant hill-tops, just touched with the glory of the sun's first beams; the silver cloud of vapor, exhaled from this river, rising slowly, undulating like waves of light foam, as the soft breeze stirs it; this valley below, still in shadow; and then the clouds, white, and tinged with a rosy glow, like the tips of the fingers of Aurora, or Mrs. Allan Elliott, or like pearly shells with veins of crimson fire, and soft, rose-colored lining. Those high hill-tops glow with light, while the valley lies darkling, as the lofty souls of some mortals are flooded with radiance, while others are lost in the mists of ignorance and superstition. But I am growing positively serious, and that would be a new phase in the character of Bruce Wilson." 
                
               After lingering for some days longer here, Paul and Bruce took up their line of march, wandering according to the direction of their own fancies. 
               "We are approaching civilization," said Bruce, one evening. "This country is beautiful and fertile, through which we are now passing. Look there, Paul, at that pretty church, half-hidden among the trees; I am going into that yard. Stop, Pluto." 
               He opened the little gate, and was soon attracted by the shady beauty of the corner devoted to the dead. 
               "Perhaps the inscriptions on these tombstones may enlighten us as to our present locality," said Bruce. "This little grave, with its beautiful monument-let me see whose it is;" he stooped and read,- 
                     "AMY BAINBRIDGE."
                  
                
               "Why, Paul!" he cried, "we are in the vicinity of the Bainbridge's country residence, and that is not far from Willowbrook, the former home of Mrs. Allan Elliott. Auspicious fates have guided our footsteps; I am no longer weary, and I will not rest until my eyes have looked upon the spot where my enchantress used to live." 
               They proceeded along the grassy lane which had so often been trodden by the straying footsteps of Zenaida and Amy; and as they turned into the path by the burn-side, a gentleman and lady were seen approaching from the opposite direction. 
               "As I live!" exclaimed Bruce, "that is Allan and his wife." 
               He quickened his pace, and soon reached them. 
               "Bruce Wilson and Paul Anderson!" cried Allan, and Zenaida welcomed her old friends with smiles. "I never was more astonished in my life," continued Allan. "What breeze has blown you hither? I am delighted to see you both!" 
               "Not more than I am to see you and Mrs. Elliott," replied Bruce. 
               "I heard," remarked Zenaida, "that you were absent from the city; but I did not know that you were traveling in this direction." 
               "You must go home with us," said Allan. "You will find yourselves among quite a party of city friends. Arthur and Helen are here; the Bainbridges at Maplehurst, and my mother is also with us. Then, Bruce, there is a very fascinating young lady, Miss Mary Worthington, at Cabell Manor." 
               "You hold out so many inducements for us to remain, that you will not be able to get rid of us even when weary of our society," replied Bruce. "But you must recommend this young lady to Paul; for I have forsworn love with all its blissful pain." 
               "That is a most astonishing declaration!" laughed Allan; "one that I never expected to hear from your lips, Bruce." 
               "One that I never expected to utter," replied Bruce; "but Time, the magician, plays strange and fantastic tricks with the sentiments of the wisest of us." 
               "Where have you been, Bruce?" inquired Allan; "you appear to be equipped for a long journey." 
               "Paul and I have been rusticating," replied Bruce. "Weary of the monotonous pleasures, the tiresome conventionalities of fashionable life, we have, in primitive style, been living in the woods." 
               "Yonder are Helen and Arthur, Mrs. Cabell and Mary," said Zenaida. "They are coming to the Cottage. Arthur will be joyfully surprised at seeing you," she continued, turning to Bruce. 
               The parties met; and after many friendly greetings, many exclamations of surprise, entered the Cottage, where all were soon engaged in lively conversation. Bruce, as usual, was the life of the company. Mrs. Cabell was particularly pleased with his lively sallies,-his amusing anecdotes; and Bruce exerted his utmost powers to render himself agreeable to her, whom he pronounced "the most delightful old lady he ever beheld." 
               "Mrs. Ridgely's mother!" he said. "I think that lady might have followed the example of this, her illustrious predecessor, without detriment to her charms." 
                
               Paul was commended to Mary by Allan; and Arthur said;- 
               "Cousin May, I will make you a handsome wedding-present, a service of silver, if you will convert Paul Anderson from the errors of his old bachelor creed. He pretends to despise the 'artifices' of womankind; but you are not a person to be contemned, when you arrive at any fixed determination." 
               "I will use all my eloquence," replied Mary, laughingly, as she glanced at Paul; "and I will remember your promise, Cousin Arthur." 
                
               Paul was at once interested by her vivacity, her fine sense, her gay, laughing, good humor, and listened, with interest greater than he had before felt or manifested, to her remarks. 
               "Why, Saulus," exclaimed Bruce, when they were alone, "I verily believe you are pleased with that Miss Mary! Now, my dear Othello, there is here no rival in the field; you can relate to her your adventures, the rough treatment you have experienced at the hands of other ladies, and this Desdemona may be induced to love you for the trials you have passed through; and you can love her, that she does 'pity them!' She is not a 'silly woman,' that is evident; she is not a 'learned one' I presume; she is not 'extravagantly fashionable,' that's palpable; she is not 'austerely religious,' I should imagine; ergo, from these premises, I deduce the conclusion, that she is the soul which came into the world (according to a popular fallacy) to be the companion of the hitherto desolate soul of Paulus Anderson!" 
                
               "An' this lady, upon acquaintance, should please me," said Paul, "think you I would care for a satire or an epigram?" 
               "Bravo, Benedick!" exclaimed Bruce; "that is one important step gained, and I shall yet, contrary to my former anticipations, live to salute thee as 'Benedick, the married man!'" 
               "Where is Mrs. Ridgely?" inquired Paul. 
               "At Newport, so the Duchess informed me," replied Bruce. 
                
               Bruce and Paul yielded to the solicitations of Allan and Arthur, which were strongly seconded by their own inclinations, and remained some days with them. 
               Parties were assembled in honor of the guests-at the Manor, at the Cottage, and in the beautiful groves adjacent. On all these occasions, Paul was Mary's attendant; and, as day by day, his heart was thawed beneath the humanizing influence of her sunny smiles, he laid aside the indifference of manner, the bitterness of speech, which, at first assumed had, by long indulgence, become habitual. 
               Arthur saw the change, and congratulated Mary upon her success. 
               "You are working wonders, Cousin May," he said. "It is evidently your mission to 'beautify and beatify,' the soul of this Paul. His heart is not worthless. It is a gem that will require a great deal of polishing, before its brilliancy and beauty become apparent; but it will finally reward your labor." 
               Mary blushed, and laughed. 
                
               "You slander him, Cousin Arthur!" said she. "I have not found this root of bitterness in his heart of which you told me; but if I do, I will pluck it up." 
                
               "I wish the Dowager would adopt me, and leave me this beautiful Manor for my future habitation," said Bruce, after he had explored the farm through its whole extent. "I shall be quite lonely after I have been called upon to act in the capacity of groomsman for my friend Paul. I believe I will turn traveler, like Baron Humboldt, Marco Paul, Bayard Taylor, et ceteri omnnes. A life of wild adventure will just suit me. My resolution is taken." 
               As he mused, he walked toward the Cottage, passing through the garden, where Uncle Harry was leisurely digging. 
               "That," observed Bruce, "is a very peculiar-looking old man. His head so white, his face so black, that he looks exactly like a black-faced, white sheep! Uncle," he said, accosting Harry, in a pleasant voice, "you seem to be very busy?" 
               Harry raised himself deliberately, planted his hoe firmly on the ground, crossed his hands, and leaning upon the handle, said, with a long-drawn sigh,- 
               "Yes, master, I is mighty busy, bless the Lord!" 
               "You never get through with your work, do you, Uncle?" continued Bruce. 
               "No, master," replied Harry, with as near an approach to a smile as he ever allowed to be exhibited on his face; "I never does. I love work so dearly, that I always keep some by me, bless the Lord!" 
                
               "That is a novel and ingenious apology for laziness;" said Bruce, as he walked on, "that I, with all my inventive faculties at task, have never thought of." 
                
               Time passed, and Paul and Mary were living happily at the Manor much to the delight of good Mrs. Cabell, who was deeply interested in all that concerned her Mary, who held a daughter's place in her warm, motherly heart. 
               Annie, after several seasons' dissipation at various watering-places, became the Hon. Mrs. Bentham. She was far away, and her hand ministered not to her mother in her declining years. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XLVII. 
               THE life-stream of Allan and Zenaida flowed calmly on, sometimes in sunshine, sometimes in shadow. Allan, the kind, the generous, from the stores of his wealth, showered blessings upon those less favored. The destitute, the afflicted, never appealed in vain to him; and in his good deeds he ever found his fair wife ready to aid. Their charity was unostentatious. No trumpet was blown before them when they went to give alms; but quietly and noiselessly as the gentle dews of Heaven, fell their gifts, their kindly sympathy upon the desolate, barren waste of hearts, tried in affliction; and around their pathway bloomed the flowers of love, gratitude, joy and peace, which had been called into life by them. 
                
               Many a young man, discouraged at the outset by the ruggedness of his life-path, had cause to bless the kindly ministering hand of Allan Elliott, which raised him from his despondency, placing him upon a path made more smooth, more easy, by his exertions. As the steward of the Lord, he dispensed good gifts, and the talent committed to his keeping was not hidden in a napkin, or buried in the earth. 
               And Zenaida? The centre of a circle around whom the learned, the good, the noble revolve, willing and delighted satellites, the lustre with which she shines is not borrowed from artificial sources. It is the clear light which beams from her pure, bright spirit, as rays from the sun. She seeks not to allure by a display of costly jewels and rich attire; but is adorned with "good works." Her religion is not of the lips, but from the heart, and appeals forcibly to all who come within the sphere of her gentle influence. 
                
               It is Christmas night, and the parlors of the "Fairy Bower" glow with light, and echo with the sound of happy, musical voices. The rooms, under the superintendence of Zenaida, have been decorated in good old English fashion, wreathed with evergreens and bunches of mistletoe, with its beautiful clusters of shining, pearly berries. Bright flowers, from the conservatory, arranged by her tasteful fingers, gladden the rooms with almost summer radiance, as in the winter of her life the sweet blooms of love will brighten the chambers of her heart. 
               For whom had all this been done? Who was to be the honored guest? None other than our friend Frank, who, though he could not occupy the lover's or husband's place, had not refused to be chief among Zenaida's chosen friends. In the years that had passed, he had learned to look upon the happiness of Allan without envy, though his heart still remained true to his first, his only love. 
               The oldest child of Allan and Zenaida was named for Allan's father, and as he was called Frank, Churchill claimed him for his namesake, and could not sufficiently admire his infant beauty and intelligence. This sweet child soon became the chief pet of Frank, who would sit and gaze dreamily into his spiritual eyes, so like Zenaida's; but his reveries, though sometimes tinged with sadness, had lost all bitterness. 
               They were now looking for his coming, to welcome which Zenaida had collected a party of friends with whose faces we are strangely familiar. Arthur and his Helen, Ashley and the stately Florida, Allan and his mother, are grouped around the cheerful hearth. 
               "What can detain Frank?" said Allan, who, at every footstep, every rustle of the night-wind, started, fancying he heard his friend. 
               "Ah, there he is at last!" he exclaimed, as the tinkle of the door-bell was heard. "Why, Frank," he continued, meeting him at the door, and greeting him cordially, "I had almost begun to fear that you were not coming. Come in. I am delighted to see you; so will be some old friends, whom you will find here." 
               All crowded round, giving him a joyful welcome, and he was soon installed in the seat of honor reserved for him by Zenaida. No sooner was he seated, than he looked round in search of his little namesake, who soon climbed into his accustomed customed place upon his knee, where he sat, contentedly playing with Frank's knife and watch, with which he permitted him to amuse himself, until the golden head drooped, the white lids closed above the blue eyes, and the pretty child slept, undisturbed by the joyous clamor of voices round him, his hand clasped tightly upon his playthings. 
               "Let me take him, Frank," said the soft voice of Zenaida. "He is troublesome, and will weary you." 
               "You shall not have him," replied Frank. "I have not heart to disturb so beautiful a picture. Allan," he said, turning to Elliott, "you will have to give this child to me. I will make a great man of him. But no," he continued, "I retract. His mother will make a good man of him, and that will be better than a great one." 
               "If you made him like yourself," replied Allan, gracefully, "he would be both great and good." 
               Zenaida smiled her thanks to her noble husband, for his generous praise of her friend. 
               "Zenaida," said Arthur, "where is that poem of Allan's, which you promised to show me. This will be a fine time to read it, while we are all together; and I am sure Allan need not blush to hear it, or the praises it may call forth." 
               Zenaida brought the manuscript, and placed it in Arthur's hand. 
               "Read it brother," she said. "Allan has dedicated it to me, and, in so doing, has committed to me his fame. I wished to hear Frank's opinion; but I feel confident he will agree with me." 
               "Is it a connected narrative?" said Arthur. 
               "The story," she replied, "is but the thread upon which he has strung some pearls of poesy, some gems of thought." 
                
               Arthur read, and his fine voice, perfect in intonation and emphasis, ringing with lofty pride, or trembling with tender pathos, conveyed the thoughts, the sentiments of the poet faithfully to the minds of his delighted hearers. 
               Frank sat spell-bound, drinking in the sound of the melodious numbers. When Arthur ceased, and all the others had expressed their admiration, Zenaida turned appealingly to him. 
               "What do I think of it?" said Frank, smiling. "I think you have cause to be proud of Allan; of him whose brain is filled with these glowing fancies; whose heart is stored with these exquisite feelings. This poem is one of those rare, soft-tinted shells of perfect beauty, which are sometimes thrown up from the ocean of Eternity upon the shores of Time; one of the bright scintillations from the fire divine which occasionally light up, with vivid gleam, the darkness of the light of Life. It is a pure brilliant, dug up from the mines of thought, which, like the Koh-i-noor, rewards the labor of a lifetime. Your name will be immortalized, Allan!" 
               "No," replied Allan, "it will not. This immortal fame which poets dream of, is as fallacious in its glittering brightness as the mirage of the desert, or the image of a kaleidoscope. Books are so many, verse-makers so numberless-and all hope for immortality! There are some few which stand out, eternal rocks upon the shores of life's river; some which, like the oak-ribbed ships, glide majestically over its waves, outriding many a storm. Others, like the smaller craft, dance merrily on the current for a time, soon to be submerged beneath the waters of oblivion; and others again are like the painted bubbles on the tide, beautiful, but vanishing even while we look upon them. Must I commit my frail bark,-which is freighted with withering flowers, and not with imperishable gems, as my little wife would make me believe,-to the current, that it may be overwhelmed before my eyes?" 
               "You underrate your own merit, Allan," said Frank; "Zenaida's estimate is correct. It is the duty of every man to exalt and enrich humanity, and you have no more right to withhold thought-treasures, than you would have to keep back your gold from a brother in need. But come, let us have some music." 
               Under the instruction of Allan and other masters, Zenaida has made rapid progress in music; and now her rich voice rings out in her favorite songs, the words of which were composed for her and set to music by her lover-husband. He is very proud of her sweet voice, and smiles approvingly as she rises from the instrument. 
               Thus, in the pleasant communion of friendship, pass the hours, and upon the happy circle look down the pictured eyes of little Amy. Their look of love is answered by Zenaida, who never looks upon the sweet image except through tears, which keep green the memory of the "withered flower" in the heart of her faithful friend. 
               
                   
                     Now, while the current of its life's so calm, 
                     We'll breathe a soft farewell to this loved home. 
                     The sky above is blue, the air is balm; 
                     But sure as earth is earth, the storms will come,- 
                     We will not see them break o'er thee, sweet home! 
                  
                
             
            FINIS. 
         
       
   
