
    ----CITATION----
        Bradshaw, Wesley (1837-1927). Brigham Young's Daughter .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5562 wright2-0044
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               BRIGHAM YOUNG'S DAUGHTER.
               A MOST THRILLING NARRATIVE OF HER ESCAPE FROM UTAH, WITH HER
                  INTENDED HUSBAND, THEIR PURSUIT BY THE MORMON DANITES OR AVENGING
                  ANGELS.
               TOGETHER WITH AN ACCOUNT OF THE ADVENTURES AND PERILS OF THE
                  FUGITIVES ON THE PRAIRIES AND WHILE CROSSING THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS.
               TO WHICH IS ADDED A FULL EXPOSURE OF THE SCHEMES OF THE MORMON
                  LEADERS TO DEFY AND DEFEAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT IN ITS ATTEMPTS TO SUPPRESS THE
                  HORRIBLE PRACTICE OF POLYGAMY IN UTAH.
            
            
               C. W. ALEXANDER, PUBLISHER,
                  
                     No. 224 SOUTH THIRD STREET,
                  
               
               PHILADELPHIA.
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by C. W. ALEXANDER,
                  in the Clerk's Office of the District Court in and for the Eastern District of
                  Pennsylvania.
            
         
         
            INTRODUCTION.
            TO THE PUBLISHER:
            
               DEAR SIR: I place at your disposal the following narrative, which,
               while it is certainly most startling and thrilling in its details, coincides exactly
               with the true state of affairs in Utah. I do not think there is one iota of
               exaggeration in the picture, terrible as it is.
            Through the negligence of successive administrations the hydra-headed monster of
               Mormonism has grown to vast proportions and defiant spirit. And the moral Communities
               of this land are now upon the eve of a most terrific struggle with the loathsome
               reptile—a struggle that can not longer be put off.
            Is it not shameful to think, that, while our ministers of religion preach against the
               lust of the flesh; and whilst the Judges in our Courts of Law almost daily send men
               for dreary years to the prison cell, to expiate the crime of bigamy; yet in the very
               heart of our beautiful land, during the past forty years, a whole people has been
               suffered to grow up and increase, who are devoted soul and body to this most infamous
               crime of all the Calendar!
            A crime that degrades woman to a level actually below the beasts of the field! A
               crime that makes woman at once the slave of lustful men rich enough to purchase her;
               the mere toy of base passion, to be cast aside the moment a newer and more attractive
               face is seen.
            The attempt to hide this moral leprosy and its festering spots of corruption by
               wrapping it around with a cloak of religious forms and false piety, is the worst of
               blasphemy! Let us not permit longer! but, with a bold hand, tear from off the
               terrible thing its flimsy drapery of gauze and spangle, that all good people may
               behold its soul destroying depravity and drive it from off the earth forever.
            
               The higher and holier we make the sphere of our mothers, wives and daughters,
                  and the truer men are to woman, the grander and nobler will be our destiny as a
                  nation!
            
            
               Sincerely Yours
               
                  WESLEY BRADSHAW
            
         
      
      
         
            Brigham Young's daughter
            
               
               A STRANGE VISIT TO THE AUTHOR.
               One evening a short time ago, I was sitting in my library all alone, though by no
                  means without company; for, my huge Newfoundland dog lay crouched on the hearth
                  before the fire place with his eyes looking affectionately up at me as he had
                  always done in lifetime. I say in lifetime; for "Dash" two years before—when I was
                  an editor on a morning paper—had saved my life by giving up his own. On my way
                  home from the office late one night a ruffian sprang at me from a dark alley-way.
                  So sudden was the attack that the gleaming bowie-knife he grasped would have been
                  in my heart ere I could have even raised my hand. But quick as the villain was,
                  Dash was quicker; and his great, powerful jaws snapped together on the murderer's
                  throat like a vise. The man went down helpless to save himself from his terrible
                  foe; but, in his desperation, he plunged the keen knife into Dash. Dash, however,
                  would not let go—even for my commands—till he thought the assassin dead. Then he
                  tried to rise and come to me; but he was too weak to do more than crawl at my
                  feet; lick my hands, and die. Poor, faithful, noble Dash! I could not find it in
                  my heart to part with him, dead though he was; so, engaging a skillful
                  taxidermist, I had him stuffed, and he still occupies his old favorite place on
                  the hearth of my library.
               Upon the table by my side lay a pile of newspapers, all of which had some
                  editorial remarks or comments upon the various bills that were lately introduced
                  in Congress for the suppression of polygamy in the territory of Utah. Whether, or
                  not it was that my mind had become deeply impressed with the subject because I had
                  read the great bulk of these comments, I hardly know; but at any rate I was
                  thinking most intensely about the whole matter, when suddenly a tap came on my
                  door.
               "Come in!" said I, somewhat startled, I must confess, for my mind had been so
                  preoccupied that I heard no foot-steps upon the passage floor outside, which I
                  should have heard as our housekeeper had it covered with oil-cloth instead of
                  carpet.
               Sallie the servant opened the door, and informed me that a lady and gentleman were
                  down in the parlor desiring to see me. Sallie handed me their card on which were
                  the names John W. Harris and Mrs. Ella Harris from Salt Lake City,
                     Utah.
               "Salt Lake City!" exclaimed I. "Sallie, is there any other company in the
                  parlor?"
               "Yes, Sir; the young ladies are having a little party there."
               "Then, Sallie, ask the lady and gentleman to please come up here to my
                  library."
               In about two or three minutes Sallie ushered the visitors into my presence.
               As I rose up to receive my strange callers, I cast upon each of them a momentary
                  glance of scrutiny; or to speak more correctly, a glance of curiosity; for, the
                  impression had already fixed itself upon my mind, that, as Mr. and Mrs. Harris
                  were from Salt Lake City, they must therefore be Mormons. And from this impression
                  arose my curiosity.
               Of course the first and most intense look was bestowed upon the lady. She was of
                  medium heighth, possessed of a fine-face—not a face that would be called lovely,
                  but one that was clear in complexion, regular in feature and equally dignified as
                  innocent—a face full of purity and affection, a face that would awaken true love
                  in any honorable man's heart, and wild passion in another kind. What struck
                  attention most, however, was the faultless symmetry of her figure; which was
                  without exception the nearest approach to perfection that I have ever beheld. If
                  this should meet her eye, or that of Mr. Harris, I plead not only my own
                  admiration, but also the desire that the reader naturally will have to know the
                  personal appearance of one whose narrative will thrill every heart that delights
                  in noble virtue and womanly purity. Such women as Mrs. Harris are indeed priceless
                  treasures to the men on whom they bestow their love.
               Mr. Harris was a tall fine looking young gentleman whose countenance was replete
                  with intelligence and manly firmness and resolution. Doubtless he is fully
                  able—using his own words—"to give a good account of himself, and take good care of
                  his young and loving wife." But to my narrative.
               "Excuse our intrusion Mr. Bradshaw," said Mr. Harris in a frank and open manner;
                  "but learning from your friend Mr. K***** of North Twelfth Street, that you are a
                  literary man having knowledge of the newspaper fraternity, we have called to see
                  you; notwithstanding we are strangers to you."
               "You are very welcome, Sir," I replied, "allow me to seat this lady and
                  yourself."
               "Permit me," said Mr. Harris, "at this juncture to hand you this note from Mr.
                  K*****."
               Both my guests having sat down, I opened the note, and found it to be a warm
                  commendation of the bearers; besides, a statement of the object they had in
                  calling upon me.
               "Really, Madam and Sir," said I, "I must again welcome you hither. It is seldom or
                  never that we see any one so far east from Deseret or rather Utah."
               "Ah, is that so, Sir? But now that the Pacific Railroad is finished I think you
                  will see more of the inhabitants of Utah coming eastward, though, they may not
                  possibly get this far. I hardly think I should have come so far myself, but for the fact that my wife
                  and I are obliged to put a considerable distance between ourselves and Salt Lake
                  City for our own personal safety."
               "Indeed Sir," replied I, looking from one to the other of my visitors, "that
                  statement does not astonish me, after reading the late newspaper reports about the
                  doings of the Mormons toward those amongst them who chance to express opinions
                  differing from their own. I have been reading considerably concerning affairs in
                  Utah, and the circumstance of your being from Salt Lake City, together with your
                  remarks excite my curiosity very much. I judge you have had some exciting
                  experience."
               "Yes Sir, we have had a great deal of that sort, and it was about that also we
                  have called upon you this evening, having been advised to do so by your friend Mr.
                  K*****. We have suffered such terrible hardships and been exposed to such
                  persecutions, with the peril of death hanging over us continually in Salt Lake
                  City, that we have deemed it not only proper, but our duty to lay some startling
                  facts before the community in regard to our experience there."
               "I shall be most happy to second your resolution in any way within my power,"
                  answered I, "I suppose you lived in Salt Lake City itself."
               "Yes Sir," said Mrs. Harris, speaking for the first time, in a voice sweet, but
                  firm. "I am a daughter of President Brigham Young; but on account of my marrying
                  Mr. Harris, or rather because I refused to become one of the wives of Heber
                  Kimball's oldest son, not only was I condemned to the harshest treatment, but Mr.
                  Harris was doomed to die."
               "How horrible! Can such a state of things exist in the United States? the boasted
                  land of enlightenment! and in the nineteenth century!" exclaimed I.
               "Horrible!" replied Mr. Harris "is but a weak word, Sir, 
                     
                     to
                   express the state of affairs in Utah. There if you are good Mormon,
                  blindly obedient to the despotic will and whim of rulers, there is contentment,
                  there is happiness for you. If you are a Gentile, and do, as the Mormons say, mind
                  your own business, you may get along pretty well. But if being a gentile, you so
                  far forget this minding of your own business, as to even utter words of objection
                  to the abominable practice of polygamy, or if you criticize any action of the
                  rulers, you are in constant tribulation and hot water. If you are a Mormon, and
                  depart in one iota from the dictums or teachings of these rulers; or if you
                  apostatize, Heaven help you! for you are then the constant victim of all who are
                  faithful; your life becomes hell upon earth. And if you are at all active in
                  attempting to disseminate your apostate ideas, the bowie-knives or rifles of the
                  'Danites' or Avenging Angels, as they are called, speedily cut short your
                  opposition with your life."
               "You evidently have had a rough experience Sir, as has doubtless also your
                  wife."
               "You can depend upon that, Sir."
               "I should judge that a narrative of this experience would be deeply thrilling and
                  interesting."
               "That is exactly what I have come to see you about. My object is not gain; but
                  being advised by your friend Mr. K*****. I have concluded to give you the history
                  of the past experience of my wife as well as myself in Salt Lake City; Both she
                  and I consider it a duty we owe to the morality of society in the United States to
                  make this public. So if you have the time and inclination you are welcome to the
                  narrative. All we ask is, that you use your best ability and energy to have it
                  sown broadcast over the land, and so let the people know what a terrible monster
                  has grown to such strength as to absolutely defy the government to enforce its
                  laws.
               "Why, Sir, in Salt Lake City, or in any of its dependent towns or villages
                  wherever Mormon Rule is supreme, a man dare not say the first word against the
                  Mormon law or belief. If he does, his life is not worth a moment's purchase. There
                  is no redress, no justice for a Gentile in Utah; for the civil laws even of the
                  United States are administered by officers, every one of whom is a Mormon. A
                  Mormon ruffian, in obedience to a secret order from the rulers of the Church, may
                  deliberately murder a gentile without the least dread of punishment for his crime.
                  Nay, more, he is encouraged, applauded and rewarded."
               "From what I have already heard and read about affairs in Utah," said I, "I am
                  convinced, Sir, that they are not only as bad as you say, but considerably worse.
                  I agree with you also in the idea that it is your duty to give to the Community
                  your experience."
               "And if I place it in your trust," returned Mr. Harris, "you will take it in
                  charge and have it sent out to the whole people of the land? for I assure you, I
                  am in terrible earnest, and you can depend on the truth of every line of the
                  account."
               "You can place perfect reliance on my doing so as earnestly and as thoroughly as
                  you could yourself, Mr. Harris." was my reply.
               He at once took out of his side coat pocket a package of manuscript neatly folded
                  up and handed it to me with the remark:
               "You will not perhaps find it, written in a sufficiently elegant diction for the
                  public, Sir; but its facts you will find true in every line. To that I pledge you
                  my word of honor. And now all I ask of you is to give it to the whole country.
                  Make it as strong as possible. Do not spare the vile cause of Mormonism. Show the
                  people what an evil monster it is and how dreadfully it will some day make war
                  upon the nation's life without it is crushed out now, at once and
                  forever."
               After some further conversation my unexpected but interesting visitors took their
                  leave of me. I was extremely well pleased with having been made the recipient of
                  such a valuable history as the experience and adventures ventures of Mr. Harris
                  and his noble young wife during their escape from Salt Lake City, and, in
                  accordance with my promise, I immediately set out the task of revising and
                  preparing the narrative for publication.
            
            
               THE NARRATIVE OF MR. AND MRS. HARRIS.
               About four years ago a Mormon missionary made his appearance in New York and the
                  New England States, going from town to town and endeavoring to win over converts
                  to the pernicious doctrines of Mormonism. He was a shrewd zealous, and
                  unprincipled man, and selected such towns and villages to operate in as displayed
                  the least amount of intelligence or were most removed from schools and
                  colleges.
               It is a most startling, but never-the-less true fact, that the whole Mormon
                  Community is made up of two parts. The leaders are men of great shrewdness,
                  selfishness, cunning and ability, but without the slightest moral principle,
                  viewed from the true stand point of religion. The followers or masses are
                  peculiarly ignorant, and of exceedingly low moral natures, entirely without
                  aspirations for anything high or noble, and are fully contented to live their
                  lives congregated almost like animals; for the flimsy forms and pretexts of
                  mormon, marrying and sealing will not make holy nor
                  valid in the sight of God a course of life in which a man has as many women as his
                  means will allow him to support and merely calls them his wives.
                  Before Heaven the first wife is the only true and proper wife. The others have no
                  right to share the title which legally belongs to her.
               In the course of their travels these missionaries entered a little village near
                  the centre of Hamilton County, New York, and on a certain Sunday afternoon were
                  holding a meeting in the barn of a farmer on whose mind by their specious and
                  glittering arrangements they had succeeded in making most favorable impression.
                  While they were preaching to the little congregation assembled in the barn, a
                  young man by the name of John W. Harris chanced to saunter into the place. As he
                  heard and listened to the impassioned and glowing description of the Missionaries
                  of the City of the Saints, far away in the Rocky Mountains, he longed to go and
                  live there. He thought it must be a very paradise; a second garden of Eden.
               From that day forth he could think of nothing else; and, shortly after the
                  missionaries left the village he got together what money he could, bade his
                  friends and relations farewell, and set out to overtake the "Ministers of Zion on
                  the Mountains," as the proselyters called themselves. He soon did overtake them,
                  and, announcing to them his great desire to be a Mormon and to go and live at
                  "Deseret" or the Great Salt Lake
                     The Mormon father muttered a curse to himself ere raising the weapon he
                        clutched in his hand.
                  
                   City, they most cordially welcomed young
                  Harris and talked 
                     to
                     
                   kindly to him, and held forth such excellent promises to him, that he
                  was nearly beside himself with delight.
               Finding that the Mormon train of emigrants was to leave St. Joseph, Missouri,
                  early on the following month of May, for the City of the Saints, Harris resolved
                  that he would join it. A fall outfit, he ascertained, would cost him about five
                  hundred dollars. He already had a little short of four hundred, and, so, putting
                  this amount out at interest in a savings bank, John went to work to raise the
                  remainder.
               In this he was successful and with about two hundred converts to the new faith,
                  John found himself in St. Joseph on the appointed day of May eager to commence his
                  journey across the plains to the promised land.
               A nephew of Orson Pratt had come to the town to meet and act as Captain of the
                  expedition, and to guide it across the wild almost tractless prairies and over the
                  Wasatch Ridge of the Rocky Mountains.
               The appearance of this Saint, and also in truth the appearance of all the converts
                  or prospective saints, struck young Harris with considerable surprise. Captain
                  Pratt was a tall, athletic, and terrible, rough looking specimen of a man. His
                  dress was a combination of farmer, brigand and Indian. Slung on his shoulder was a
                  fine rifle; while his waist belt was garnished with a pair of heavy,
                  carefully-loaded revolvers and a huge bowie knife.
               So much for the Captain Saint. The company Harris noticed was composed of English,
                  Welsh and people of the remoter parts of Europe. The men were all heavy featured,
                  dull looking fellows with the animal instincts and propensities excessively
                  developed, little or no intelligence. The women were with one or two exceptions
                  exactly the counterparts of the men; all animal and no intellect.
               The survey rather misgave Mr. Harris; but answering himself with excuses, he
                  determined to go through, now that he had commenced, and at least keep up a good
                  heart till he had settled down in Salt Lake City awhile.
               During the journey overland, beyond a few minor accidents and incidents, nothing
                  occurred to the caravan, and in due time the summit of the Wasatch ridge was
                  mounted by the weary travelers. This occurred early in the afternoon; and as the
                  city burst suddenly upon their sight they sent up wild shouts and cries of
                  uncontrollable delight. They danced and embraced one another, sang, and prayed,
                  and exhibited their emotions in every 
                     conceiveable
                     conceivable
                   way.
               And certainly there is no more beautiful scene in the world than that which
                  springs upon the sight of the traveler as he steps upon the top of the mountain
                  ridge in the afternoon and looks down into the verdant valley so far below. This
                  will be seen from Mr. Harris' description of the event which is so beautiful and grand that we
                  insert it without alteration.
               "On the 22nd day of August we behold for the first time the Holy City the City of
                  Zion, [wherein I was destined to enjoy so much happiness, wherein I was to know so
                  much bitter sorrow.] I shall never forget that day. The night previous we encamped
                  close by Carson House Station on Bauchman's Fork. To the West of our Camp the
                  mighty mountain ridge towered away to the clouds, the snow crowning its tops with
                  purest white. It stood like a Heavenly wall between the City of the Saints and the
                  busy, toiling, wicked world beyond the prairies across which we had come to the
                  expected haven of rest.
               "We all slept soundly; and doubtless very many were the glad and delightful
                  visions that visited my slumbering companions. At day break we rose, attended to
                  our devotions, ate our morning meal, and then started with wildly throbbing hearts
                  upon our last day's journey.
               "Up! up! up! ever up! the pathway momentarily becoming more rugged and in places
                  exceedingly perilous. Here and there, as though cast up by some terrible
                  convulsion of nature, lay huge boulders and masses of rock. At every few yards
                  however, there gushed up out of the sandy soil, from under broken heaps of rock,
                  or trickled from the clayey side of a bluff, deliciously refreshing water, most
                  delightful to our parched tongues.
               "Soon we entered the Grand Chasm, far up the slopes of which on both sides of us
                  stretched extensive forests of pine, fir, hemlock and other noble trees, having
                  vari-colored foliage, the whole interlaced and bound together as it were with wild
                  rose bushes in full bloom and trailing vines also filled with most beautiful
                  flowers. The sun shone forth with great vigor; but a cool breeze from the mountain
                  so tempered its fervency as to make it pleasant.
               "Rugged and more rugged grew the road; but we pressed forward with renewed
                  determination; and finally reached a kind of plateau only a few feet below the top
                  of the ridge. From this directly through the ridge was a sharp depression or
                  gorge, before entering which we halted a short time in obedience to the order of
                  Captain Pratt. After resting ourselves we were again in motion with eager and
                  expectant steps; each and all of us stretching forth our heads to obtain the first
                  sight of the Holy Valley. I was among the first, and as I leaped out from the
                  gorge and landed on a table like ridge of rock beyond; the whole glorious
                  landscape flashed upon my view. Oh, what a delightfully exquisite scene it was,
                  too. Far away to the right lay Salt Lake like a disc of polished silver, to the
                  left spread out the City delightfully embowered in trees, while in the Western
                  Distance; and on the other side of the Great valley, loomed the other ridge of the
                  Rocky Mountains, solemnly grandly impressive.
               "The atmosphere too added a charm to the sight, for it was as clear as that of
                  Italy, and the smallest objects could be distinguished at a distance that was most
                  astonishing. Never before had I beheld a scene that gave me such ideas of
                  immensity, that made me feel so small and insignificant, or that instilled into my
                  mind such appreciation of the omnipotence of God. The 
                     pinacle
                     pinnacle
                   on which I stood was fully eight thousand feet above the ocean
                  level.
               "After a halt of half an hour—during which time the zealous and happy emigrants
                  were contemplating the New Jerusalem—our Captain gave the word and we began to
                  descend toward the valley. Let the reader imagine an immense bowl the sides of
                  which are formed by the towering mountains, whose faces in ages gone by have been
                  worn away by an ocean or lake into gigantic terraces or steps; and he will have a
                  slight idea of the configuration of Salt Lake Valley. During our descent of the
                  mountains we only got occasional glimpses of the City to which we were wending our
                  way, owing to the path leading down along deep gulches or roads worn by the rains
                  and storms.
               "When we had nearly finished our journey down we were met by a large deputation of
                  the inhabitants of the City who had come forth thus to extend to us the hand of
                  brotherly kindness and love."
            
            
               LIFE IN EARNEST AT SALT LAKE CITY.
               After the Excitement of the journey to the City of the Saints had worn away and
                  Mr. Harris began life in real earnest among his new brethren, his naturally moral
                  and good nature began to convince him that he had taken a wrong step in joining
                  his lot to such a people as the Mormons. His judgment was keen enough to see what
                  we have before stated; that the masses of the Mormon community in Utah were dull,
                  sluggish people devoid of every high or ennobling quality of mind, and possessed
                  only of avarice and animal passion; while the rulers were keen witted,
                  unscrupulous men who used the masses merely as pieces of excellently combined
                  machinery to further their own selfish ends and passions, He yearned to leave them
                  and return home; though this would have caused great pecuniary loss to him; for
                  through the influence of Brigham Young [who seeing that he was exceedingly
                  intelligent and smart, had made himself very friendly to him] he had quickly after
                  his arrival, been placed in a way of making money. Gladly would he have given up
                  all his fair prospects, and turned his face eastward again; but for one fact,
                  which was, that he was in love. He had seen Miss Ella Young at her father's house;
                  or rather at one of his houses, and the two had at once taking a liking to each
                  other, which speedily developed into the most earnest love. At the beginning of this acquaintance the father of
                  the young lady did not seem disposed to prevent it, or at least he took no notice
                  of it. But few months later he commanded the visits of young Harris to cease as a
                  son of Brother Kimball had "had a revelation" commanding him to ask Brother Young
                  his daughter Ella in marriage. This "revelation" settled the question and blasted
                  the matrimonial prospect of the young lovers; Neither of them, however, were faint
                  hearted, as the sequel shows; but each determined not to submit to such an
                  arbitrary mandate. To resist also was attended with the utmost peril, for what 
                     Bringham
                     Brigham
                   Young says, is law both civil, military and divine in Utah, and Mormons
                  would as soon think of opposing the will of Heaven itself as opposing the Great
                  Head of their faith.
               During the first few weeks of knowing each other the lovers had exchanged the
                  conviction that polygamy, or a plurality of wives was sinful in the sight of God;
                  and John solemnly promised Ella that after he married her he would never take to
                  himself another wife. So both looked forward to a happy life with each other, and
                  were building those delightful fabrics called castles in the air, when like a
                  thunder bolt from a clear sky fell the order of the young lady's father.
               "What are we to do, John?" asked Ella on the occasion which was to be their last
                  meeting. "I have pledged my love, myself to you. You have done the same to me, and
                  now I am doomed to become the wife—oh! God what a mockery is the word wife here in
                  Utah!—of this Kimball. He is a gross, sensual brute both in mind and body. He
                  already has six wives and now because he has taken a fancy for me I am doomed by
                  my own father to become his victim."
               The true hearted, noble girl placed her hands in those of her betrothed lover and
                  gazed up into his face appealingly. John Harris remained silent for some moments
                  as a man who is revolving a great project, and then drawing Ella closer to him
                  replied:
               "I hardly know, Ella, my dear. Do you not think your father could be persuaded
                  from his intention? Surely he will not consign you, his child to a life of
                  constant misery even to please Kimball's uncle."
               "Yes, but he will!" exclaimed Ella bitterly. "You do not know what father is. When
                  he makes up his mind you might as well attempt to turn the sun from his course.
                  Besides what makes it more certain is that it is Kimball who has asked father to
                  give me to his nephew. Were it any other man we might possibly thwart the design.
                  But father would allow Kimball to influence him by the slightest word, when fifty
                  other men could not do so."
               Again John remained silent for awhile, with compressed lips he said:
               "Ella, you have often told me how deeply you loved me; and my heart 
                     tell
                     tells
                   me, that you do. Now what would you be willing to do; what would you be
                  willing to dare for me? for me, who am ready to lay down my
                  
                     The Mormon Danites overpowering Stevens in whose house Ella was
                        hidden.
                   life for you? Think a moment before you answer me."
               "I don't need to think at all, John," instantly said Ella, "I will do anything, or
                  dare anything for your sake!"
               "Then refuse to obey your father!" Dare to do right in the eyes of God, and
                  believe me, God will not forget you in the day of your tribulation."
               "Your words give me strength, dear John. For your sake I will resist; for your
                  sake I will dare even my father's wrath."
               "Very well, darling, and I will endeavor to manage matters so that we may escape
                  from Utah and make our way to the States. Sh—I hear some one coming, and I must
                  go. Meet me if you can at the bowery in the morning. Do not speak to me; but if
                  you wish to tell me anything write it on a slip of paper, roll it up and drop it
                  at some convenient spot. If I have anything to impart to you I will do likewise.
                  Be cautious; but do not be timid. If need be we will die. But they shall never do
                  this iniquity while I live!
               "Nor while I live!" added Ella in a low, but such solemn tone that it sent a
                  thrill of love through the heart of John Harris who, pressing a farewell kiss upon
                  the lips of his intended wife, hurried away to think over several plans of escape
                  which were already in his fertile brain.
            
            
               ELLA'S TRIAL.
               Scarcely had her affianced husband left her when the father of our heroine made
                  his appearance.
               "Who was that, Ella?" said he, "I mean the person who has just gone out."
               "It was Mr. Harris, papa," replied the daughter.
               "He must not come here any more, Ella," said the father. "I have given you to
                  Orson Kimball; and you must put away all thought of marrying John Harris. I know
                  he is a good young man, and all that; but Orson's Uncle has told me that his
                  nephew has had a revelation in which it was shown to him that he was to ask you in
                  marriage of me. And you know we must obey the revelation."
               The word revelation suggested to the quick witted daughter an idea, and she
                  instantly remarked:
               "But, dear father, John had also a revelation exactly of the same nature some time
                  ago, and he intended in a few days from yesterday to state it to you."
               The father started and bit his lips; but instantly regaining his coolness, he
                  said:
               
               "He should have done so before, my child. He is now too late, and you must become
                  the wife of Orson Kimball."
               "But father, dear father—"
               There! there! stop now!" interrupted Brigham, impetuously, and with a shade of
                  displeasure in his tone, "the matter has been settled. My promise has been given,
                  and I shall not break it, most especially that has been given to my friend and
                  co-laborer Brother Kimball."
               "Father, you must hear me!" exclaimed the daughter with such a burst
                  of determination, so much like his own, that the Prophet stood and looked at her
                  in mute wonder. Nor did she give him time to recover himself ere she
                  continued:
               "I cannot, I will not commit the sin of marrying a man, no matter how exalted may
                  be his position, who has already six wives."
               "My child! my child! are you mad! Or is it apostacy in my own household!" cried
                  out Ella's father in wonder and fury.
               "No, dear father I am not mad. But that Bible—the Holy Word of God—from which you
                  yourself preach to the people, teaches me that it is wrong, that 
                     its
                     it
                   is wicked, for a man to have more than one wife."
               "Well! well! well!" exclaimed Brigham, striding around the room, "think that a
                  child of mine should thus destroy herself! should thus actually defy me, the Chief
                  Head and Prophet of Zion's Church! Oh, perverse, wicked girl! Satan hath indeed
                  entered into your heart, and taken possession of you entirely: You must be
                  disciplined, or you will be lost, lost to all eternity! You speak of the Bible! Do
                  you not know that God is constantly vouchsafing to his chosen servants among men
                  new revelations of His Holy will. Besides, have you not often and often heard me
                  in our Tabernacle prove out of these self same scriptures of which you speak, that
                  polygamy was an institution of Heaven. Is it not written down in the Sacred Book
                  that Abraham, Isaac und Jacob, all beloved and blest of God, had many wives and
                  concubines; as had also Solomon, and Saul, and David, all of them."
               "But father," argued Ella, "does not the Apostle Paul, speaking of Bishops, say in
                  his inspired Epistle that he, the bishop, shall be the husband of one
                  wife?"
               "You do not understand the proper interpretation, my child," rejoined the Prophet.
                  "And, even granting all that, is the Apostle greater than Master, our Savior? who
                  said 'Many shall come from the east and from the west, and from the north and from
                  the south, and shall sit down with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the Kingdom of
                  God'."
               Ella seemed to be inspired as she replied:
               "Father, you have taught the people here that these things were ordained of God,
                  in order that His people might multiply and replenish the earth. Now, had such
                  really been the case would not the Creator have given to Adam in the Garden of
                  Eden two, four, a dozen, or a hundred Eves instead of but
                     one?
               
               "Silence, girl!" thundered the father. "You blaspheme! You know not of what you
                  speak. I see! You have had your mind perverted doubtless by Harris, whom I have
                  for sometime suspected of being disposed to apostacy from our Holy Faith. You will
                  not submit in love and filial obedience to me, and so I must enforce my authority
                  over you by power. The Devil is indeed abroad in your heart, and you must be
                  disciplined. As to Harris, I shall first warn him and then, if he persist in
                  opposing my will I will consign him to the Danites!"*
                  *
               
               "Oh father, dear father," implored Ella, as she heard this awful threat against
                  her lover, "do not, I beseech you; injure Mr. Harris!"
               From the expression of his daughter's face the Prophet perceived that she loved
                  John Harris most devotedly. Seldom or never had any one even of the most
                  influential men in Utah, expressed an objection to the 
                     wlil
                     will
                   and authority of Brigham Young. And now to be actually opposed and
                  almost defied by his own daughter was more than his domineering spirit could
                  endure, and so, in a rage, he tore her arms from around his neck and left the
                  room, with the ejaculation:
               "The spirit that will not bend must be broken!"
               Ella know her father's disposition too well not to comprehend how terrible would
                  be his vengeance, and, flinging herself down upon a wooden settee that was beside
                  her, she gave way to a paroxysm of grief and despair. Not that she feared for
                  herself; for, having once made up her mind that she was right, she would die
                  rather than yield. But the dread of what would be done to John made her most
                  wretched.
               "Oh, what shall I do!" she exclaimed in an agonized tone, "I have been too rash! I
                  have spoken words which will consign John to the hands of the Danites, and
                  doubtless, ere another sun rises, he may be lying murdered in the street. Why! oh
                  why was I ever permitted to see him to be thus the means of his certain
                  destruction. But I may warn yet him, and so save him from death. He must fly to
                  General Conner's Camp. Among the Gentile Soldiers he will be safe. I will go to
                  him and warn him if I am murdered for it when I come back!"
               The brave girl leaped to her feet, flew to a little wardrobe, dressed herself
                  hastily in a simple street costume and started for the door. At this juncture,
                  however, two sour faced old women, who were two of the first wives of the Prophet,
                  suddenly entered the room, and, pushing Ella roughly back closed the door
                  securely.
               
                  *The Danites, or Avenging Angels, are a
                     peculiarly Mormon institution. They were a body of zealots, who, at the bidding
                     of the Mormon Rulers secretly murdered anyone whose death was necessary to the
                     Church. The leaders were the notorious Ephe Hanks, Porter Rockwell and Bill
                     Hickman, and to this day there is no one who does not shudder at the mere
                     mention of such deeds of blood as the Mountain Meadow Massacre.
               
               
               "So, hussy!" exclaimed one of them, "you have been defying the authority of your
                  father, eh! Arguing with him about things you do not understand; giving him all
                  kinds of impudence!"
               "And all," added the second, "because your father wishes to give you to wife to
                  Brother Kimball, instead of allowing you to marry that booby, John Harris. You
                  ought to be proud of the honor you would have in becoming the new wife of Brother
                  Kimball."
               "Yes, that you ought!" assented the first.
               "Let me out!" said Ella quietly, and without noticing the vituperation of the
                  women.
               "We'll take you out!" said they; "that's what we came here for. We are going to
                  take you along with us, lock you up in a room all alone and discipline you so that
                  you will soon be glad to submit to what is ordered for your own good!"
               Ella was almost beside herself with rage, but she restrained herself and merely
                  said:
               "I have an errand that I must do. Let me out and I promise you I will return
                  within an hour and then you can do with me what you please."
               Both the women laughed at this and one said: "Let you out so that you may go to
                  John Harris eh? Oh, no, not a step! Come along with us now, and we will take care
                  of you till Brother Kimball returns from his journey to Great Cotton Wood Canyon,
                  which will be in about two weeks."
               The women took hold each of one of our heroine's arms; but, with the strength and
                  fury of a lioness, she struggled with them, and finally shaking them from her, got
                  to the door, flung it open and bounded out. Instantly, however, she was seized in
                  a grip of iron and stopped. Looking up, she beheld her father, who it was had thus
                  arrested her flight. She did not quail before his angry look, however, but made
                  the same request that she had made of the women, who by this time were again at
                  her side.
               "Father, please let me go. I wish to do a little errand. Let me go and I will be
                  back within an hour!"
               "No!" he replied in a tone like doom itself.
               "I must, and I will!" exclaimed Ella struggling fiercely to get away.
               "Behave yourself!" hissed the father between his shut teeth, as he tightened his
                  grasp on her arm till she groaned with the pain it gave her. At the same time he
                  forced her along at quite a rapid pace, followed by his two wives. He did not
                  speak another word till he got his daughter to the house in which he intended she
                  should be imprisoned. Here he hurriedly walked her into a far room in the second
                  story up stairs, and left her with the words:
               "Now then, learn to submit. You shall die ere you shall cross my purpose!"
               "And I will die ere I submit to the iniquity of marrying Orson
                  Kimball!" exclaimed Ella.
               The next instant the door was shut and bolted, and she was a prisoner.
            
            
               THE DANITES ON MR. HARRIS' TRACK.
               John Harris was too shrewd a man not to be sure that he was in the Prophet's way;
                  and consequently that the faithful Danites would soon be in full pursuit of him.
                  He accordingly took the advice that Rockwell once gave an English army Captain who
                  met that redoubtable assassin while he was crossing the plains. It was, "keep your
                  top eye skinned, look out for the dead trees and have your revolver cocked and on
                  the right side of your Waist belt."
               How well founded were his suspicions the following fact will show. The second
                  night after his last visit to Ella and while he was on his way home from seeing a
                  sick friend a rifle ball whizzed close to his head fired evidently from the weapon
                  of a Danite. Instantly wheeling, Harris whipped out his own revolver and fired
                  directly at the retreating figure of the man who had shot at him. He heard the man
                  cry out as though he were struck, but fearing lest there were some of his
                  murderous companions with him, Harris did not pursue.
               To make his own escape from Utah would have been an easy matter to a man like
                  Harris; but his resolution to rescue Ella and take her along with him, rendered
                  the undertaking almost certain death, to himself at least. So, during the whole of
                  that night after his attempted assassination he lay awake cogitating what plan to
                  adopt. On the day he had appointed to meet Ella at the Bowery* she had not been there, and all
                  the visits which he had subsequently made clandestinely to the Prophet's Block, as
                  the square is called in which Brigham Young has his dwelling houses; had been in
                  vain, for he could not see her. The first task was to find out where Ella was
                  imprisoned for that she was thus debarred of her liberty by her
                  father, John Harris had no doubt whatever. From the outside of the high stone wall
                  that enclosed Brigham's premises John Harris could not ascertain a syllable about
                  Ella, and it was equally certain that he could not gain admittance, except
                  peradventure in disguise. So he thought of a particular friend of his down in that
                  part of the City
                     *The Bowery is an immense timber frame work
                        completely covered with the boughs of trees, where, on certain days, the
                        Mormons assembled to worship, and listen to sermons and exhortations by
                        their Elders. It is not to be confounded with the Tabernacle which is
                        another structure entirely.
                   called Little
                  Denmark who often used to haul wood and other things for the Prophet. To this
                  friend he forthwith went, and ascertained that the next day he was to haul some
                  lumber to the Prophet's Block, and by a little 
                     manauver
                     maneuver
                   he induced his friend to let him have charge of one of the ox carts used
                  in the work.
               Once within the enclosure Mr. Harris—who was so 
                     throughly
                     thoroughly
                   altered in his personal appearance that Young himself passed him several
                  times without for a moment suspecting who he was—by good fortune and native
                  shrewdness found out exactly in what house Ella was detained. By running great
                  risk also he communicated his presence to her, and bade her look for him as soon
                  as the moon went down each night, and be ready to fly with him at some opportune
                  moment.
               Meantime poor Ella suffered considerable rough treatment at the hands of her two
                  mothers. And here we interrupt our narrative to show one of the 
                     hart-heardening
                     heart-hardening
                   effects of polygamy. These two women took great delight in thus
                  oppressing their captive, because she was the child of another
                  
                     wnfe
                     wife
                   who had been more favored by the husband than they had been.
            
            
               THE ESCAPE FROM THE PROPHET'S BLOCK.
               For two nights Ella watched in vain at the window for the signal that John had
                  agreed upon. But on the third night immediately after the moon had gone down a
                  faint chirrup like that of a 
                     Katidyd
                     Katydid
                   told her that her lover was directly under her window. It is quite
                  likely that had her father dreamed of any one daring to approach this house he
                  would have had it well guarded. But he thought that through the vigilance of the
                  armed guards stationed outside the wall that enclosed his extensive grounds, no
                  one could possibly get into the latter. This was an immense advantage to John
                  Harris, who made the most of it.
               Ella seconding her lover's efforts with the best judgment and rapid but silent
                  movements, opened the window cautiously and bade him remain close in by the wall.
                  Then with nimble fingers she made a rope of the sheets on her bed and slipping to
                  the ground as skillfully as a sailor, was in a few moments in the embrace of her
                  lover, who too much excited to speak, only pressed his lips to hers, and then,
                  drawing her hand in his, crouched down and showed her that she was to creep as he
                  did to the wall.
               Several times during the tedious and perilous journey did the fugitives halt as
                  some noise broke the stillness of the night and made them fear that they were
                  discovered.
               Finally the wall was reached, however, and here the real danger commenced
                     The Mormon Danite going to kill Ella to prevent her disclosures.
                  
                   menced, for the patrols outside the
                  Prophet's Block were numerous, keen, and faithful. They were most thoroughly
                  armed; and as the Prophet is in constant danger of assassination, they would be
                  exceedingly prompt at shooting down any strangers, without inquiring who they were
                  first. John climbed up cautiously and peered up and down the Street. No one was in
                  sight, and quickly helping Ella over he sprang down beside her.
               The two now hurried through the darkness as fast as they could walk—they would
                  have run but they were afraid to do so—and without any accident they arrived in
                  safety at the house of a Gentile who had pledged himself to assist John in the
                  matter. They would have started for Camp Douglas, where the soldiers of the U. S.
                  Army would gladly protect them; but there was too much peril in the undertaking;
                  for the instant the escape of Ella was found out, that instant would armed
                  couriers be dispatched upon all the mountain roads, who could not fail to overtake
                  the fugitives before they had gone half the distance. In order to more completely
                  throw any pursuit at fault, John Harris left his fair companion at the house of
                  his friend and returned to his own house, well knowing that there would his
                  enemies first come. His idea proved correct, for before eight o'clock on the
                  following morning there knocked at the door three men, two of whom he knew by
                  sight as belonging to the retinue of Young.
               Their ostensible object in calling was to get Harris to do some carpenter's work
                  on a house which one of them said he owned near the Prophet's Block. They seemed
                  disappointed and disconcerted to find him at the house at all. Said one:
               "I thought I saw you last night late, near the Young Block."
               "Did you, indeed?" replied our hero, laughing; "Your eyes are not very sharp,
                  then, brother, for it must have been somebody else."
               The engagement to do the work was made and the strangers after some casual
                  conversation took their leave. John Harris played his part most admirably; and, as
                  though nothing had occurred, he went to his work. Though apparently paying no
                  attention to anything or any person he never-the-less noticed all that went on. By
                  this vigilance he soon found out that he was himself the centre of attraction to
                  several keen eyed Mormon detectives. At the completion of his day's labor he
                  returned home still under the rigid surveillance of his wary watchers. This
                  continued for three days, and then his anxiety to see Ella induced him to visit
                  the house of the friend with whom he had left her. Unfortunately this was a wrong
                  step; for, although the original detectives had left watching Harris, a new set
                  took their places, and even while he was rejoicing at his own shrewdness, these
                  new ones traced him directly to the house where Ella was hidden. From the first
                  her relations had made up their minds that Harris or his friends had rescued Ella,
                  and consequently his footsteps were dogged constantly as we have stated, and with what success the reader sees. That same
                  night at a late hour a knock came to the door of Mr. Stevens' house.
               "Who's there?" called out Mr. Stevens. "And what do you want?"
               "We are officers of the law and have a warrant for your arrest," was the
                  reply.
               "You lie! and you know it!" was his undaunted answer.
               "Open the door or we'll break it down!"
               "Go ahead my fine larks; but look out for yourselves; for I have two six-shooters
                  and I'll drop a man to every shot!"
               A loud laugh was all the rejoinder that the ruffians made to this. And the next
                  moment the door snapped from its fastenings and five or six men rushed in. Stevens
                  pulled every chamber of his revolvers and every one missed, showing that the
                  weapons had been tampered with. Wild with rage, Stevens, who was a powerful man,
                  hurled the pistols at his assailants and then rushed among them with a bowie
                  knife. But in a moment the ringleader of the villains caught up a sheet from off
                  the bed that stood in the room, flung it over Stevens' head and tripped him down.
                  By the aid of a second of the scoundrels the victim of this violence was rendered
                  helpless. There had been no light except from a dark lantern which the intruders
                  brought with them, and this was now opened fully.
               While three of the ruffians remained in the room, the others went into the
                  adjoining apartment in search of Ella. "Be careful Ned," said the leader in a
                  whisper, "don't let her escape, nor don't let her cry out or anything like that!
                  And now let's see what this skunk has got here in his trunk. He's been suspected
                  of having documents about here that he has no right to. These d—d Gentiles ought
                  to be rubbed out any how. If they don't like Mormon ways what do they come here to
                  Utah for?"
               "That's so Captain," assented another of the villains in a whisper, "and you
                  better just let me put this into that Stevens."
               With these words the blood thirsty wretch drew his bowie knife and stepping to
                  Stevens, whose body and head were entirely wrapped in the sheet, held the deadly
                  point directly over his heart and waited but a nod from his superior to plunge it
                  home to the hilt.
               "I'd like to give you the order, but in this case it is ordered otherwise by the
                  Master."
               A sardonic look of disappointment crossed the face of the would be assassin, and
                  he put away his blade. The next step of the ruffians was, to search a large trunk
                  that stood at the foot of the bed, in which they found a number of letters and
                  documents that they appropriated.
               Meanwhile the others returned to the room, two of them supporting the almost
                  insensible form of Ella, whose helplessness was readily explained by the
                  sickening, stifling odor of chloroform that spread itself through the apartment.
                  The object of the raid being completed successfully, the intruders prepared to
                  take their departure.
               "Stevens," said the leader in a warning tone, "stir not till the clock strikes the
                  next hour. If you attempt to give any alarm, even after that, you are a dead man
                  for you are in the hands of the Danites. Remember and be warned."
               In a few moments more they were gone carrying with them their prisoner, who now 
                     begun
                     began
                   to give signs of returning vitality. Stevens, the moment he heard the
                  door shut, sprang up, and going to a bureau drawer, got another revolver which he
                  examined critically to see that it was all right. Finding it so, he hurried on his
                  clothes and going out through a back exit he bounded away in a round about
                  direction and gained the road just in time to see four of the marauders a few rods
                  ahead of him forcing their captive along, she every now and then making desperate
                  efforts to free herself from their clutches.
               His first impulse was to fire at the kidnappers but a moment's consideration
                  induced him to relinquish this, and instead to follow the party. In this way he
                  could ascertain where Ella was to be taken, and perhaps assist Harris to rescue
                  her again. Being an experienced plainsman and hunter, Stevens could easily trace
                  his foes without their knowing it, and had the good fortune to see them take her,
                  not as he had expected they would, to the place from which she had been taken by
                  her lover, but to the house of a Mormon whom Stevens knew to be a notorious man of
                  violence toward anything Gentile and anti-Mormon.
               Near this house and in full view of its door, Stevens watched patiently until he
                  saw the four Danites come out and go down the road. Again he followed them for he
                  felt certain the fair prisoner would not be removed from her new place of
                  confinement, and he wished to see also where the villains went to. Shortly
                  afterward the four met the other two coming up the road from the direction of
                  Stevens' house. These two had evidently been left there to kill Stevens if he
                  should attempt to give any alarm. Doubtless they had remained in front of the
                  dwelling with weapons ready; but never dreamed of their victim giving them the
                  slip as he did. In fact they did not suppose that he would be brave enough to
                  pursue these four ruffian companions. But they were sadly mistaken in their
                  notions, for a more courageous, determined and yet prudent man never existed than
                  Mr. Stevens.
               Cautiously, but with the certainty of a panther, the noble fellow followed the
                  Danites until they separated a few blocks away. He could not get near enough to
                  hear what they conversed about; but supposing that the next one they would pay
                  their respects to, would be his friend John Harris, he at once directed his own
                  steps toward the house of the latter. Reaching it without any accident, he roused
                  Ella's lover and imparted the exciting news to him who was completely stunned by
                  it.
               
               "Great Heaven! what shall I do!" exclaimed Harris in his sore mental agony.
               "Why I'll tell you what you'll do!" replied Stevens, "let us march ourselves back
                  to this blaguard's house and re-capture Ella. He will never suspect such a thing,
                  and consequently we can get in easily. And once in we can manage the rest of the
                  business I think."
               "Nobly spoken, friend Stevens! and you will see me through?"
               "You can bet on me John. You know me before to day. Come get your revolvers and
                  let us be off. There's no time to lose. By the by, have you got an extra shooter
                  you can give me? It will be handy you know."
               Within ten minutes these two friends were on their perilous errand, which was
                  either to restore Ella to John, or cost him and Stevens their lives. Stevens said
                  he did not care for his life as he was an old 
                     batchelor
                     bachelor
                   anyhow; and he was boiling over to be revenged for the terrible
                  treatment he had met from the hands of the Danites.
               In due time the house was reached and strangely enough the door was not fastened
                  at all; a fact which must have been the result of accident. Cautiously but boldly
                  the rescuers glided within the portal. All was dark but they detected a light
                  footfall on the floor overhead. Waiting awhile for the appearance of some one and
                  no person coming they stealthily ascended the stairs. Once up they saw the glimmer
                  of a light through a slightly open chamber door. Toward this they made their way
                  noiselessly, and peeped in.
               Upon a rude bed lay the apparently sleeping form of Ella, while searching in a
                  closet in one corner was the Danite, a tall, powerful looking man. He seemed to be
                  much excited. In his hand he carried a bull's eye lantern which he flashed about
                  on the contents of the closet. Meanwhile he kept muttering aloud to himself:
               "Those letters are ugly things. I wonder how Stevens got them. Those devils of
                  Gentiles are getting to know too much. And here it seems the girl knows all about
                  it. No wonder she wanted to escape. She and her lover whom we intend to put out of
                  our way to-morrow, would have got off to the States and exploded all the plot.
                  Where is that poison I wonder? Perdition take it! I won't fool any longer! I'll
                  knock her infernal head in! I guess the old man don't care much any how! Never do
                  to let any kind of affection for a sprat of a girl stand in the way of a whole
                  people's good! Never! so I'll do it on my own responsibility!"
               Seizing up a hammer, the villain took a step toward the sleeping girl, at the same
                  time flashing the light of his lantern directly upon her innocent, beautiful face.
                  Another instant and Stevens' keen bowie knife was plunged to the hilt in the
                  would-be murderer's neck, severing the great artery, and cutting every organ clean
                  down to the left lung. It was a fearful blow, and so instantly fatal that the
                  Danite did not even utter a sigh.
               "You infernal hell-hound!" hissed the furious Stevens in the dead man's ear, as he
                  let the corpse down heavily to the floor. "Go to your master! Now then, Harris,"
                  he continued taking the lantern from the Danite's hand, "Quick! Take Ella in your
                  arms and let us be off."
               The words were useless, however, for ere they were uttered John Harris had raised
                  Ella's form up on his shoulder, and stood waiting to leave the cursed house, with
                  his revolver in his right hand ready, hammer up.
               Stevens peered out into the road first to see if any one might chance to be about,
                  and finding all 
                     quiete
                     quiet
                   the two then set forward on their return.
               We say on their return, for Stevens dictated the policy that it would be safest to
                  go straight back to his house from where they could set fourth instantly for Camp
                  Douglass and seek the protection of General Conner.
               "Now, John," said the brave Stevens, "the deed is done. It's certain death if we
                  are caught, I have four ponies, we must mount and be off. And ride as you never
                  rode before. I'll guide you for I know every step of the road. To Conner's Camp!
                  that's our word. You get Ella roused up now, and I'll have the ponies ready in two
                  snaps of a beaver trap.
               Harris was too much excited to trust himself either to do anything or even to
                  talk; so he followed his friend's advice, and in half an hour after the fugitives
                  were on the outskirts of Salt Lake City, riding for the mountains. Harris carried
                  Ella in front of him, and Stevens led the two extra ponies.
               When they began to ascend the steep rocky paths up the Wasatch, they were obliged
                  to move at a very moderate pace indeed, which was exceedingly worrying to Harris.
                  But Stevens philosophically consoled him with the remark:
               "There's one thing certain, John, if the Danites are as mad as I think they are
                  when they find their brother dead, and us gone, they'll ride their
                  ponies just about as hard as we have rode ours; and so, you see, when they go to
                  climbing after us up here, they won't get along any faster than we are doing
                  ourselves. And consequently without some accident or trouble happens to us ahead
                  they won't have much show for catching us."
               By this time Ella had fully recovered from her insensibility and was riding one of
                  the horses, a rather dangerous thing, for she was but a poor equestrienne,
                  especially when the way led close by the yawning edge of a precipice down which a
                  stumble or faulty step would have hurled her into a frightful abyss. Obeying
                  Stevens' advice she let go of the reins entirely and clung to the pony's mane,
                  always shutting her eyes tightly when she came to any of the particularly
                  dangerous spots.
               
               About half way up to the place where the Federal Camp was located, the pony on
                  which Stevens was mounted gave out, and could go no farther. Here was a dilemma
                  that would have proved fatal to the whole party under the guidance of most any
                  other man except Stevens. As the animal sank under him that redoubtable fellow
                  conceived a brilliant stratagem. The path here led close to the edge of a terrible
                  precipice. Stevens, by the exertion of great physical strength, dragged the dying
                  pony forward at least ten paces nearer to a jutting rock, and then taking out his
                  knife opened the artery behind the animal's ear. And as the blood gushed out upon
                  the ground he toppled the dying pony over into the abyss below.
               "Now then, John," said he, "we'll fool the Danites so that they'll be sure to turn
                  back when they come to this place. You and Ella get down off the ponies, then turn
                  their heads towards home, and start them back down the mountain."
               Hardly knowing why, but having every confidence in the judgment of their friend,
                  Harris and Ella dismounted, and John turning the ponies round, sent them at a run
                  down the steep narrow road.
               "That's all right!" remarked Stevens. "Now then, Miss Ella," he continued, going
                  to our heroine, "you'll excuse me for appearing to be rude but it's for your own
                  safety."
               Taking hold of her shawl he tore out here and there some small pieces and
                  scattered them about on the ground near the blood. He served his friend John's
                  coat tail and sleeve in the same way, taking care, however, to cut some of these
                  latter pieces through with his knife. He also cut an irregular slice out of the
                  rim of John's felt hat.
               "Now Miss Ella," said he, "have you such a thing as a pocket-handkerchief with
                  your name or initials on it?"
               "Yes, Mr. Stevens," she replied, with a wondering look on her face as she drew
                  forth the white handkerchief, in one corner of which, marked in red cotton, were
                  the words 'E. Young, No. 2.'
               "That'll complete it first rate!" exclaimed Stevens, taking the handkerchief,
                  tearing it a little, and catching it in among the branches of a tough brush
                  growing about a foot below the edge of the precipice. "Come now, and I'll explain
                  as we go along. And meanwhile just make up your minds that you're just as 
                     fafe
                     safe
                   as if you were in Australia."
               The three friends moved quickly off together up the steep path really getting on
                  much faster than their jaded horses could have taken them, and Stevens gave the
                  promised explanation.
               "You see," said he, "that idea popped into my head exactly as if somebody had shot
                  it in with a rifle. Supposing that the Danites pursue us which you can bet they
                  will, they'll halt when they arrive at that spot we have left just behind us.
                  Seeing the blood on the ground and the bits of cloth and frock stuff, and the
                  handkerchief in the bush, they'll argue to themselves that you and I have had an
                  awful fight, for Ella and that one or both of us, or perhaps all three, have gone
                  over the cliff down among the rocks there.
               "Well, so far so good. But they'll want to make sure of it. So, while one or two
                  of them go back and try to get down to hunt the bodies—which they can't do
                  anyhow—some others of them will sneak up in the neighborhood of General Conner's
                  Camp to find out if any of us has survived the awful combat and get up there. Now,
                  then, I don't want you to show yourselves at all at the Camp. There is a little
                  place just above it where you can conceal yourselves for a day or two, while I
                  make arrangements in the Camp to procure an outfit for a journey across the plains
                  till we meet the people who are building the Pacific Rail Road. Once with them you
                  will be all right, and can make your way to the States without much trouble. But
                  remember, if they ascertain that you are in, or have been to Conner's Camp, they
                  will have their infernal Danites after you, who will follow you like blood hounds
                  all over the world if necessary till they get a chance to kill you both.
               "Don't think I am talking for a scare, now. You are both Mormons; but, as true as
                  I am here, you know no more about the secret working of things in Salt Lake City
                  than if you had never seen the place. I know them just like a book. But I don't
                  want to say anything that would hurt your feelings Miss Ella," continued Stevens
                  curbing himself as he remembered the parentage of John's affianced bride, "So
                  we'll drop everything connected with the Mormons except your own safety."
               The ascent grew steeper and steeper as the fugitives pushed on and in fact became 
                     the
                     so
                   difficult that Ella was obliged to lean heavily upon the arms of her two
                  brave companions, who, however, 
                     bone
                     bore
                   her between them with ease as both were sturdy and powerful men.
               After a most fatiguing journey, during which frequent halts were made to give Ella
                  a little rest, the party reached in safety the place of concealment that had been
                  alluded to by Stevens, who at once leaving his companions started over to Camp
                  Douglas to procure the supplies of which he had been speaking.
               He did not return until late in the afternoon and in truth Harris and Ella had
                  begun to have misgivings concerning his safety. But these were all dissipated when
                  they beheld the true, brave man come in sight leading a horse laden with two huge
                  packs, which latter contained an extensive supply of what the old hunter deemed
                  necessary articles for a trip across the prairies.
               "Ha! there you are, all safe, eh!" he exclaimed in a cheery voice, as he strode
                  forward into the presence of the fugitives. "Well, well, we can't go on to night
                  so we'll have to camp right here till daylight in the morning. Lend a hand John on
                  that other 
                     pock
                     pack
                   there. There's a fancy mattrass in there. It's made of India rubber, a
                  long bag, like. You blow it up, turn the
                  screw and there you have a soft mattrass. That's for Miss Ella, for of course she
                  couldn't sleep on the hard ground. Then there's blankets for all of us. Whoa! boy!
                  what are you about! Look John, this pony's rather fresh with his heels, it
                  seems,"
               These words were caused by the horse, which in a mischievous mood kicked out
                  viciously with his hind feet.
               From the two packs it was astonishing how many articles of use, and even luxury,
                  John Harris and his friend Stevens took out, and when all was fixed and the trio
                  sat down, to supper by the fire that Stevens had made in the cave-like recess of
                  their hiding place, Ella was highly delighted, and almost clapped her hands for
                  joy.
               "Why," laughed she, "this is almost as good as a picnic, is it not, John? But Mr.
                  Stevens, you must have spent a great deal of money for all these things. How shall
                  John and I ever repay you?—"
               "Ah, don't go talking that way, Miss Ella!" interrupted Stevens, "or you'll make
                  me feel mean. When John here came and asked me to assist him in obtaining you, and
                  getting you safely out of Utah, I pledged him my word of honor that I would if it
                  cost me my bottom dollar and my life too."
               "Yes, and you have been a noble friend indeed. A man never meets in all his life
                  time more than one or two friends like you," said John as tears of gratitude
                  welled up into his eyes.
               "Well there that's plenty of that now John. Let's change the subject. This is
                  splendid Coffee. Really Miss Ella, when John and you get to housekeeping, I must
                  come and see you if 
                     its
                     it's
                   only to have a drink of good coffee; for you just know how to make the
                  tip-topest coffee I ever drank. I'll thank you for some more of it," handing her
                  his empty tin cup, "And now, John," he continued, addressing our hero, "after we
                  are done our supper you and I must fix up our shooters and bowies, for we may have
                  to use them before we are clear through safe and sound."
               After the meal was finished and while Ella was clearing away the tin dishes and
                  cups—there is no such luxury as crockery on the prairies—the two men employed
                  themselves in examining their weapons and making other necessary preparations for
                  the journey before them. When everything was attended to in this manner, the trio
                  turned in to sleep, or more properly to sleep and watch by turns, excepting of
                  course Ella, who enjoyed a most delightful night's rest. During the first half of
                  the night John stood on Guard, and then woke up Stevens, who watched over his two
                  slumbering friends, until the grey dawn appeared. He did not wake either one of
                  them until he had kindled a warm fire and hung on the Camp kettle filled with
                  water from a near-by spring.
               Ella arose much refreshed, as did also John, and after performing their ablutions;
                  all three busied themselves in making ready a good hearty breakfast, before eating
                  which, however, all joined in a prayer of gratitude and thanksgiving to God who
                  had been so good to them in their sore need.
               Promptly after the morning meal was finished the trio set forth on their long and
                  perilous journey. As they rose over the top of the mountain both Ella and John
                  turned instinctively and gazed away down into the valley, where, seventeen miles
                  distant, lay the Salt Lake City, the sun beaming brightly on its houses and
                  fields, and causing its hundreds of water channels or irrigators to look like
                  bands of burnished silver.
               "Are you sorry to leave it?" asked John Harris of Ella, as he noticed the tears
                  gathering in her eyes.
               "I can scarcely tell you, John, how I feel," was her reply. "When I think of the
                  happy childhood hours I have passed in that lovely spot, it fills me with sorrow.
                  But when I reflect upon my ills and persecutions there, the way you and I have
                  been treated only because we loved each other and did not approve of the
                  wickedness under the guise of religion going on there, I am thrice happy to leave
                  Deseret behind me forever. Farewell father, sisters; I wish you all happiness, but
                  conscience tells me you are in the wrong path, and I leave you all
                  now—forever."
               She gave one final look upon the City of her birth, and then with a resolute
                  manner placed her hand in that of Harris, and suffered him to lead her forward
                  down the mountain.
               When they arrived at Carson House Station the three friends found a train of
                  Mormon emigrants just about to set forth on their way up the Wasatch.
                  Unfortunately the Mormon guide who was with this train of wagons had been a
                  frequent visitor at the house of Ella's father, and when he saw her with Harris
                  and Stevens he fixed his gaze most constantly upon her, and finally asked Stevens
                  who she was.
               The old hunter seeing that everything was in danger of being overthrown, and Ella
                  forced back to Salt Lake City, did not hesitate to disregard all truth as he
                  replied:
               "Oh, why she's my niece and that young man is my nephew. They are returning from
                  California, and I am going back with them to the States. I have been out in these
                  wild parts too long."
               "Strange! strange!" said the guide. "I would be sworn that she was the daughter of
                  Brother Young of Salt Lake."
               "I would like to see that young lady," rejoined Stevens, "You are not the first
                  one who has remarked that resemblance. While we were in Salt Lake City every body
                  took her for Young's daughter. I suppose also the style of her dress helps it a
                  good deal, for when we got to the City we were all of us obliged to get a whole
                  new rig."
               This shrewd and deliberate prevarication saved any further trouble, especially as
                  the Guide's attention was called away at the same juncture to an accident that had 
                     occured
                     occurred
                   to one of the wagons. "Now, then," said Stevens, as the three rode off in
                  the opposite direction to the Mormons on horses which Stevens had bought from the
                  chief teamster of the train, "we had better be making tracks as fast as we can for
                  when that fellow meets the deputation that comes out of the City to welcome the
                  new comers he will be sure to mention the circumstance of this meeting, and then
                  it will be ascertained by the Danites what has really become of us and if they
                  catch us on the open prairie we'll have a rough time of it."
               "Mr. Stevens," said Ella, as the two men were discussing what should be done in
                  case of an attack, "your words have caused me to fully comprehend the situation. I
                  see plainly enough that if you and John were by yourselves you would have no
                  difficulty in escaping. I see that I am a burden on you both. No! no! now hear me
                  out," continued Ella, as both her companions interrupted her with exclamations of
                  negation to her remark, "I know I am, and I intend not to be. So I wish you to
                  give me a pair of revolvers and a bowie knife, and I will show you that if the
                  necessity does come for using them—which God forbid—I will use them well."
               The men looked at each other in silent admiration for a moment at the brave words
                  of Ella, and then Stevens exclaimed, as he seized and shook John Harris' hand.
               "Well, my boy, Miss Ella's worth all the risks you've taken to get her! She's a
                  thousand pound nugget! Now Miss Ella," he turned with beaming eyes upon our
                  heroine, "do you really believe, if those rascals overtook us you could
                  deliberately shoot and cut away at them?"
               The brave girl's face paled perceptibly, as, after a moment's thought she
                  replied:
               "I should be sorry, deeply sorry to take any one's life; but if these enemies of
                  ours should make their appearance at this moment, and the alternative presented
                  itself to me of being forced back to Salt Lake City, and taking life from our
                  assailants, I would not hesitate one moment to do the latter. For go back home
                  alive I never would, God being my helper. You know as well as I do what my doom
                  would be. If I refused to marry—or rather to become the victim of Kimball's base
                  animal passion—I would rather be murdered outright, or I would be driven forth
                  from my father's house to perish in the streets. The Danites would never let me
                  reach the Federal Camp to seek the protection of the United States
                  Government."
               "That's true as Gospel!" said Stevens.
               "I rather think," added John Harris, "that you would not be permitted to leave
                  your father's house alive."
               "Well," said Stevens, undoing one of the packs and taking therefrom a brace of
                  revolvers and a knife, "here are the articles, Miss Ella. I would show you how to
                  use the shooters, but I don't care about firing.
                     Rescue of the fair fugitive from her terrible peril.
                  
                   However, I'll tell you one or two
                  things. In firing bring the pistol up level with your eye; fetch it up steady,
                  keeping your arm straight. Don't bend your elbow nor move your wrist. Shut your
                  left eye and let the right eye look straight along the barrel to the sight piece.
                  Bring this sight piece to a level always with the person's throat you intend to
                  shoot. Then pull instantly. And never fire until your enemy is as near as that
                  bush yonder, which is about fifty feet. If you keep cool and remember these
                  instructions you'll do something worth while with every shot."
               Poor Ella trembled with horror as her friend went through each movement with the
                  deadly precision of a piece of machinery, first slowly and then with lightning
                  like rapidity. But she controlled these emotions completely as she received the
                  weapons and secured them about her ready for instant use.
               All that day and the next the three friends rode eastward without meeting a single
                  human being. On the evening of the second day there occurred one of those
                  accidents with which the prairie traveler is sometimes overtaken. They were just
                  about to camp for the night when suddenly on the horizon there appeared a mass of
                  black clouds.
               "Quick!" exclaimed Stevens as his experienced eye saw the storm, "lie down till it
                  blows over!"
               Scarcely had he uttered the words of warning when there burst upon the devoted
                  friends such a tempest of wind and rain that they were almost suffocated. The
                  worst part of the accident, however, was the stampeding of the horses; who, in
                  their wild terror broke loose from the men and went galloping off at the top of
                  their speed. The storm departed in a very short time, but it left the travelers in
                  a most deplorable condition. Drenched to the skin and hungry, and yet with not a
                  stitch of dry clothing to change, and not a crust of bread, or a biscuit even to
                  assuage their hunger.
               "Well, now," said Stevens after it was all over, "that is just about the worst
                  streak of luck that I ever did see. But there's no use crying about it, we'll have
                  to see if we can't manage to recover those rascally horses drat them. Or perhaps
                  some of the packs have fallen off and we may at least manage to get something to
                  eat. We have an hour at least yet of daylight, so we might as well be stirring
                  ourselves."
               "Very well," assented John, "just tell me what you want done and I'll do it for I
                  know if anything will help us it is your experience in these matters."
               "You speak bravely enough, my boy," replied Stevens. "You've got the right show of
                  spunk. I know a fellow once got into a scrape something like this and he shot
                  himself in despair. But no matter about that, let's get out ourselves if we can.
                  Would you mind being left alone a little, Miss Ella?" asked Stevens turning to our
                  heroine who replied that she would not,
                  in fact that she would do anything that might be necessary to their mutual
                  safety.
               "That's a brave little woman!" exclaimed the hunter. "Well, John, you see the
                  direction the horses took. I don't think they've parted company; though possibly
                  they might. Now I'll go off at about ten degrees to the right and you go ten
                  degrees to the left. We'll each walk half an hour, and then turn round and walk
                  across toward each other. That will bring us together and we can compare notes,
                  and return to Miss Ella. After we turn, each will walk say fifteen minutes. Then
                  each one, after doing this, will caw like a crow. So we shall not lose each
                  other."
               Everything being thus arranged, the two men started out on their search for the
                  run away horses, leaving Ella all alone. On and on each one walked until just as
                  daylight was fading away our heroine lost sight of them entirely in the
                  approaching gloom of evening. To say that she felt lonely would be a weak
                  expression of what she really felt; but she tried very hard to bear up bravely in
                  her desolation. Now and then the death like 
                     stillnes
                     stillness
                   that pervaded the vast plain was broken by the howling of some wild
                  animal roving about in search of prey; or by the shrieking cry of some night bird
                  flapping its ill omened wings between Ella and the glittering stars above. These
                  dreadful sounds terrified the poor fugitive, and she would strain her eyes through
                  the gloom expecting each instant to behold a ravenous bear or pack of famished
                  wolves spring upon her.
               The terror of her situation kept her from falling asleep, though she was very
                  tired, and she held a cocked revolver in each hand ready to defend her life from
                  the savage animals ranging the prairie. Two hours of this awful watch passed away,
                  and still there were no signs of either of the men, and great anxiety seized Ella
                  lest both had been destroyed by the wolves.
               "This is frightful!" she murmured in mental agony as the perspiration poured down
                  her face and her frame trembled like an aspen leaf, from the combined effects of
                  cold and nervousness. "Heaven grant that John and our noble hearted friend
                  Stevens, have met with no accident."
               Fifteen or twenty minutes more passed away, and then suddenly Ella heard the
                  cawing of a crow close at hand. Springing to her feet she called out as loud as
                  she could, and in a few minutes more she was in the arms of John Harris thanking
                  God for his safe return.
               "Has Stevens come back yet, dear?"
               "No, have you not seen him nor heard from him since you left me here?"
               "Not a word nor a sound. I cannot tell what to make of it. I was waiting for him
                  after I had made my second walk; that kept me so long
                  
                     Correct likeness of Mrs. 
                           Harrs
                           Harris
                         the Mormon's daughter, taken after the escape from Utah.
                   away from you darling. When I found he did not come I concluded to
                  return to you at once."
               "You are very good, indeed John," replied Ella as tears of happiness now mingled
                  with those of her grief. "But what in the world can have become of Mr. Stevens? I
                  hope nothing has happened to him."
               "I hardly know what to think about it. We surely cannot have missed each other,
                  for I followed his instructions most implicitly. We will not leave this spot at
                  any rate until morning. He will most likely come in some time during the
                  night."
               Harris and Ella remained in the same place, he watching over her until between one
                  and two o'clock in the night when she awoke and insisted upon his taking some rest
                  until morning. That scene would have been worthy of Raphael's brush. In the dim
                  starlight slumbered the lover while kneeling or standing by him watched the
                  beloved, in truth a guardian angel.
               So thoroughly fatigued was Harris that he did not wake until fully an hour and a
                  half after sun rise. As he roused up and saw how late it was, he sprang to his
                  feet and gently chided Ella for allowing him to slumber so long. Still no sign was
                  there of Stevens' return, and both the wanderers now gave him up as having been
                  killed by wild beasts. Hunger and thirst by this time began to tell terribly on
                  the unfortunate lovers.
               "What do you think it is best to do, dear John?" asked Ella as the two stood
                  gazing at the horizon round them.
               "I was just asking myself that question, my dear; but with no hopes of being able
                  to answer it correctly."
               "Let us kneel down here then, and pray to God," said the noble woman. "He has been
                  most merciful to us, and guided us thus far. Surely He will not now desert us in
                  our time of most direful need."
               "Let us pray."
               Down upon the green carpet of grass, with hands clasped and eyes raised reverently
                  to Heaven, did the lovers kneel, and pour forth their supplications into the
                  Omnipotent Ear that alone could hear them. Both arose with renewed faith, that
                  God, who guided the footsteps of wandering Hagar in the Wilderness, would now
                  guide theirs. And so taking Ella's arm within his own, Harris walked on, ever and
                  anon speaking words of hope and encouragement to the dear girl for whom he had
                  risked so much, and who had risked, and was now suffering so much for him.
               They walked thus two or three miles, when Ella became so faint that she was
                  obliged to sit down. Her protector cheered her in every way his ingenuity could
                  suggest, though his own heart was sinking with despair.
               "My head does ache so, John," said Ella, "I will press it on the ground, it may do
                  it good, and then I can walk better may be."
               As she did so, she suddenly started and listened.
               
               "What's the matter, darling?" exclaimed Harris, in trepidation at the appearance
                  of Ella.
               She did not answer him for a moment, and then springing up, she fired one of her
                  revolvers in the air, and exclaimed with sparkling eyes:
               "Go like a crow! go like a crow, John! Quick!"
               The expression struck Harris so comically that he laughed heartily in spite of the
                  distress of their position. But never-the-less he obeyed Ella's request, and cawed
                  as lustily as his parched throat would allow him, glancing round upon the
                  surrounding country as he did so. We have read of the ecstacy of 
                     beleagured
                     beleaguered
                   garrisons on being rescued by friendly armies, of the great joy of the
                  threatened prisoners of Lucknow, as the shrill pibroch of the advancing
                  Highlanders sent its welcome melody over the hills on which were camped the
                  Sepoys. But we doubt if their happiness exceeded that of our poor lost, starving
                  fugitives as they beheld, like a speck upon the horizon, three horses approaching,
                  led by their friend Stevens.
               "See, dear John!" exclaimed Ella, as tears of great gladness rolled down her pale
                  face, "see how good God is to us! He has not forgotten us. Let us thank him, let
                  us praise Him, let us pour out our humble oblations at His feet, for His mercy
                  endureth forever!"
               The noble, Christian girl took her lover's hand in hers, and both going down upon
                  their knees worshiped God for His goodness to them. When they arose they hastened
                  forward to meet Stevens, and speedily reached him. After an exchange of
                  congratulations, the hunter explained how it was that they had neither seen nor
                  heard from him before. Meanwhile Ella, with happy nimble hands made ready a hearty
                  meal which all three discussed with such a relish as can only be experienced by
                  persons who have passed nearly twenty-four hours on a boundless prairie without
                  bite or sup.
               You see, my young friends," commenced the old hunter, "I had not completed my
                     half hour's walk after you and I started last night, John,
                  when, as I glanced off to my left, I saw all the three horses standing in a bunch,
                  with their heads together like the three wise men of Gotham. Well, I thought to
                  myself, if I fulfil my engagement with John, I may lose the horses. I may lose
                  them even if I can run all the way across to tell John. If I miss communicating
                  with him, he may go wandering about in search of me; and if he does he'll lose not
                  only himself but Ella also; and then old Nick will be to pay and no pitch hot.
                  However, I'll trust to his own common sense, and especially to his—ahem, love for
                  Ella, to turn right square round and make towards her and leave me to look after
                  myself.
               "So off I tramped after the ponies, just about as fast as I could trot, for I was
                  afraid I might lose them if it came dark before I reached them. You see when I got
                  up a little close, I had to be very cautious not to scare the brutes, or off they
                  would have scampered again. However, by good luck as well as good management, I
                  got to them, and made sure of one fellow; because I knew if I got him the others
                  would follow him just like sheep.
               "By this time it was so near dark that I was afraid to start back for fear of
                  missing your trail, so, marking my correct direction on the ground I hoppled the
                  ponies and slept till daylight. Then I started out, and here I am, as you
                  see."
               "How could you trace us so correctly, Mr. Stevens?" asked Ella, in great wonder,
                  "there is nothing on all this vast ocean of grass that I can see to guide
                  you."
               "Ah, my dear innocent girl, us old hunters learn many a sharp thing battling with
                  life in the mountains and prairies. Why if you have lost anything I will guarantee
                  to go back and find it for you, no matter how small. It is experience, or rather
                  sometimes instinct. How does the honey bee, after flying back and forth from
                  flower to flower for miles and miles, at last rise up in the air with his load of
                  honey, and fly straight home; and won't miss it by six inches? You see, when once
                  I found your trail you could not escape me, no matter how crooked you made your
                  walk, nor how far you went out of the straight line of travel. It would be
                  impossible for me to explain this to you in such a way that you would understand
                  it. So you must rest content; and, by the by, you ought to be glad when you think
                  that it is I who was on the trail instead of Indians coming for John's scalp."
               Stevens glanced archly at Harris, and then mischievously at Ella as he said
                  this.
               "That would be no laughing joke!" said John, putting his hand on the top of his
                  head, "I would not care about being barbarized by a savage in that way."
               "Ah, John," remarked Stevens, "by the time they got your hair off it would make no
                  difference to you how you looked, for you would be dead."
               Ella not relishing such a sanguinary conversation, turned the subject into another
                  channel.
               Immediately after the meal was finished the travelers set forward on their
                  journey, with renewed vigor and in high spirits, and made a good distance ere they
                  camped again at night.
               On the next day, they saw four buffaloes, and Stevens rode 
                     of
                     off
                   to see if he could obtain a shot at them. Harris would have liked much
                  to go along with him; but, at the thought of again leaving Ella alone, he
                  restrained his hunting propensities and remained to take care of his affianced
                  bride. Stevens returned after an absence of several hours but had not been
                  successful in his efforts to procure meat, as he could not get near enough to the
                  buffaloes to take a shot at them. He had, however, managed aged to bag a large bird which resembled a turkey,
                  and which under the skill of Ella furnished most delicious repast, leaving some
                  fragments which were carefully wrapped up and carried along. Traveling on the
                  prairies is a wonderful preventive of extravagance in food. When the appetite is
                  satisfied, whatever "cold victuals" may be left over are religiously kept safe for
                  "next camping time."
               When our friends approached the region in which Stevens knew the advance pioneers
                  engaged in constructing the Pacific Railroad were working, they were obliged to be
                  exceedingly cautious and keen-eyed, for fear of encountering any bands of
                  unfriendly savages, who it will be remembered, constantly hovered about the
                  working parties of Railroad men and attacked them whenever an opportunity
                  occurred.
               Happily, however, no Indians chanced to find the fugitives, and they arrived safe
                  and sound at the first Station where they were heartily received and welcomed by
                  the rough but good hearted "pioneer gang" of Railroaders. Miss Ella was the centre
                  of attraction not only on account of her beauty and refinement; but also on
                  account of her being a Mormon, and it would not have been "healthy"
                  as one gigantic fellow remarked, "fur ary Saints to come a Daniting reound arter
                  sich a innocent, purty, pious gal ez Miss Elly. No, not even fur her daddy!"
               This "axe-man," as he stood like a veritable Hercules upon the handle of his
                  ponderous axe at the time that Ella and her two friends took their leave of the
                  Station, said:
               "God bless you, Miss, you've been ez kind ez a Angel to me. I'd a been stuck thar
                  yet of you hadn't come along. Might I jest kiss your hand fur grateful?"
               Ella smiled, and extended her hand, which was admirably beautiful, to the axe-man,
                  who, taking it in his great, horny palm, as tenderly as though he were taking a
                  butterfly, touched his lips reverently upon it and said:
               "Good bye, lady, I hope God'll bless you, and your husband, and your children
                  too."
               Then turning away suddenly he resumed his work with tremendous vigor as though to
                  dissipate some troublesome emotions of the heart. The cause of all this, was that
                  chancing to see the axe-man trying to scrawl a letter home to his mother in New
                  York State, Ella had stepped to him and volunteered to write it for him. She had
                  not only written it, for him; but composed it also, "putting down" as he remarked,
                  "the pootiest kind now things to his mother that he could think well
                  enough, but couldn't git rit down to save his soul."
            
            
               THE DANITES ARE ON TRACK.
               Our friends, even Stevens, now considered all their dangers as past, and they did
                  not therefore travel so rapidly as before. Indeed they lingered purposely on the
                  way as Ella delighted in stopping here and there to admire the scenery, and when
                  they took the cars the road was very often so blocked that they were obliged to
                  lie over sometimes.
               One of these occasions, after a little trip, when they entered the house of
                  entertainment dignified by the name of hotel, they noticed two men gazing at them
                  very intently and conversing with each other. They seemed to have card pictures in
                  their hands and to be comparing these pictures with them. The instant also that
                  these two saw they were noticed by our friends they slipped away into the next
                  room, and when Stevens sprang forward closely followed by John Harris, and looked
                  about the next room they were gone somewhere completely out of sight.
               "That seems very odd, don't it?" said Harris to Stevens as the two hastened back
                  to Ella.
               "That does seem very odd! that does!" replied the old hunter drily.
                  "Don't let on to Miss Ella, but between you and I, I think they're Danites and
                  they're following us up with the intention of murdering us. They've trailed us you
                  may depend all the way from the Wasatch. The villains they're as good as blood
                  hounds."
               "Well, can't we give them the slip and get away to the next Station?" asked
                  Harris.
               "No, not in daytime, that's certain." said Stevens. "We might possibly do it at
                  night. I'll tell you what, you and Ella keep shady up stairs till night and I'll
                  just stay about here and watch their movements if they show themselves again. If
                  the train should be ready before I'll call you at once and we can take the risk.
                  Keep your shooters ready, and if you see anything wrong don't hesitate but draw
                  steady beads and fire quick! Go now, and keep your eyes open."
               At first Harris pondered. He did not, as a brave man, like Stevens to be
                  continually facing alone all the dangers; he felt that he ought to share them with
                  him. But on the other hand Stevens' judgment and experience were far superior to
                  his in such matters; and besides, if both men went, Ella would be unprotected, and
                  she was the object of the solicitude of both; so, with mingled regret and
                  admiration John Harris obeyed his friend, and led Ella away up stairs where both
                  anxiously awaited the appearance of Stevens.
               When he did come which was shortly after night fall, both noticed instantly that
                  he was very pale.
               
               "Give me a chair please, John, and a drink of water. I believe the 
                     scounderel
                     scoundrel
                   cut me after all."
               Scarcely had he sat down ere he slipped from the chair, being too weak to sit up.
                  Quickly John Harris raised him in his arms, and, carrying him to a settee laid him
                  gently upon it.
               "Tell me where you are hurt, Stevens!" said Harris bending over his friend with
                  painful solicitude.
               "Here in the right side," replied the injured man. "There's three or four of the
                  assassins. I saw the two, and was following them round the house. I intended to
                  overhaul them and either scare them off or have a square fight with them. Just as
                  I got near them some one ran up behind me and stabbed me twice. Quick as I could,
                  I out with my bowie and cut this fellow, when some one said close to one.
                     'Remember Dan is a serpent in the path!'
               "The murderers would have got the best of me and killed me on the spot, but just
                  then something alarmed them and they ran away. I felt weak and came into the
                  house; and here I am."
               "Oh, the wretches!" cried John Harris, in a burst of indignation, seizing his
                  revolver, "I'll go out and shoot them in their tracks!"
               "No!" quickly exclaimed Stevens, "stay with me till I die, John. I cannot live
                  long."
               "But I cannot see you butchered like a dog! You, my best friend, and stand sucking
                  my fingers while your murderers are perhaps, aye! no doubt, down stairs."
               "Revenge won't give me fresh life, John! It 
                     won's
                     won't
                   protect Miss Ella!" gasped Stevens. "Do as I tell you, and you will
                  please me much better than if you'd kill fifty Mormon Danites."
               Harris was fain to obey his friend, though his spirit chafed within him for
                  vengeance. At Stevens request he went down and brought up the landlord, to whom
                  Stevens said:
               "Are you an Odd Fellow?"
               "Yes, Sir, I am."
               "John and Ella will you step out of the room a moment, till you are called in
                  again; only for a moment?"
               Ella, who had constantly held Stevens' hand since he came in, went out with
                  Harris. During their short absence Stevens and the landlord had exchanged the
                  necessary signs of Odd Fellowship, and when the lovers re-entered the room, they
                  found the two men like brothers.
               "John and Ella," said 
                     stevens
                     Stevens
                   in a failing voice, "Brother Williams here is a friend you can rely
                  upon. Brother, I wish John Harris and Ella Young, who are fugitives from the
                  Mormons of Salt Lake City, to have all my possessions which I have now about me at
                  your hotel. They will settle with you for all expenses incurred, and I make it my
                  dying request to you to befriend them as you would me and assist them in leaving
                  ing your hotel in such a way that not a living soul in or about the place shall
                  know of their departure."
               "I'll do it, if human wisdom can do it, brother. What can I do for yourself now?
                  There's not such a thing as a Doctor near here."
               "Ah, brother, I am past all Doctor's help. I shall be a dead before an hour more.
                  Don't cry so," continued the dying man, as Ella burst into a torrent of tears and
                  took his hand in hers. "I'm sorry I was so rash but John must be warned by my
                  fate. Remember, John, you may fight honorable enemies, but you can't fight
                  serpents. If you do you'll go under like me. So, if you wish to live and be a
                  protection to Ella here, don't attempt anything rash."
               The three did all in their power to make the dying man as comfortable as possible,
                  and, at his request, Ella prayed a most beautiful and touching prayer. As Stevens
                  had predicted, before an hour more elapsed he was dead.
               Brother Williams, the landlord, fulfilled his promise with the utmost strictness,
                  and so successfully too, that he completely baffled the pursuing Danites. These he
                  would have had arrested; but, that he knew it would be useless as he could not
                  bring any direct testimony against them. Nor would he accept anything extra in the
                  way of remuneration from our friends except their regular bill at his house. The
                  sum of money left them by Stevens was not inconsiderable, for he always carried on
                  his person a very large amount.
               Mr. and Mrs. Harris have since had the body of their friend brought on East,
                  suitably interred, and have put up a handsome monument to his memory which is very
                  dear to them both.
               On arriving at Chicago, John and Ella were joined in the Holy Bonds of Wedlock
                  after suffering untold hardships and perils for Conscience and Love's sake. After
                  residing there a short time deliberating where they should settle down, they
                  decided to buy a little farm in this State and pass the remainder of their lives
                  in peace and happiness. On this farm they now reside. May they live many long and
                  happy years noble examples of purity of life and obedience to God's laws, which
                  are so continually and wickedly violated in Utah the place of Ella's birth and
                  John's adoption. In parting with her subject, Young Mrs. Harris utters these noble
                  Christian words.
               "With my Bible and my dear husband for 
                     companious
                     companions
                   I shall not fail to be happy; oh, as happy as the day is long. Nor shall
                  I fail to pray morning, noon, and night, that my father may yet see the error of
                  his course of life, and repent and be saved, to life eternal."
            
            
            
               LIFE SCENES IN UTAH. HABITS AND WAYS OF THE MORMONS AS DEPICTED IN THE HARRIS
                  NARRATIVE.
               Of all former accounts or pretended Histories of Life among the Mormons in Salt
                  Lake City, one half were written by enthusiastic, bigoted Mormons, and the other
                  half by authors fully as enthusiastic Anti-Mormons. The consequence is, that the
                  latter, dealing in imaginary things, render their so-called narratives 
                     ludicrious
                     ludicrous
                   in the extreme, and in every way offensive to any person of refined
                  feelings; while the former gild their detestable facts and statements in such
                  attractive but false beauty, such dangerous sophistry, and such twisted and
                  distorted Scriptural texts as to lead away thousands of ignorant people into the
                  delusive belief of Mormonism. This plain Narrative deals with facts as they are
                  without coloring, or altering the truth.
               We recollect once asking a working man a few years ago, who was making
                  preparations to embrace Mormonism, and go to Utah, why he wished to be a Mormon.
                  His reply is the whole secret in a nutshell.
               "Ha!" said he, while passion evidently expressed itself in the twinkle that lit up
                  his fishy eyes. "It's just the thing. Out there a chap can have as many
                     wives as he wants." 
               "But how will your wife relish it?"
               "Oh, bother her, I'll teach her not to interfere with my ideas when I get her out
                  to Salt Lake. That's the place, Sir, where we men can make these women folks keep
                  their proper places and mind their own business. Women was made to be the servants
                  of men, and a man ought to have just as many as he can get a hold of."
               "There, there, stop!" we exclaimed, as we turned away from the brutal fellow and
                  left him.
               We pause in this history here, and ask the wife and mother who reads these pages,
                  how would she feel were her husband to bring into her home—that she has perhaps
                  worked hard to help that husband to establish—another woman, and call her his
                  second wife? How would you like to see this husband neglecting you and your lawful
                  children, who are so dear to you, and paying all attention to this second
                     wife, and fondling her children before your eyes? The very thought is
                  maddening to any woman of true womanly instincts. And yet this is the common life
                  in Utah, where a wealthy sinner of such gross immorality as Brigham Young can have
                  as many wives, as he wishes.
               And this brings to notice another fact which shows that there is anything but
                  equality in Mormondom. The men of the poor classes in Utah, having very limited
                  means, cannot afford but one wife, while those of the rich classes
                  have eight, ten, twenty, or, as in Young's case, forty or fifty wives. No, we will
                  not call them wives, for when God the Saviour, in the Holy Book, said: "for this
                  reason shall a man leave mother and father, and shall cling unto his wife, and the
                     two shall be one flesh," He certainly 
                     ment
                     meant
                   that there should not be more than one man and one woman. So that every
                  woman that a man adds to his household after he has already married one wife is
                  not a wife at all. No! no! let us not insult the virtuous women of our land by
                  calling concubines "wives." To go through a form of marriage in taking these
                  women, a man only adds blasphemy to the crime of bigamy or polygamy.
               It will doubtless be asked if this polygamy is so dreadful, how is it that the
                  women in Utah don't make any trouble about it themselves? The reply can be
                  promptly given. There are two classes of women in Utah; the first is those who
                  have been born and raised there and know of no other condition of life, but that
                  to which they have been brought up, the same as the semisavage women of Asia and
                  Africa. The other class is those women who have emigrated from other parts of the
                  world to Utah, or rather been taken there by their husbands. These unfortunates,
                  when they do find out the kind of life they are really to lead in the land of the
                  Saints, invariably resist, and make as much trouble as possible. But it is
                  useless. They cannot get away; for, if they attempted to escape, their bodies
                  would be found lifeless in some secluded spot by the roadside. Besides, they
                  generally have children, and affection for these, and the hope that some day the
                  children may get away, induce the broken hearted, but loving mothers to toil on,
                  and endure very often the most cruel neglect and brutal treatment. For when a man
                  takes a fancy to another woman, God help his poor wife! she has worse than a dog's
                  life then.
               Until lately also we may say that Utah was as completely isolated as an island in
                  the 
                     misdt
                     midst
                   of a boundless ocean; for, besides the immense stretch of prairies and
                  plains it was hemmed in by the towering Rocky Mountains. These two physical facts,
                  with the vigilance of the Danites explain, why no Mormon has hardly ever escaped
                  from that pest hole of immorality Salt Lake City.
            
            
               THE PROPHET'S BLOCK.
               The Prophet, of Mormonism, the Head and Front of everything in Salt Lake City is
                  strangely shrewd and persistantly faithful to his own worldly interests,
                  considering what a boast he makes of his spiritual gifts and duties. Brigham from
                  the first moment he 
                     nad
                     and
                   his benighted followers ers
                  established themselves in Utah, secured to himself the exclusive possession of all
                  the great industries of the settlement. Brigham was the merchant of
                  Salt Lake City. Brigham monopolized the whole carrying or transportation business
                  to A No. One, Brigham appropriated to himself, the whole control of the Canyoos in
                  which grew the only timber of the region. It is a galling bit of history, but
                  never-the-less well authenticated, that when, during the administration of
                  Buchanan, the United States Army was ordered to make its campaign, in Utah against
                  the Mormons, it was obliged to buy every inch of timber it used, besides other
                  supplies, from this admirable Mormon Mogul, who thereby made clear to his own
                  private pocket between two and three hundred thousand dollars of the nation's
                  money.
               Let 
                     
                     us
                   examine one of the valuable estates of this man, and while we do so let
                  us not forget that hundreds of poor people, who had been deluded to emigrate to
                  Utah from Europe by promises of continual work and happiness in the new Zion, are
                  actually starving half the time.
               The city of Salt Lake is laid out in "blocks" by very wide streets all of which
                  cross each other at right angles, thus converting the city into the most regular
                  squares imaginable, so that the word block is every way most appropriate. The
                  Prophet's block which is ten acres in size is completely surrounded by a high wall
                  composed of pebble stones mixed with mortar with round tower like buttresses at
                  regular intervals. The principal entrances of this wall are on the South side, and
                  before all of them are ranges of posts with connecting chains. The principal
                  building within this enclosure is that occupied by Mrs. Young, the
                     original wife of Brigham,*
                  *
                   and is called "The Lion House." It is situated in the Eastern part of the
                  Block and is so-called because immediately over the fine pillared portico is a
                  magnificent lion cut from a solid block of lime-stone. [The sculptor, a European
                  of fine education, who embraced Mormonism in a moment of religious excitement,
                  after residing awhile in Salt Lake, became so disgusted with the Concubinage
                  amongst the people, that he apostacised, and was cut off from the Church. What
                  ever became of him is not known except perhaps to the Danites.]
               This princely mansion is built somewhat in the Oriental India style, is two
                  stories high with a grand balcony and observatory, and is covered externally with
                  a mastic coating of peculiar beauty of color. It consumed a full year in building,
                  cost at least sixty five thousand dollars, and is the most superb structure
                  perhaps west of the Missouri river. A little further to the East of this palace is
                  "The White House." In this edifice the Prophet used to reside but has given it up
                  to his son Joseph—who is, as the carpenter says, a chip of the old block.
               
                  
                  *Even among the Mormons only the first wife is called by that title. All the
                     subsequently "sealed" or married women are called "Sisters." And the
                     children of any of these Sisters are designated as "Sister Mary's or Sister
                     Jane's children" as the case may be. How horrible must such a condition be
                     to any woman having the least spirit or pride about her.
               
               On the West of the Lion House is a building or rather we may say a suite of
                  buildings, containing first a public office, where the business of Church and
                  State is attended to, and then the private office, rooms of clerks and so
                  forth.
               And now still further West, comes the feature—the most repulsive one by the by—of
                  the "Block." It is the "Bee House," so called from the fact that immediately in
                  front of the main door is a Bee Hive, cut most beautifully in stone, by the same
                  sculptor already referred to, and whose name was William Ward. This building is
                  very long, running from North to South. It is two stories high, but exceedingly
                  plain, bearing no comparison with the palace in which the original
                  Mrs. Young resides. The walls are washed over with a yellowish whitewash. The
                  lower or first story windows, which are oval in shape, are heavily guarded with
                  iron bars. The upper or second story windows are narrow, square on the top and
                  bottom, and each one is shaded as it were by a small, double, angular gable,
                  shaped like a letter 'A' without the cross line in the middle.
               This "Bee House" is the residence of the "Sisters," or "Plurality Wives," as they
                  are called, of the Prophet. Each wife has a bed-room, sitting-room and closet,
                  furnished very plainly. Few books are allowed, and those few are all of religious
                  character, all inculcating the tenets of Joe Smith, and specially inculcating the
                  doctrine of implicit obedience on he part of wives to their husband!
               
               These Sisters or Plurality Wives are not allowed to eat the bread of idleness, for
                  each of them has steady work and plenty of it, which she must do. The
                  faces of these women are never seen at the windows, nor are their voices ever
                  heard by any one outside of the house. Their lives are actually lives of
                  imprisonment, and the strictest discipline, which indeed must be essential if any
                  one of them has the last spark of human nature about her.
               Let us imagine, if we can, the feelings of one of these Sisters, when, for
                  instance, she is called upon to make a handsome robe for the original
                  wife over in the Lion-House; and while doing so is constantly contemplating her
                  own humble garments. Let us portray, if we can, her emotions when told to work
                  upon some rich dress for one of the original wife's daughters over in
                  the grand Lion House, and while doing so, feels the hot tears of envy and
                  disappointment from her own daughter's eyes falling upon her cheek. Paint in your
                  mind, oh, happy wife, you who read these pages, paint in your mind, if you can,
                  the death bed of one of these Sisters, one of these Plurality Wives. There she
                  lies on her humble bed in her little cramped up chamber, with a narrow slit of a
                  window like that of a prison cell. She burns with fever; but no dear husband's hand dips the cooling towel in icy water
                  and places it with the kisses of sorrowing love upon her brow. His hand does not
                  smooth back the damp hair once so luxuriant, his hand does not soften the hard,
                  tossed pillow that she may lie easier, his strong arm does not raise her up 
                     aud
                     and
                   turn her gently into a position that may make her a little more
                  comfortable. Ah! God help her, no! for her husband's kisses are being lavished
                  upon some new brow, his hand is toying with the tresses of the last new toy, his
                  arm is clasped round the new form, his deceitful kisses are being showered on the
                  lips of the last new wife!
               
               "Oh," murmurs the dying woman, "if he would only come and speak to me, just a few
                  words, only a word before I am gone! It is so hard to die alone!"
               Ah! Angels of Mercy, hasten down for the sufferer. Ease her, if you can, from the
                  pangs of anguish that wing her heart now, as she knows that the voice which should
                  be uttering words of consolation in her dulling ear, is pouring forth passionate,
                  lustful endearments in the ear of the fresh new wife.
               On the extreme west of the Block is the Tithing House and Deseret Store. Hither
                  all the faithful among the Saints bring tithes of their incomes either in kind or
                  money, which is used by Brigham and his twelve Apostles as they may judge fit for
                  the "good of Zion." Doubtless, as these shrewd gentlemen are extremely wealthy,
                  they have peculiar ideas of what the "good of Zion" consists. Another fact is
                  beyond peradventure, which is, that hundreds and perhaps thousands of
                  "Missionaries" are supported out of these tithes, who like deadly serpents crawl
                  about through Europe and other lands, instilling into unthinking minds the
                  pernicious doctrines of Mormonism. Only lately nearly two hundred of these deadly
                  reptiles arrived at Omaha. They were appointed by Brigham Young "to go forth into
                  the Gentile World on a Mission of Two Years." Several of them were detailed to
                  operate in this region, and they are even now at their dark, immoral work. Not
                  only are these men, missionaries; but they are also spies, noticing every event
                  that takes place, and instantly forwarding full information thereof to their
                  master at Salt Lake.
               The rest of the Prophet's block is devoted, with the exception of here and there
                  an out building, to the cultivation of fruits, vegetables, and vines. Of the
                  latter there are many varieties from which excellent wine is manufactured. This is
                  only one of the numerous and highly valuable lots that the Prophet owns, and in
                  this acquisition of worldly wealth he is closely imitated by most of his favored
                  Elders and Assistants.
               One fact which clearly impressed itself upon Young and his co-adjutors in the very
                  beginning of the settlement of Salt Lake, was, that they must depend for the great
                  bulk of any future increase of their population and strength, to emigration from
                  those localities in Europe and Asia where the most ignorant and unlettered nations
                  resided, and also from the factory districts of large European Cities.
                  Consequently one of the first applications of the Tithing funds was to establish
                  what was called the "Perpetual Emigration Fund Company," consisting of course of
                  Brigham Young and twelve others. Now then, under instructions from the 
                     heirarchy
                     hierarchy
                  , a Missionary seeing a stout, robust animal of a peasant, with perhaps a
                  wife just like himself, works himself easily into the fellow's good graces, and
                  then fills him with such stupendous, glorious ideas of Utah that he is wild to go
                  to the City of the Saints. But he has not enough money. He is in despair; but only
                  for a moment, as the Missionary instantly offers to advance him all the money he
                  wants, on the very reasonable condition that he works it out in the Tithing House
                  at Salt Lake. The contract is at once made, and the peasant with his wife, boys,
                  and quite likely three or four buxom, rosy faced 
                     girl
                     girls
                  , sets forth in high glee for "The City of Zion on The Mountains."
               On his arrival he and his family are taken in charge, a dwelling assigned them,
                  and he goes to work for the Chief Saints at wages, and under rules which amount to
                  little less than slavery. His boys are told off to be brought up in the house of
                  some prosperous Saint who has plenty of work that he wishes to get done
                  exceedingly cheap, while the girls, striking the fancy of some wealthy influential
                  villain, he at once has a "revelation from Heaven," to take the girls as wives,
                  and accordingly marries them after the Mormon forms.
               The father and mother, even if they desired to, dare not resist; for if they do,
                  it is apostacy, and they are cut off from the Church and "delivered over to the
                  buffetings of Satan." To the Gentile ear thousands of miles away from Utah, this
                  may seem of no account; but when a Mormon is thus excommunicated, no other Mormon
                  dare be seen even speaking to him or her. They are regarded with much the same
                  loathing that a leper is looked upon in Asiatic countries, and so they are forced,
                  either to submit to the Church authorities—when they are fully forgiven and
                  restored to the Church—or to attempt to escape, in which latter case they are
                  turned over to the Danites, who make a summary end of them either with knife or
                  ballot.
               We are aware the Mormons fiercely deny the existence of the Danites or Avenging
                  Angels, but there are far too many well authentic facts about these Assassins'
                  doings to permit of a doubt as to their reality. One instance we will give.
               In the year 1853 Captain James Gunnison and a party of men were surveying or
                  rather exploring in the region of Nicollet on Servier River, some thirty miles
                  South of Nephi City. At that time the Mormon Apostles were bitterly opposed to all
                  efforts at explorations for roads between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, and
                  also dreaded exposures of their peculiar doings at Salt Lake. At the point we have
                  named, the party were suddenly attacked
                  by white Indians, that is white men disguised like savages, and eight of them
                  deliberately murdered, the rest barely escaping, and recognizing some of the
                  murderers afterwards at Salt Lake as Mormons.
            
            
               THE MOUNTAIN MEADOW MASSACRE.
               Another well authenticated tragedy by the Mormon ruffians, done by "Counsel," as
                  an act is done, when ordered by the 
                     heirarchy
                     hierarchy
                  .
               On September fifth, 1857, there was a large emigrant train proceeding across the
                  plains to California with horses, mules, and wagons, conveying large stores of
                  clothing and valuable articles. When nearing a spring at the Western end of the
                  Mountain Meadow Valley, they were suddenly attacked by a 
                     miced
                     mixed
                   party of whites and Savages. The caravan at once formed in a hallow
                  square, their wagons being used as breast works, after being hastily filled with
                  earth.
               Finding themselves unable to capture their victims by storm, the marauders had
                  recourse the following stratagem:
               A rivulet of water ran through the spot on which the emigrants had intrenched
                  themselves. One half of the beseigers made a fierce onslaught or rather feint upon
                  the front of the defensive line, while the other half making a detour, came round
                  in the rear, and cut off the stream of water completely. They then returned to
                  their villainous companions and continued the attack with all their force.
               Very soon the intolerable thirst of the emigrants caused them to offer to
                  surrender, whereupon the Mormon Elders, Isaac C. Haight and John D. Lee came
                  forward with a white flag, and talked so much like Christians, as to persuade the
                  unfortunate emigrants, that if they would give up their arms they should be safely
                  forwarded to Panther Creek and Cedar City. Being completely deceived by the
                  blood-thirsty hypocrites, the emigrants consented, and gave all their weapons up
                  to the Mormons, who then said they could go to the 
                     sprang
                     spring
                   and slake their thirst. Of course all rushed forward, men, women and
                  children, for the water, to relieve their parched and swollen mouths.
               They had scarcely started, when, at a signal from Haight and his comrade, the
                  demons deliberately fired volley after volley of rifle balls in among the doomed
                  emigrants, cutting them down by scores. Instantly, amidst screams, and groans, and
                  yells, and shouts, the poor miserable wretches were writhing in their death
                  agonies. Strong, brave men begged the inhuman monsters to spare their wives and
                  little ones. But they were shot or bowie knifed even while pleading.
               Either Lee or Haight; it is not certain which, was in the act of killing a man,
                  when his daughter, an innocent pretty child of fifteen, fell on her knees and
                  implored him not to murder her dear papa. He glanced at the girl, and then, with a
                  fiendish chuckle seized her up in his arms, 
                     hore
                     bore
                   her to a thicket close at hand, and after adding a nameless crime to his
                  account, he deliberately dragged his almost insensible victim back to where her
                  father's dead body lay, cut her throat from ear to ear, and then threw her down
                  upon the still quivering form of the slaughtered parent. And yet these are the
                  fiends who defy and insult our Great Government, who boast that they can buy 
                     of
                     off
                   any legislative enemies who may appear against them at Washington.
                  Certainly it seems to be true to judge from the emasculation of Mr. Cullom's bill
                  in the National House of Representatives. As he introduced it, it was effective,
                  and would have cut the horrid cancer clean from the face of our land. But as it
                  stands now, it is no more terrible to the Mormons than a lion with his claws and
                  teeth all pulled out. Mr. Cullom deserves the gratitude and admiration not only of
                  his own people of the great State of Illinois—the State which rooted out the
                  Prophet, Joe Smith, and his filthy, blasphemous gang from Nauvoo—but also of every
                  man, woman and child in our whole Country. Those Congressmen who amended Mr.
                  Cullom's bill have done us a great wrong, whether from good motives or bad
                  ones.
               Their excuse is that the bill is too rough on the Mormons, and would
                  cause them to make great bloodshed. Let them go home to their wives and daughters
                  and tell them such silly excuses. Let them go to their constituents
                  and tell them they were afraid to vote for Cullom's bill, because it
                  would involve the bloody resistance of a few Mormons. And when they have done
                  this, let them brand themselves moral cowards, and give place to men,
                     men, who will fear not to drive the ploughshare so deep through
                  Utah, that no second furrow will be needed to destroy the monster, polygamy
                  forever.
               Or, if polygamy has ceased to be a crime, and become a virtue, then let our
                  Executives turn loose a flood of clemency. Let General Grant and the Governors of
                  all our States, hasten to unbar the cell door of every bigamist who is now
                  expiating that worst of crimes, the deceiving of virtuous, loving, trusting
                  women.
               In the name of thirty five millions of people whose common sentiment is thoroughly
                  opposed to the vile practices in Utah, we call upon Congress to say to these
                  polygamists of Salt Lake City:
               "We wish you no ill, we wish you every happiness and success; but, from this day
                  forth, there must be no polygamy in the United States. You must set free your
                  plurality wives, and stick to the one original wife, whoever she may
                  be.
               "If you resist, we shall order out twenty thousand volunteers to force you to obey
                  the laws. If those are not enough, we shall call out fifty thousand sand, or a hundred thousand. If that will not do,
                  we will roll in upon you a million of men to crush and scourge you to
                  obedience!"
               This horrid butchery was committed in revenge for the murder of Parley Pratt, a
                  Mormon Missionary, the particulars of which are as follows. In the Spring of 1857
                  this Pratt, passing through Arkansas, saw a handsome woman named McLean, the wife
                  of Hestor McLean, Esq. one of the best citizens of the State. Watching his
                  opportunities, the reptile Saint visited Mrs. McLean on occasions when her husband
                  was absent and so beguiled her judgment as to cause her to embrace Mormonism. The
                  next thing was that he had carried her away with him and she had become one of his
                     wives.
               Of course when McLean found out how shamefully he had been dishonored he became
                  almost insane with rage, armed himself, mounted a fleet horse, and swearing
                  vengeance set off in pursuit of Pratt. But missing his road in his fury he did not
                  find the villain. Meantime Pratt had been arrested and put on trial; but was
                  acquitted for lack of testimony. It so chanced that McLean returned home about the
                  time or rather just after the 
                     aquittal
                     acquittal
                   of the prisoner whose friends provided him with a horse and started him
                  off for a safe place. This evident injustice so enraged McLean's friends that they
                  offered to assist the husband in his search for vengeance. Accordingly every road
                  was tracked by them and word soon brought to McLean of where he could find Pratt.
                  He at once rode away after the fiend, and, overtaking him, fired his revolver at
                  him, but missed him. Then drawing his bowie knife, he rushed upon him and stabbed
                  him several times. Pratt fell from his horse, and McLean, seeing that he was not
                  dead, fired his revolver at him shooting him in the breast. The Avenger then rode
                  home. Pratt was carried by his friends in the vicinity to a farmer's house close
                  by, where the infatuated Mrs. McLean actually waited upon him till he died, which
                  was two hours later. Until this time Mrs. McLean had been a loving, devoted, good
                  wife to her husband, sustaining a spotless reputation. For this act of terrible
                  retribution on the part of the Gentile McLean which three out of four would have
                  justified under the circumstances, the Saints of Salt Lake deliberately butchered
                  two hundred men, women and children, not one of whom had ever done them an injury.
                  The Mormon Elders have never ceased to assert that Parley Pratt did perfectly
                  right. That "if he could win to himself the wife of a Gentile for whom he
                     felt an affinity it was perfectly lawful for him to do so."
               Oh, men of honor, whether your position be high or low, poor or rich, let us ask
                  you, what think you of such serpents as Pratt entering your now happy household
                  and pouring such venom into the ears and hearts of your wives and your 
                     dauthters
                     daughters
                  , as ruined poor McLean's home and blighted him and his children? Think
                  of it, several of just such villains, under the guise of religion, are at this
                  very time operating in our midst in this very place. Picture to yourselves, you
                  returning to your homes after a hard day's work to find your wife carried away to
                  grace the home of some scoundrel Mormon; or your daughters gone off for the same
                  ungodly purpose? Then ask yourselves: Shall such a people be suffered by Congress
                  to go on and increase in their crime? Aye! not only suffered to go on; but,
                  actually encouraged to proceed with their immorality untrammelled.
               When it was announced to Brigham Young that a new Governor was coming to Utah,
                  appointed by General Grant he remarked:
               "Ah, well, I have no doubt Mr. Schaffer will make as good a Governor as any of the
                  rest. He shall be welcome here, and will find us a very pleasant people, provided
                  he understands how to mind his own business, and does not 
                     to
                     
                   interfere with matters that do not concern any body but ourselves."
               We hardly think there could be a more positive defiance of the power of our
                  Government than such language as that. Perhaps another remark of the Prophet, in
                  this connection will be plain to some minds. Says he: "We want no war, and will
                  not have any;" (if it can be helped) "but I shall not hesitate to protect any one,
                  no matter how humble may be his station, who shall be attacked in any way in the
                  rights which are legally his."
               Now then suppose the Governor attempts to enforce any law against polygamy. His
                  authority is immediately resisted, and the Mormons protected by Brigham Young,
                  defies him. He calls on the territorial forces, the militia; but they will not
                  obey, for they are Mormons and acknowledge no ruler but Brigham Young. Governor
                  Schaffer turns to the National Government and asks to be aided by the bayonet in
                  enforcing the law. But for fear the Mormons will make resistance, Congress has
                  said the military arm of the 
                     Goverment
                     Government
                   shall not be used to compel submission. Then Governor Schaffer and the
                  National Government become butts for the Saints' ridicule, and the whole nation
                  becomes a laughing stock for the rest of the world. And deservedly so.
               For sometime past it is said that the Mormon 
                     Heirarchy
                     Hierarchy
                   have been maturing plans whereby to conduct a war with the United
                  States. It is asserted that they have spies and emissaries at work in every Navy
                  Yard and Arsenal and gun manufactory in the Country, who at a given signal will in
                  case of Expeditions being ordered against Utah, burn or otherwise disable all such
                  stations. Besides this the ablest and shrewdest diplomates of Zion have been
                  dispatched to Washington with unlimited supplies of gold to watch Congressmen and
                  corrupt them so as to prevent any hostile measures being passed upon the Polygamy
                  Question.
               It is a well settled scientific fact that the gulches in the Mountains of Salt
                  Lake region are the richest gold bearing localities on the Continent. It is
                  another equally well settled fact, that, from the very first settlement of Utah by Young and his followers, the
                  Prophet forbade under the strictest penalties, any search being made for the
                  precious metals. But it seems that since then certain high dignitaries of Salt
                  Lake City have been mining these 
                     placers
                     places
                  , which were forbidden to the common herd of Saints, thereby adding
                  untold wealth to their own private purses.
               Among the most notable of these forbidden Canyons is the Great Cottonwood Canyon.
                  The entrance to this gigantic fissure as it were is exceedingly narrow, and both
                  walls on either side are perfectly inaccessible. There is therefore not the
                  slightest possibility of getting into the Canyon except by the regular entrance,
                  and this is most zealously guarded by a picked body of armed guards, who,
                  themselves are never permitted to go further in than a certain distance. Up the
                  sides of this Canyon stretch immense forests of trees, which are very valuable for
                  lumber, all of which, as we have before remarked Brother Brigham monopolizes.
                  Beneath the surface of those everlasting bills the earth teems with the richest
                  gold and silver ores, and doubtless this accounts for the strictness with which
                  the Canyon is guarded.
            
            
               GENERAL POLICY OF THE MORMON LEADERS.
               For many years the Mormon leaders have been preparing to meet the opposition which
                  the nation is now earnestly making against their further progress and increase.
                  Every act of theirs has had a direct ultimate bearing on this object. Their
                  missions in foreign lands have been multiplied a hundred fold and well supplied
                  with money so as to send huge streams of ignorant and bigoted emigrants into Utah.
                  On arriving there the largest portions of these have been divided in regular
                  certain numbers and settled at certain spots throughout the territory of Utah,
                  previously and carefully selected for the purpose by Brigham Young and his
                  co-adjutors. About this plan the intelligent observer cannot fail to notice a
                  piece of far sighted strategy. If these emigrants had all been
                  settled in Salt Lake City, that delectable spot would have increased really more
                  rapidly than it could have been governed properly. Consequently the astute leaders
                  selected throughout the immense Valley what they called "Outposts of Zion."
               Now then, whenever a little colony of new arrivals came in and were detailed to
                  one of these outposts, they were cunningly instructed that the Gentiles were their
                  mortal enemies, in fact were Moabites whom they, like the children of Israel were
                  in duty bound unto the Lord to deceive and when the "proper time arrived,
                     destroy from out of the land." The building up a new "Little Zion," as
                  it were, was put into their care, with every incentive to do their very best for
                  success. The natural result is Utah has become figuratively, a chess-board on
                  which Young and his cunning satellites have so placed their "pieces" as to take
                  off all enterprising Gentiles who might chance to establish themselves in the
                  territory.
               In a military point of view wherever the Gentile settles he is constantly
                  surrounded by bigoted Mormons. If he adopt views friendly to the ways of the
                  Saints and makes himself agreeable, or in their own way of expressing it, "knows
                  how to mind his own business," he can get along very well. But if he dares to
                  express any disapproval of polygamy, tithing, or any other habits of the Mormons,
                  he is promptly "frozen out," which means that no Mormon will have
                  anything to do with him, will buy nothing from him, except his weapons, and will
                  sell him nothing whatever. The result is that he must clear out, cross the
                  mountains towards California, or towards the States. If he go quietly, he is even
                  assisted kindly, but if he attempts to make any trouble the Danites take him in
                  charge, and he promptly dies, and if necessary his whole family.
               By a strict adherence to this policy the Mormon leaders have filled the 
                     elligible
                     eligible
                   parts of the whole territory with their faithful adherents, and we say
                  it without fear of contradiction, that it is utterly impossible for Gentiles to
                  settle in the Valley of Utah except they are friendly to the Mormon
                  creed and polygamy. Every season brings in thousands of fresh Converts from Europe
                  and Asia, so that the "Outposts of Zion" will in a short time be so numerous, and
                  all be so thoroughly controlled and handled by Brigham Young and his co-adjutors
                  as to preclude even the barest possibility of Gentiles ever getting a peaceable
                  foothold in the territory.
               Another purely military precaution taken by the Mormons, is in establishing a road
                  down the Valley, by way of the Colorado, to the Gulf of California. This road
                  would be entirely under Mormon Control as the rugged mountains on either side make
                  it safe from enemies. Many will laugh at the idea; but certain it is, that the
                  Mormon leaders argue in this way. "We can stave off actual hostilities for many
                  long years, and when they do come, we will have a sea port at the end of our
                  Colorado route. The United States cannot attack us except in front. By that time
                  too, from our own mines we shall have gold enough to purchase a large navy. The
                  great bulk of our Converts are English, and when the War does come these will
                  claim the protection of the British Flag, which cannot be refused, as they have
                  never become naturalized to the American Government. England would like nothing
                  better than to break up the United States, and would speedily interfere and give
                  us help. Then comes a war between the two Countries, in which the United States
                  must be whipped, for two reasons; first, by that time we shall, by our
                  Missionaries and preachers, have them divided among themselves, one half favoring
                  the idea that we ought not to be interfered with, and only the other half against
                  us. And second, such a war would cost them more money than they could raise; especially with their
                  present heavy war debt hanging over them."
               Very many, even of the intelligent part of the Community believe that the
                  completion of the Pacific Railroad would be the death blow of Mormonism. But that
                  is a grave error for the following reasons. The passes across the ranges of
                  mountains on either side of the Salt Lake Valley can be seized at any moment by
                  the Mormons. Through these passes the railroad goes; and once they are taken by
                  the Mormons and fortified—a very easy matter to do under existing
                  circumstances—the road is cut most effectually. Not only that, but the whole of
                  the road between the mountains, together with its engines, rolling stock, immense
                  shops and material, comes into the hands of the Mormons all in complete order for
                  transportation of troops from one side of the Valley to the other. This explains,
                  the fact why, after every sort of opposition to the road, the Mormons suddenly not
                  only approved of its completion, but rendered every aid in their power to assist
                  it. The next step was to build a railroad of their own south from
                     Ogden, through which town the Pacific Road runs, all the way down
                  to Salt Lake City. This new road will soon be continued still further South.
               Now, then let us see what occurs when the Mormon war does come—as come it
                  must.—The handful of U.S. Soldiers at Camp Floyd are overpowered without a shot
                  being fired; the Mormon army, under the command of such men as General Wells—a
                  thorough soldier—is divided into two parts; one Army Corps marches up to the
                  Eastern passes and, in a week's time, has defensive works that a well ordered army
                  of fifty thousand veterans could not take for years. The same movement could be
                  made upon the Western Mountain passes, and lo! and behold! the United States is
                  cut in two, as completely as though a gigantic, two edged sword was passed through
                  its vitals. Then we have a bigoted, desperate people, at least two hundred
                  thousand strong, entrenched in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, and in possession
                  of a magnificent railroad which has been built at the Nation's expense. The
                  position itself is impregnable, and in the manner in which the Mormons would
                  defend it, it could not be taken by the combined armies of the whole world, with
                  all the mechanical appliances of War in less than twenty years. And when we add to
                  this, that the complications which Brigham Young could undoubtedly provoke between
                  England and the United States, would just as certainly bring on a war with that
                     Country,*
                   the cool, thinking mind can see that we could not succeed against them,
                  with all our resources and with all our legions of brave men.
               Doubtless this picture may not please the ideas of those, who though patriotic,
                  still lose sight of facts. They may say it is overdrawn. But let us coolly examine
                  the true situation, and the facilities of the Mormons for such an event—which may
                  God in His all wise providence prevent.
               
                  
                  *Fully three fourths of the Mormon population of Utah are made up of English
                     people of the most ignorant and prejudiced character who hate the United
                     States instinctively, and have never renounced their allegiance to the
                     British crown.
               
               First, then, the Mormons have in their Valley all the cereals especially wheat and
                  oats in most luxuriant abundance and finest quality. In their Canyons abundance of
                  timber; in these same Canyons abundance of coal and iron, and more than abundance
                  of gold and silver ores, far richer than those of California. Their pastures
                  support the most magnificent sheep and oxen, furnishing meat, leather and wool in
                  abundance. In certain Mountain caves they have inexhaustible deposits of
                  saltpetre, [for gunpowder.] In other parts of the valley they have immense
                  deposits of soda, and salaratus, and limestone, and sand. And of that essential
                  article to a people at war, salt, the Mormons have in their Great
                  Salt Lake an endless supply. In brief they have everything that even the most
                  luxuriant nations could desire, all within the Salt Lake Valley. So that they
                  could not be starved out for want of any article necessary to the best living. In
                  the next place all these treasures are protected, as previously remarked, on both
                  sides by the towering Rocky Mountains. And thirdly they have two splendid railways
                     safe from all peril of being cut at any time, and equally splendid
                  telegraph lines. Fourthly, and most important of all, every one of these resources
                  and appliances of warfare, are under the sole control of an autocrat as despotic
                  as the Emperor of Russia. In fact an autocrat more powerful 
                     that
                     than
                   that potentate, for while the latter rules by force alone,
                  various peoples of distinct, and distracting nationalities and temperaments,
                  Brigham Young rules his followers through their superstition and peculiar
                  religious belief. Consequently the whole people being taught from their childhood
                  to look upon him as a Saint, would obey him implicitly with the blind and bitter
                  zeal of idolaters for a sacred High priest of their temple. In his promptness and
                  extreme severity of punishment for any apostacy, as he cunningly calls the
                  slightest objection or resistance to his will, he has never had an equal, much
                  less a superior. He would order his dearest daughter or son to execution the
                  instant that he deemed it necessary. Mercy could gain no hearing with him.
               The military discipline of the Mormons has also been lost sight of by nearly
                  everybody. But as early as 1842 the "Nauvoo Legion," which is the title of the
                  whole Mormon army, numbered over 2000 perfectly drilled men, well armed and well
                  officered. And in 1860 it numbered over ten thousand. At the breaking out of our
                  own late war the Mormons were in ecstacies because they thought that the Country
                  would go to pieces and they—the Saints—would become the great nation of the
                  continent.
               During the war, and ever since, the Rulers of the Mormons have enlisted every man
                  between the ages of sixteen and sixty, and at any moment this people can put in
                  the field an army of at least thirty thousand fully equipped soldiers
                  ably commanded.
               
               The only point in which they are 
                     difficient
                     deficient
                   is heavy artillery; but even at this time they are commencing the
                  manufacture of cannon. When this is accomplished they can then await the course of
                  events with every confidence in their own power. And the longer we delay taking
                  possession of the Rocky Mountain passes, and fortifying them, and the longer we
                  delay enforcing the laws against polygamy, the stronger and more confident are the
                  Mormons becoming. We warn the nation, that they do not know, nor can they
                  appreciate, the real peril in which we stand to day from this powerful body of
                  fanatic and immoral Mormons in the midst of our land.
               Suppose the Governor of Pennsylvania, or New York or Illinois, or Massachusetts,
                  was to adopt polygamy and then issue a decree in favor of it. Suppose also that
                  the people of either or all these States were to adopt the views of the Governor,
                  and tell the United States Government that it might send officers there, if they
                     "would mind their own business," and not interfere with polygamy.
                  How long would it be ere the rest of the Country would be in arms, and the
                  violators of the common law crushed out and punished. And not one of those States,
                  nor all of them combined, could make one hundredth portion of the resistance to
                  the Government that the Mormons of Salt Lake can.
               In Order to delay action on Mr. Cullom's bill, and also to make it appear before
                  the world that they are an oppressed people, the leaders of the Mormons have been
                  arranging mass meetings throughout the whole territory to protest against any
                  action of Congress. This protest, carefully worded, has been gotten up by such men
                  as Orson Pratt—who is doubtless a relative of the Parley Pratt already mentioned
                  in the Mrs. McLean affair—and duly forwarded to the U. S. Senate and House of
                  Representatives.
               We believe it to be our solemn duty to call on the Government to take instant
                  military precautions to keep possession of the Passes of the Rocky Mountains
                  through which the Pacific Railroad runs. And we as solemnly call upon Congress to
                  dally or trifle no longer with the monster of polygamy, but to crush it out with
                  an iron hand. With equal solemnity and earnestness, we call upon the press, from
                  boundary to boundary of our land, to raise their potential voices, and rouse our
                  people from the lethargy into which they seem to have fallen; and to warn them of
                  the volcano which is almost ready to burst beneath their feet. Husbands! brothers!
                  fathers! Mothers! sisters! we call on you all to join us in combatting this
                  horrible monster of vice and immorality; to help us to exterminate the awful
                  Iniquity, which, disguising its hideous self in pretended religion, would make
                  worse than harlots of the women of our land. Let us be up and doing, in the name
                  of Morality and in the name of Heaven!
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
