
    ----CITATION----
        Asheton, Francis.. A Modern Cressida; and, On the Church Steps .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5670
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               A MODERN CRESSIDA, 
             
            BY FRANCIS ASHETON;
             
            AND 
             
               ON THE CHURCH STEPS, 
             
            BY SARAH C. HALLOWELL.
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA 
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
             
            1875. 
            PRICE 40 CENTS. 
          
          
             
            J. B. Lippincott & Co.'s Recent Publications. 
             
               CHARMING WORKS OF ROMANCE. 
               HULDA.  
                     A Novel. After the German of FANNY LEWALD. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER, Translator of "Only a Girl," etc. Fifth Edition. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     "One of the most healthful, fresh, delightful, and artistically-constructed novels that has appeared this season."-Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
                      
                     "A book thoroughly German in style and sentiment, and yet one which will command the universal sympathy of all classes of readers."-Boston Globe.
                      
                  
                
               THE SECOND WIFE.  
                     A Novel. After the German of E. MARLITT, author of "The Old Mam'selle's Secret," etc. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER. Eighth Edition. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     "A book charmingly written and delightfully translated; absorbing and fascinating from beginning to end." 
                     "The 'Second Wife' is at once an artistic literary labor and a charmingly interesting novel."-Baltimore Saturday Night.
                      
                  
                
             
             
               NARRATIVE AND ADVENTURE. 
               ROME AS IT IS.  
                     Being Reminiscences of a Visit to the "City of the Csars." By Mrs. H. R. SCOTT, author of "Day Dawn in Africa," etc. With Illustrations. 12mo. Extra cloth. $1.50. 
                     "Her style is vivid, natural, and appreciative; and her book, which is quite fully illustrated, will make a very agreeable traveling companion for persons who intend to visit Rome, and will be read with interest also by those who have no hope of doing so."-Boston Journal.
                      
                     "This is a minute description of the Eternal City. It is exhaustive and spirited. Instead of the dry details of the guide-book order, we are treated to a vivid delineation of Rome, its relics, grand structures, and people."-Chicago Evening Journal.
                      
                  
                
               THE MAMBI-LAND;  
                     Or, Adventures of a Herald Correspondent in Cuba. By JAMES J. O'KELLY. With Frontispiece. 12mo. Extra cloth. $1.75. 
                     "This volume furnishes more exact and practical information about the people of Cuba at the present day than any book extant."-Boston Literary World.
                      
                     "The narrative of his experience in Cuba is full of interest, a record which, for freshness of description and accuracy of detail, must long remain without a rival."-New York Tribune.
                      
                     "The book is timely and entertaining, and will be read with the absorbing interest of a thrilling work of fiction, at the same time that the reader has the satisfaction of knowing that the persons who engage his attention or arouse his sympathy are real, and the events narrated are true."-Boston Journal.
                      
                  
                
             
             
               BIOGRAPHY AND HISTORY. 
               MEMOIRS OF J. Q. ADAMS.  
                     Memoirs of John Quincy Adams, comprising portions of his Diary from 1795 to 1848. Edited by Hon. CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS. 8vo. With Portrait. Vols. I. and II. now ready. Extra cloth. Each $5.00. 
                     "Contains more matter of historical interest than the memoir of any other public man extant."-Baltimore American.
                      
                     "For the student of American history it is a really valuable contribution. It gives us, moreover, a near and clear view of the very able, upright, and resolute man, and of a person whose political influence, if not wide, was strongly felt over a great period of his country's existence."-N. Y. Evening Post.
                      
                  
                
               PRESCOTT'S PERU.  
                     History of the Conquest of Peru. With a Preliminary View of the Civilization of the Incas. By W. H. PRESCOTT. Entirely New Edition, with the Author's Latest Corrections and Additions. Edited by J. FOSTER KIRK. Forming the third work of the New Edition of Prescott's Works. Complete in two volumes. 12mo. Extra cloth, $2.25; sheep, $2.75; half calf, gilt, $4.50 per volume. 
                     "Perfect in all that pertains to the making of a book."-New York Christian Union.
                      
                  
                
             
             
               SCIENCE AND LITERATURE. 
               THE UNIVERSE AND THE COMING TRANSITS.  
                     Presenting Researches Into, and New Views Respecting, the Constitution of the Heavens; together with an Investigation of the Conditions of the Coming Transits of Venus, recently confirmed by a unanimous Vote of the Chief Astronomers of Great Britain. By RICHARD A. PROCTOR, B. A. (Cambridge), Honorary Fellow of King's College, London. Illustrated by 23 Charts (4 colored), including two specimens from the author's Chart of 324,000 Stars. 8vo. Fine cloth. $6.00. 
                     "The work is profusely illustrated with elaborate diagrams, and is certainly the ablest and most comprehensive astronomical treatise that has appeared for many years."-Phila. Evening Telegraph.
                      
                  
                
               THE CONCORDANCE TO SHAKESPEARE'S POEMS.  
                     An Index to Every Word Therein Contained. By Mrs. HORACE HOWARD FURNESS. 8vo. With the Poems appended. Extra cloth. $4.00. 
                     "It will be as valuable to readers of Shakespeare as is Mrs. Mary Cowden Clarke's Concordance to the Dramas. At the end of the volume the entire poems are also printed, which will add greatly to the value of the work. The patience, care, and industry necessary to the preparation of such a book are worthy of the highest praise; and the volume shows that Mrs. Furness is as devoted a Shakespearean as is her husband, whose variorum edition of the plays has won the admiration of scholars and critics wherever the volumes issued have been received."-Phila. Evening Bulletin.
                      
                  
                
             
            *** For sale by Booksellers generally, or will be sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of the price by the Publishers. 
             
          
          
             
            
                
                  "-HE THREW HIMSELF DOWN UNDER A TREE AND LAY MOTIONLESS, HIS FACE BURIED IN HIS HANDS, TILL THE TIME SHOULD PASS."-Page 42. 
               
             
          
          
             
               A MODERN CRESSIDA, 
             
            BY FRANCIS ASHETON;
             
            AND 
             
               ON THE CHURCH STEPS, 
             
            BY SARAH C. HALLOWELL.
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA 
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
             
            1875. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
          
       
      
         
            A modern Cressida / 
             
                
               A MODERN CRESSIDA. 
                
                   
                     
                        If beauty have a soul, this is not she.
                      
                     -TROILUS AND CRESSIDA. 
                   
                
                
                  PART I. 
                   
                     CHAPTER I. 
                     "SO you really mean that I must go away from everything I care for, and bury myself alive, Doctor Wadsworth?" 
                     "That is just what I mean, Mrs. Penrhyn. You must spend the summer very quietly, without any excitement." 
                     "But why can't you give me some tremendously powerful tonic, instead of making me lie by for three months-feed me on phosphates and iodides and quinine?" 
                     "What would you say of an engineer, my dear madam, who, when he saw that some part of the machine he was called on to inspect was almost worn out, should advise the fireman to pile in fuel and crowd the pressure of steam, by way of remedy for imperfect working?" 
                     "Very silly, indeed, but not a fair analogy. That is the trouble with you modern doctors: you are so afraid of the old exploded error that divorced body and soul that you identify them, and as a natural sequence undertake to prescribe for our moral as well as our physical ailments. Now, I know very well that you are going to tell me that you can't practically separate the workings of one part of my nature from another-that, theoretically, it's a convenience to have a nomenclature, so as to prevent confusion of ideas, but that you must prescribe for me as a harmonious, interdependent whole. Is not that it?" 
                     "What do you want to make of me?" said Doctor Wadsworth, smiling in spite of himself at the half-petulant pleasantry of her manner. 
                     "I want to make use of you. There now! I knew you would be angry. Why, what is more noble than to be useful, doctor? I thought the reason why modern science spurned ancient metaphysics and morals was because they were of no use. What I want of a doctor is this. But first listen to what I don't want. I don't want you to concern yourself with what is 'good for me' or 'bad for me.' You doctors all trench too much on our individuality-you are as bad in your way to us patients as ever the old priesthood was to the laity. I know what I want: I don't want to have the days of my life indefinitely prolonged; I don't want to be made superior to stimulants or tonics; I don't care particularly to be made to emulate a milkmaid in her hours or complexion; but I want to spend more than I have-to live beyond my income; and I want all your resources brought out to enable me to live as I wish, without encroaching on my capital. Yes, you shake your head, you look grave, you can't take the responsibility. What right have you to assume it? say I. I don't want you to make of me, body and soul, the nearest approach to your ideal of which my nature is capable. I want you to perform a service for me-" 
                     She stopped abruptly, and looked at him as if for an answer. Unconsciously to herself, there had been a tinge of haughtiness in her manner, and Doctor Wadsworth had felt it. A slight flush came to his cheek. 
                     "I understand," he said. "You would like to bring back the leech of centuries ago-a servant, almost a slave, possessing treasures of knowledge, secrets of healing, precious drugs, prompt to cure or to destroy, but all held at the pleasure of his master, of his employer; as ready to sell a deadly poison as to apply a healing salve-a mere tool, without one sentiment or aspiration worthy of the noble profession he disgraced and desecrated." 
                     "No, no! I did not mean anything so-" 
                     She hesitated for a word, and Doctor Wadsworth supplied her with one-"'So base,' you would say. My dear lady, I'm not angry with you, but I cannot help seeing that you would have breathed quite freely in a century when arbitrary power could subordinate men's minds and consciences to the execution of its will. It seems to me that although you accuse me of encroaching on your individuality, I should have none left of my own if I obeyed your wishes." 
                     "Well," she said, "I did not mean to be so overbearing, but I do rebel against being exiled this summer. Come now, doctor, can't you patch me up and let me go?" 
                     He shook his head gravely. "No," he said. "I can and will give you tonics, but rest is what you want. You have been a spendthrift of your estates, to borrow your own simile, and must be content to let the rents accumulate before you spend them, and the trees grow before you cut them again." 
                     "If it must be, it must be, then, but I really feel as if rest would be extinction," she said with a weary, impatient sigh. 
                     "That is quite natural," answered he composedly: "you must sink lower before you can rise at all." 
                     "When must I begin my idyl?" she said with a sudden transition of mood. 
                     "Your 'idyl!' Is it possible that you have not understood me better than that? There can be no idyl, my dear madam," he went on, laughing, but still seriously, "without a shepherd, and a shepherd I forbid. In plain words, you must live without excitement this summer, or you will-not die, but go to pieces." 
                     "I have it!" she exclaimed. "I will go to my cousin Mary's, up in the Hampshire hills. I will yield an uncompromising obedience to your orders. They shall be obeyed in spirit and in letter." 
                     "That is right! You will remember all I said before you favored me with that invective against modern medicine; and, God bless you, my dear child! you will go next week?" 
                     "Yes, yes," she replied, "and thank you, dear doctor, and forgive me if I was impertinent this morning." 
                     Doctor Wadsworth descended the stairs and got into his carriage at the door. Edith Penrhyn stood at the window watching him, and as his handsome iron-gray head disappeared she turned from the window with a sigh. "How old he is growing!" she said to herself. "I have too few friends-real friends-to have any of them grow old." She threw herself languidly on a lounge and fell into a reverie. 
                     Growing old! Old age was the great horror of her life. She did not dread death, but to be old!-it seemed to embody and involve all her antipathies and fears. Born with a peculiar vitality of nature, anything that suggested decay or loss of power-power to feel, to enjoy, ay, even to suffer-seemed to be the most terrible of evils. Pagan to the core of her heart, all good things were ever young to her: the wild freshness of morning was indeed worth all the rest of the day, and she sowed no seed that was to lie fallow till the day was far spent, and then germinate and bear fruit to gladden the sunset of life. The flowers of her life were as fragile and as fragrant as the products of a forcing-house. The sight of a gray hair among her abundant golden-brown tresses saddened her: the mere suggestion of calm and repose, the accompaniments of maturity, seemed to irk her. The lines, 
                            
                              To die when all the foam is up, 
                              The bright wine sparkling high, 
                           
                         expressed her feeling; and she spent herself in all ways, never admitting the possibility of her strength and vitality deserting her before mere existence should cease. So, when Doctor Wadsworth, whom she had called in perforce, driven to the measure by a sense of absolute nervous exhaustion, frankly told her, not that she would kill herself, but that she would be good for nothing, she was appalled: anything rather than that. She felt indifferent about death, as most people of strong vitality and high courage do, partly from their impossibility of realizing the meaning of the word, and partly from their habit of mind toward all danger; but this breaking down terrified her. The petulant defiance of the tone she had assumed in the conversation just chronicled was but to mask her real feeling: she was ready to do anything rather than cease to be herself. A life of thought, of contemplation, of repose, seemed to her intolerable, the humdrum was her bte noire: constant excitement, waves of emotion and sensation breaking over her, one after another, with so short a space between them that the partial ebb could not be termed reaction, each, as it rolled back, being caught up by a fresh incoming rush, rolling on and over her again-this was her ideal of existence. Yes, she would go to the country, would forswear all excitement, would be an oyster, a vegetable, for three months, and then again be herself. 
                     She turned from the window as a knock came at the door. "Come in," she said with a sense of relief at the prospect of distraction. It was a servant with a card. She could not repress a start and a slight flush as she read the name. She had not looked for any one at such an early hour. For a moment she hesitated; then, "Ask him up here," she said, and as the servant left the room to obey the order she drew her graceful morning-wrapper about her and passed through a door at the side which led into her dressing-room. While she put herself into more fitting trim to receive the stranger who was now awaiting her, she wondered much why he had come. 
                     Geoffrey Marston was a young man whose acquaintance she had made not many evenings before at a small evening-party, and of whom she had heard more than once as a rising man of science. But neither what she had heard nor the one evening she had spent in his society had in any way interested or attracted her. The only feeling with which he had inspired her was a curious and rather unpleasant consciousness of being understood or divined by him. Not that he seemed desirous of prying into her emotions or detecting the springs of her actions. She was not sure that he was conscious of the effect he produced upon her; but so it had been, not only on the evening when he had talked to her, but twice besides, when he had been near her at the theatre, she had felt his presence, and experienced the same sense of annoyance as one might feel if suddenly aware of an invisible, intangible presence floating near one and reading one's words in a clearer light than could those mere human beings to whom they were spoken. 
                     As Edith finished the last touches of her toilette, however, she said to herself, "It was absurd, wild imagination, probably the result of this over-excited, nervous state I've been in. He has come now to call on me. Heaven knows there is nothing surprising in a man's doing that, and, like most of these scientific people, he does not know that the hour is uncanonical." So she expelled from her mind the fantastic idea which had crept into it, and entered the room in which Mr. Marston awaited her. 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER II. 
                     HE was a slight, well-made man, with great natural distinction of manner and bearing, and with an odd directness, a sort of intensity in his way of saying and doing even small things, that produced the most unconventional effect. He rose, bowed as she entered, but quietly and distantly, and without that orthodox smile of greeting which is the mechanical grace of society. Edith was a little embarrassed. Her first banished fancy rushed back in full force, and for a moment she could not find words. 
                     He spoke first: "I know this is a very great presumption, Mrs. Penrhyn, on my part, to have come two hours before I was entitled to ring your bell, and when you were sure to be in and at home, but I have an excuse." He paused, and then as he looked at her a smile came like a sudden light over his face. "It is a very good one, if you will only look at it in the full light of truth. I wanted to see you, and this was my only way of making sure of doing so." 
                     "You should have taken your chances, Mr. Marston," she said gayly, but with a meaning in her tone. 
                     "Yes," he said, "I should have done so, but I could not run the risk-I could not afford it. There are moments in every man's life, Mrs. Penrhyn, when he comes into collision with the conventionalities of life, the laws of society, and must either break them or risk being broken in keeping them. As long as I can run with my Juggernaut, I shall be content, but I could never throw myself before it and be mangled. I haven't the faith for that; so, as I go to-morrow to South America for six months, and this was my only chance of seeing you before I left, I chose to make the chance a certainty." 
                     Edith grew more embarrassed, accustomed though she was to the society of men, and habitually cool and self-possessed when homage the most ardent and devoted was offered her. She now seemed incapable of mounting the conventional dais from which she mentally queened it over her admirers. His manner was not that of a lover, nor indeed was there anything in what he said that might not pass current as the ordinary coin of society, and yet the whole conversation was in some way lifted out of the ordinary atmosphere. They two were together, and he was talking to her, as unswayed by accidents of time and place and all outside things as if they were disembodied spirits. There are some men and women who have this power of bringing whomever they approach into direct contact with their own nature: they seem gifted with a special force of penetration, and one always feels that in whatever relation one meets them it is sustained by one's real self toward an equally real individuality on the other side. So Marston made Edith feel, and his quiet intensity of manner added to the feeling. 
                     He had been silent after his last words, and the silence grew oppressive. She must speak: "I am sorry you are going," she said, "but I should have seen nothing of you, for I go away myself to the country, for three months, in a week's time." 
                     "That is good-you need it," he said. "But pardon me: I think you are not sorry, but secretly glad, to get rid of me. I think I oppress you." 
                     "That could hardly be," she said with a little haughtiness, "as I have seen you but once, and you do not know me, or I you, at all well." 
                     He fixed his dark eyes on hers as she finished her sentence, the last words of which came slowly, and looked at her with an expression mingled of scrutiny and longing. Her eyes fell before his. She raised them with an effort, and said lightly, "You look as if I had said something that was not true." 
                     "So you have," he said rising and standing before her: "I do know you: no one has ever known you half so well as I. And yet, Mrs. Penrhyn," he went on, "you need not shrink from me when I say I know you, for I say too-and with greater truth, if that might be-that no one has ever loved you as I love you. Nay, do not rise: I did not mean to startle you, but I must speak. I did not come here with the faintest idea of affecting you by anything I might say; but I may never return from South America, and I saw no reason for denying myself the expression of what is so strong within me. I do not think I need apologize to you for what I am about to say. Had I any idea of asking aught of you, that might seem presumptuous and need excuse, but nothing could be farther from my thoughts. I only ask you to listen to me while, instead of talking about the weather or the opera, I lay bare my heart to you. It will not bore you nearly so much as if I paid you an ordinary morning call." 
                     He said this so composedly that the strangeness of his avowal ceased to agitate her, and she replied with equal self-possession: "Certainly, you are quite right. I have always thought that the most commonplace nature could make its story interesting if it told the literal truth concerning it. Pray go on." 
                     He drew a chair a little nearer to her, yet not very near, and sat down, saying, "I cannot see your face so far away-I am near-sighted, you know-and I want to see you while I talk." She bowed a mute comprehending assent, and he went on: "I don't purpose to tell you the story of my life, nor do I mean to detail it since I met you, although that is only two weeks ago, and seems to me now the beginning of life. I am a firm believer in natural affinities, and a disbeliever in the possibility of a love existing in its highest manifestation and greatest intensity between beings devoid of this affinity, or only possessing it in a slight degree. I do not think any one can ever give another anything that does not belong to that other. He may withhold to an unlimited degree: his power of imparting is limited by the corresponding power of reception in the other. All relations, all real relations in life, are based on this principle, although it is almost always dishonored, violated and disowned. Nevertheless, being a law, it governs and controls, although unrecognized. One only cares for people for one of two reasons: because they can give you something which you want or take something from you which you wish to give. All love means simply this, and is greater or less in proportion as the giving or taking is great, but perfect love is when one meets a creature to whom one could give all and from whom one desires all. One may touch a hundred souls at a hundred points and call it love, but it is always partial and imperfect, liable to be supplanted. Yet these imperfect affinities are all most people know of love, and, knowing no better, they call a part by the name of the whole, and demand the allegiance of the whole nature to a feeling which belongs to and feeds but a small part of it. You and I, unlike as we are, have this in common, that we touch many natures at many points, and that we in our hearts and souls never pretend to give to any one that which does not belong to him. Is not this so?" 
                     "Yes," she said. 
                     "I knew it when I saw you," he went on. "I felt it-that you would never give to any one that which was not his; and when I knew at the same moment that I loved you perfectly, with my whole being-that nothing short of an entire self-surrender and entire possession could satisfy me-I trembled at the vision of torment and bliss, both uncertain, both possible, that rose before me. This is what I came to say: that I loved you as no one has ever loved you-that I shall try to get from you what I desire. If I preserve my will intact, I will never take aught but the whole from you-never supply, as so many men must have done, the need of one mood, the food for one hunger. Of your being I will have all, or die unsatisfied. My hope lies in the consciousness I have of divining your nature. I understand you, at least, better than you have ever been understood, and it is you that I love, not a part of you-not an ideal hung upon you-not what you represent to me, but you, with every imperfection-well, every blot; and nothing can change my love. Loyalty, as generally meant, is something I am too proud to accept from any woman. I would only have of you that which is my own. I give you my whole self because it is yours, not because you attract me and I aim at an ideal feeling. Idealism is the reverse of this, which is pure reality. I am yours. I need no lofty resolution, no mail of virtue and faith, to guard the heart that beats for you. No woman can tempt me: my love is perfectly yours. Now I shall go. When I am gone you will do as you have done, as you are doing-drain men dry, distill the one drop of their souls you can assimilate; but that is not love, nor do you think it so. One man may feed your senses, another your intellect, and they may lay their hearts and lives at your feet. I make no sacrifice: I obey the law of my nature; and I love you. But I must wait. I had a wish to say this to you, and you understand me, I know, even as I understand you. You understand-do you not?-now what it was made you conscious that I was not like others to you? It was the force of my whole being setting toward you. No wonder you felt swayed from your orbit." 
                     He rose and stood before her once more. She had sat as if spellbound while he spoke, and now rose too, as if instinctively. Her hand sought a flower she had fastened in her bosom. "No," he said, "I will not take it: tout ou rien must be my motto here. The first and only gift or grace I will take from you shall be yourself." 
                     "Those are proud words," she said, half piqued, half pleased, and, in spite of herself, moved. 
                     "They are true ones," he answered. "You will give away many flowers before I see you again: that which you can give to others is not mine, and I want my own. If you are ever mine, flowers and all other graces will float on the current of our mighty love, and cover it with beauty; but what is a flower now to me, or even a caress? Much as a copper coin to a man asking a crown." 
                     "Then you will not touch my hand in farewell?" she said, unable to resist the impulse to control and conquer-an impulse that was excited in her by every nature with which she came into the slightest contact. 
                     He looked down at the slender white fingers she held out to him and caressed them with his eyes, then looked up and said abruptly, "I may write to you once while I am away. If I do not die, you will see me again in six months from now, and some day I shall ask for your love. To-day I have told you only that you have mine." 
                     He was gone, and she was alone before her parted lips could frame a sentence to detain him. 
                     "Doctor Wadsworth would be in despair," she murmured to herself. "I was to begin vegetating to-day, and that man has given me a new sense of life. How much strength he has! How strange it was! I could not have spoken-something seemed to hold me-and yet-" 
                     She ceased to speak, threw herself into a chair and half closed her eyes in a sort of dream. Nothing seemed to live in her but a sense of his words and their intensity of meaning. Her intellect was lulled to sleep: she subjected them to no analytical process. They floated through her mind in a kind of golden mist, and she sat thus for some minutes, feeling as she thought she could never feel again-simply content to live, and full of a subdued sense of intensified vitality. Presently she rose and walked slowly toward her room. As she passed a mirror which was set into the wall she paused and looked at the reflection of her face and figure. Long and earnestly did she gaze into the glass. A vague memory had risen from its depths, and she strove to grasp it. What did her face and reflection there remind her of? Suddenly she knew. A triumphant glow spread over face and throat, and she exclaimed, "It is myself of ten years ago. I remember it all: it is youth come back again. Good Heavens! did that man bring it?" 
                     The face she saw was no more beautiful than the face she had seen an hour before, but the look in the eyes was different, and like a flash had it been revealed to her that she had seen it in her own face one day, ten years before, when she was a girl of eighteen, and before her brief married life had made a gulf between her and her youth. She had never studied herself much in a glass, her vanity taking the more sensitive and subtle form of seeing herself in others' eyes; and on that day, so long ago, she had chanced, on returning from a ride on horseback, bright and flushed with exercise, to pass the glass. She had stopped then and caught her own face in the glass, and the picture had registered itself, and then been forgotten until that moment. The girl of eighteen seemed there again-the same bright, sanguine look, beaming with life and ardor. 
                     "Is that the medicine I want?" she murmured as she looked, and even as she spoke the flush and light seemed to die out of her face, and the cold-cut beauty of twenty-eight stood before her. She turned hastily away from the glass and went into her dressing-room: "I must begin to wind up my threads at once, or I shall leave a tangled web behind me. 'Six months,' he said: very well, then I will put him out of my head for the present." 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER III. 
                     "VERY well, then, old fellow, you'll call for me at three o'clock?" 
                      
                     "Sharp three: good-bye!" 
                     "By the way, Raymond, what will you do without Mrs. Penrhyn at Newport this summer? I hear she is to start for the country the day after to-morrow." 
                     "Did you, indeed? I've not made my summer plans yet," was Raymond's rejoinder, 
                     He stopped an instant to knock the ashes from his cigar, and then sauntered off with so tranquil an indolence of manner that no one knowing the tumult roused within him by the words just spoken could have denied him the admiration that perfect self-command always wins. "Going away? In two days?" His heart gave one great leap, and then seemed to drop like lead and lie quite still and heavy. He had not seen her for a week. Their relations had always been marked by caprice on her part and an affected independence on his, which was principally evidenced by his absenting himself from her presence for a week or two at a time, and then abruptly returning to his accustomed attitude of devotion. They had known each other about a year, and from the first had known each other well. 
                     Thornton Raymond was a man of very positive personal attraction-not an attraction of a very high order, and by no means of a complex character. The emotions he inspired were not difficult to analyze, nor did they possess much variety. Had Edith Penrhyn's mood not chanced to have been what it was the evening she made his acquaintance, their intimacy would never have existed; but he stumbled upon her when the only door of her nature to which he possessed the "sesame" stood ajar, and falling instantly under her influence, open to her at all points, he had contrived, between his own limited attraction for her and her unbounded one for him, to link himself to her. 
                     So a strange relation grew up between them, and every day it became more entirely his life and less of hers. Edith Penrhyn was a woman who differed widely from most women, in that she respected and regarded one part of her nature as much as another, and no man could have more frankly admitted to himself the existence of impulses, and regarded their mere existence as self-justifying, than she did. She had felt the power of Raymond's intense masculinity, and enjoyed the sensation it gave her as a novel one. Before she had come in contact with him she had never seen an equal amount of masculine vigor combined with so much personal beauty; and the virility of most men has something repulsive for a woman of what Mephistopheles calls "supersensuous refinement." Edith, whose senses were by nature and cultivation exquisitely sensitive, and who like most women received no direct sense emotions, but filtered them all through the medium of her imagination, had been attracted by Raymond because he was possessed of that indefinite and intangible reality, physical attraction; and she had yielded to this attraction unhesitatingly at first, but her feeling speedily ran its course, and smouldered almost to ashes, while his gained ground daily. At times his early power over her would reassert itself partially, and in those moods she still without hesitation took from him what she wanted, and gave him what she had to give. Is there any better definition of flirting than to say that it consists in taking the inch you want from any one, and leaving the ell that is offered? The supreme egotism that governed Edith's relations to men had some excuse, or, if not excuse, a raison d'tre, in her past life. She had set out in life believing in all men and things. Ten years of association with them had destroyed her faith, and she had gradually formed a sort of semi-materialistic, semi-mystic creed, and in a very great degree she lived by it. All that Marston had said to her about love she believed as fully as he did, and what he had said of her habit of taking that which was hers from every one was entirely true. 
                     For several weeks Thornton and herself had scarcely seen each other: he had been unlucky in his attempts to see her, and she had rather foiled than aided them; of which he had a dim consciousness. He had known nothing of her interview with Doctor Wadsworth, nor even dreamed of her sudden determination to go to the country, and Harrison's words had been a shock to him. He walked to his rooms and speedily scribbled a note to his friend postponing their engagement to another day. He took a grim satisfaction in so doing, and thereby inflicting a species of punishment for the disagreeable news that Harrison had told him. This done, he looked at his watch and saw that he should be at Mrs. Penrhyn's door in the very nick of time and find her at breakfast. Thither he went, and was admitted into her morning-room, which was littered with boxes, bags and packages of all kinds: the very air seemed full of bustle and preparation for a journey. At her little writing-table sat Edith, looking rather pale and tired, and with an expression of "all work and no play" about her that at another time and in another mood would have made him smile, so foreign was it to her usual air of luxurious, insouciante ease. She had a pile of notes before her, and a half-written one in front of her. 
                     She raised her eyes as he entered and smiled: "Oh, you have come? Wait one moment: I must finish this note." Then followed five minutes of enforced silence on his part and rapid scribbling on hers: the note was done. "Ring the bell, please," she said in a quick, business-like sort of way. The servant entered: "Take these notes, Williamson, and have the answers waited for." The door closed behind the man, and she rose from her chair and throwing herself on the sofa, said, "Now, Mr. Raymond, make your excuses: I am ready to receive them." 
                     One of the most curious things about the relations of these two people was the great disadvantage at which Thornton always found himself with Edith, except at those times and moments, which were becoming rarer and rarer, when he could regain the position from which alone his nature swayed hers. His breeding and intellect were both of a different order from hers, and he never felt on an equality with her except when she was not her individual self, but a woman merely and dominated by the idea of sex. Their worlds of thought and feeling were utterly diverse, and connected only by the narrow slippery plank of sensuous sympathy. So, now when she took a tone which he felt to be unfair, and in his heart resented as such, he yet knew not how to parry her thrust and refuse the position in which she placed him. All he could find to say was, rather awkwardly, "I don't know what you mean. I did not know that you were going away. I came the moment I heard of it." 
                     "Well, you find me bristling with preparations. The servants cannot understand my doing everything in such a hurry-I who have always said that Le Roi Fainant was my prototype. So, in order to convince them, I have taken matters into my own hands, and am almost ready to start." 
                     "Where are you going?" he said with an assumption of calmness, secretly resentful of her indifferent manner. 
                     "To the country," she answered, laughing. 
                     "That every one knew this morning-at least every one but me. I learned it by an accident." 
                     "I don't know how it is," she replied carelessly: "every one always knows what I mean to do without my telling any one. I only determined to go, because Doctor Wadsworth said I must, about four days ago, and I am sure I've seen no one but tradespeople, and written nothing but business notes ever since; and yet every one knows about my plans." 
                     "'Doctor Wadsworth said you must go?'" he exclaimed, careless of the rest of her speech, and forgetful of his own resentment in alarm at her words. "Good God, Edith, you are not ill!" and he flung himself on his knees beside her and seized her hand. His evident agitation touched and startled her. His love had never seemed to her so serious a thing before-serious, of course, not to her, but to himself. That it was more than a mere mingling of fancy and sense she saw now for the first time. She let him take her hand and look into her face, as if to read there the truth about her health. Had his wits been keener to interpret what his eyes saw there, he would have been convinced that she did indeed need, imperatively need, absolute repose, but the brightness of her eyes and the soft rosy flush of her cheek were to him signs of life and health. "Tell me," he said, "tell me, Edith, are you ill?" 
                     "No, you foolish fellow," she said with a more successful attempt at gayety than she had made before-"not ill, only what you men call 'played out.' I must have rest, the doctor tells me, and no excitement-warm myself at my neighbor's fire and put out my own." 
                     "Why did you not tell me, write me?" 
                     "I knew you would come in a day or two, and I was so busy." 
                     "Say rather you did not think or care whether I came at all." 
                     "I have often told you, Thornton, that at times I don't think I care for anything or anybody, and one of these moods has possessed me lately: perhaps it is because I am really so exhausted." 
                     "Where is this place where you are going?" he said again, after a moment's thought. 
                     "In Hampshire, at my cousin's, Mrs. Bradford's. I shall be in perfect solitude, and it is a very beautiful and healthy place." 
                     "Can I not go-not with you, but after you?" he said almost timidly. 
                     "Doctor Wadsworth positively forbids the society of men," she said with concealed trepidation. Raymond was turning out an encumbrance, instead of a mere distraction. 
                     "But I am not like other men, Edith. Let me follow you there. I can bring my horses and drive you about, and I will promise not to be on your hands when you don't want me." 
                     "My dear Thornton, but what would the world say?" 
                     "Say? What do they say now? That I love you, and that you let me do it." 
                     "That I don't mind," she replied nonchalantly, "but if you followed me to my solitude and made it a tte--tte, they would say-" 
                     "Well," he said impatiently, "finish your sentence." 
                     "That I loved you, and meant to marry you," she added. 
                     "Why not?" he said, gifted with an impulse beyond his ordinary power. "No one will love you more or as well as I do, and I know you so well, Edith, I could surely make you happy. Listen to me this once. Let me follow you this summer: give me a trial. I am a changed man since you first knew me. I never dreamed I could love any one as I do you; but now I could be happy anywhere in your presence, and nowhere without you. I'll give up anything you dislike-horses, cards-cut the men you don't fancy, never come within speaking distance of a woman who displeases you. I'll be your slave-your slave, Edith-if you will only-" 
                     "-Only let you be my master?" she said, drawing her dress closer about her, and with the slightest motion in the world seeming to put a gulf between them. She felt that she was heartless and selfish, for his whole heart was in what he had said, but never had she felt so alienated from him as when he made this attempt to alter their relations and draw closer to her. She could not control her mood. Somehow, Geoffrey Marston in that short interview a few days before had turned her away from Thornton. She felt a sickening, shrinking feeling as she remembered her former attraction toward him, and how she had let it carry her as far as it would go. His eyes filled with tears as he stood looking at her. He felt as if she had struck him, and he was entirely disarmed that morning; but a woman like Edith has need to love a man before she can play Omphale to his Hercules with a distaff, and the only emotion excited in her by the sight of his softened mood was an impatient, arrogant, resentful one. He had no right to love her in that way. She had never led him to think that she would marry him-had never professed to be other than she felt to him, and she chose that her nature and feelings alone should color and control their relations. 
                     "I cannot let you go this summer, Thornton: it is impossible, and I'm not fit now to tell you why it is impossible." 
                     "May I not go to see you?" he said pleadingly. 
                     "No, I think not, but if I want you I'll send for you. You know I have always told you I am not like other people, and never want to be always with any one. It's contrary to all my ideas of life: it's like living on one kind of food; and, honestly, I don't think you are what I want now: you are not a simple enough diet." Then, as his face clouded, her woman's tact prompted her to add, "You are my champagne, you know, not my bread and milk." 
                     The cloud cleared away, and he smiled, showing a handsome set of teeth, but it contrasted badly with the smile that had lit up Marston's face, and which flashed upon Edith's memory as she looked at Raymond's face. The one smile was a revelation of weakness: the other threw a stronger light on a face in which weakness did not own a line. 
                     The gastronomic comparison pleased him, and he understood it: "I would rather be your champagne, Edith: perhaps you may be thirsty for some this summer." 
                     "If I am I will send for you," she said, seeing that only by some concession could the interview, which was becoming excessively irksome to her, be brought to a close. 
                     "You promise me that?" he said eagerly. 
                     "I promise," she replied. 
                     "And will you not drive with me once more before you go? I will call for you to-morrow afternoon. Just for an hour, Edith." 
                     "I will go," she said. "And now you really must leave me: I am horribly busy, and must go out at once." 
                     He rose reluctantly, and then, taking both her hands in his, he said, "You are quite sure you are not going away to get rid of me?" 
                     "There is no other man in the case." She colored deeply, whether from anger or embarrassment it would have been hard to tell; but whichever the emotion, she controlled its further expression, and said coldly, "I do not suppose I shall see a man till October, and I shall be only too glad if I do not: I am inexpressibly tired of men and women." 
                     "Something has happened to you." 
                     "Nothing but the natural result of an overdose of anything-satiety and a reaction." 
                     He turned to go, not convinced, but silenced, and as he turned his eyes fell on something that glittered on the table. "What is this?" he said curiously, taking it in his hand. It was a man's sleeve-button of plain gold-a crest on one side and a monogram on the other. 
                     "I don't know," she replied, holding out her hand, and then, as he laid the button in it and her eyes fell on it, it came to her mind that she had noticed Mr. Marston's buttons on that morning when he had come to see her: he had raised his hand and the light had struck on his wrist. She recognized it now, although at first she had been perfectly unconscious of having seen it. He must have dropped it, and it had been picked up by a servant and placed in the little china plate where Thornton's eyes had detected it. "Some one has lost a sleeve-button." she said: "I will keep it till called for." 
                     "Let me see it again," he said, taking it from her-"a flame ascending, and two Latin words. What do they mean?" 
                     "Deorsum nunquam-'Downward never,'" she replied quickly. 
                     "And the initials are- Let me see-plague take these monograms!-'W. S.,' are they not?" 
                     "'G. M.,' I think," she said. 
                     "So they are. How stupid I am! And who may 'G. M.' or 'M. G.' be?" 
                     "Really, Mr. Thornton, an inquiring mind may be a great scientific gift, but not a social grace." 
                     "Pardon me," answered Raymond coloring. "I will keep the button till I find the man for myself." 
                     "You will do nothing of the kind." 
                     "Why not?" 
                     "Because I do not choose that you should. Give it to me." 
                     "Tell me that you do not know to whom it belongs, and I will." 
                      
                     "I will tell you nothing but this: if you value my friendship-nay, if you wish to retain my acquaintance-you will at once give me back that button." 
                     He dared not parley with her: he put the button in her hand, and with a formal salutation left the room. 
                     She did not follow him with a thought, but as the door closed behind him she again threw herself on the lounge, the button in her hand. Long she looked at it, and at last, opening a locket which hung from her neck, she took from it the empty glasses, and dropped the button into the vacant space, saying as she did so, "A proud motto and a proud, strong man!" 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER IV. 
                     PERHAPS the greatest danger of yielding to a merely physical attraction is the effect of the certain reaction that follows. In one's intellectual enthusiasm, in one's moral fanaticism, the ebb may come as surely, but it brings with it nothing of the spiritual depression and self-loathing that follows indulgence of one's senses or one's imagination. Whether the reason is that we make too much of this physical nature of ours, idealize its workings and demand from its simplest functions a symbolic meaning which they were never meant to sustain, is hard to say. If it be so, the chief achievement of modern science will be to place all the instincts of our nature on a common basis, and symbolizing will be a luxury of highly organized natures-the privilege of the lover and the enthusiast, no longer the condition imposed on the natural gratification of impulses. If I were not of the opinion that an author takes a most unfair advantage of his readers when he allows himself to make use of his story to indoctrinate them with his pet theories, I could say much on this subject, but my conviction is deep-seated and controls the desire. 
                     Nothing had been so strong a bond between Edith Penrhyn and Thornton Raymond as his entire recognition of her personal charm. The consciousness that her attraction for him was a physical one, that her mind and soul bore no perceptible part in it, was a delicious one to her. All women care most to conquer with the so-called legitimate weapons of their sex: they have always an uneasy sense of the inappropriate, of the unfeminine, even when they wield the masculine thunderbolts with most effect: it is the aggressive, restless royalty of a usurper, not the dbonnaire ease and grace of a sovereign "to the manner born." How willingly would Madame de Stal have exchanged the laurels all men laid at her feet for the simplest flower of sentiment which they offered hourly to women whom she regarded justly as her inferiors! 
                     Edith was to Thornton simply the most attractive woman he had ever known. Her cultivation and intellect were not only thrown away on him, but, other things being equal, would have acted as a barrier between them. She delighted in his admiration-one's vanity always nestles in one's weakness-and to lead a man captive as she led him was a novel and delicious sensation. Weary of the rle of priestess and goddess, she enjoyed the consciousness that she was in his eyes, at least, on no pedestal or mountain height. So it had been, but now what veil had been rent in twain? what gulf yawned at her feet? She was in no mood for self-analysis, and when she did analyze her feelings it was with no sense of accountability for them: it had never been more than an amusement, at times a study, to her. She was dimly conscious that her interview with Geoffrey Marston had seemed rather to end her relation with Raymond than to begin one with himself. He had made the whole thing distasteful to her. Just as one might feel if, very hungry and tempted by the sight of some daintily spread table, one sat and ate and yet knew "I want other food than this," and then suddenly a table spread with the very meat and drink one has desired should rise before one, how sickened one would feel with that unsatisfying, cloying stuff which one had taken, wanting better! (I seem fated to fall on material comparisons.) Very well did Edith know that if she ever loved she would require a love like Marston's to content her; but he seemed to her like the exponent of a truth, rather than its embodiment. 
                     Now, on this bright May day, when she heard the stamping of Raymond's horses, she felt an overpowering impulse of disgust. Such was her mood toward him that no disembodied spirit could have more shrunk from the discernment of human vision than she from having his eyes rest on her face and form. It seemed profanity. But his step was on the stair, and she must go. Wrapping a light but ample bornouse about her, she entered the room. Exercise and sunshine had made him radiant, and the glow on his cheek deepened as he took her hand. Formerly she had taken pleasure in his sensitiveness to her looks and touches, but now she hated to mark it. He would have held her hand in his, but she drew it hastily away with a forced laugh, and an exclamation of "Is it not rather late?" 
                     "Just the moment, I think," he replied, "but we need not hurry." 
                     "I must hurry all the time now until I am gone: after that I shall become stagnant." 
                     "Not you," he said. "You are not of the stuff to do that. What was that poetry you read me last summer?-something of Byron's, I think." 
                     "When I was conducting your education?" 
                     "Yes, before you gave it up. But two or three lines of that stuck by me: it was so like you. 'She had too little clay:' that was it." 
                     "I never heard you quote poetry before, Mr. Raymond." 
                     "Probably you never will again." 
                     By this time they had started, the horses on a smart trot, and the fresh air filling their nostrils with spring. 
                     "I am a man of action, and would rather kiss you than write sonnets to your lips." 
                     His words jarred her: "For Heaven's sake, don't talk in that way! I detest it. Is there nothing you can talk about but me?" 
                     "You know I don't care to talk of anything else except horses, and, Edith, you did not dislike it so much a while ago." 
                     "Being human, I like variety." 
                     "Shall I tell you the gossip I heard last night at the club?" 
                     "No-yes: anything you please. I don't care." 
                     "Every one is talking about this affair of Mayhew McPherson." 
                     "Don't tell me anything of that sort: you know I detest scandal. Who is going to Europe this spring?" 
                     "Every one but you and me. Oh yes! The Remingtons are going to South America, and so is that fellow Marston: a scientific man; we met him at Mrs. Lawrence's, don't you remember?" 
                     "What does he look like? I think I remember him, but am not quite sure." This superfluous bit of disingenuousness was according to the fashion of women, who always put as many veils between their feelings and the discovery of them as possible. 
                     "I hardly know. He is tall, slightly made and dark. All the women call him distinguished-looking-a phrase I have never heard defined-and he is certainly not like other people. They tell some very romantic stories about him, and now he's going to South America ostensibly on a scientific errand, but a fellow told me last night it was said by his intimates to be for the purpose of winding up an affair with some awfully rich Spanish girl." 
                     "I don't believe it. He has probably gone to ascertain the pedigree of some rare bug, or the precise number of legs of some vile creeping creature: that is the sort of thing these scientific men pass their lives in. The women of a country they don't look at." 
                     "You are mistaken about this Mr. Marston, ma belle: he has the reputation of being a flirt and very irresistible." 
                     "Did you hear the particulars of the Spanish story?" 
                     "No. I was sorry, too, for, to tell you the truth, I thought you must be interested in him. He certainly was in you that evening at Mrs. Lawrence's, and these things are apt to be mutual; so if I could have proved to you that he was very much in love with a Brazilian beauty, I should have liked to do it." 
                     "He showed no signs of interest that were visible to me, Thornton. You must have very remarkable perceptions." 
                     "Mine are sharpened by jealousy, as you very well know, and I have never seen, not even in your own eyes when you were intent on something, such an expression as in his when they rested on your face. I was puzzled by it, because it was not an admiring look, not as if you had enthralled him by your beauty, but his eyes looked as if they were liquid fire-as if something in your face had kindled them. I must say they made him look infernally handsome." 
                     "Did they look anything like mine now?" said Edith, lifting her eyes to him. 
                     He started. It was like magic. "You must have seen him," he exclaimed. "That is the look, only yours are blue, and his very dark brown." 
                     "Oh no," she said, the light she had secretly invoked, and which had come as she recalled Marston's glance as it had met hers, dying out as she dropped her eyes again, "it is merely a testimony to your powers of description." 
                     "You are laughing at me, and the only way in which I could ever indemnify myself is out of my power here," he said with a meaning look which brought the color to her cheek. 
                     She answered nothing, and the rest of the drive was passed in attempts of Raymond to make her talk or listen, while she seemed inclined to neither, but rather to watch the sun sinking in the red west as they drove rapidly through the cultivated prettiness of Central Park. Her mood did not change when they reached home, and Thornton did not dare propose entering the house with her, as he had contemplated doing. Something in her manner chilled him and forbade it. She was fully conscious of her own inability to conceal her mood from him, and with a recklessness that belonged essentially to her character, but was not often evident, made no effort to conceal her indifference and distaste for his society. In her heart she was but too well assured of her power to bring him back to her feet by a moment's condescension, and when he said good-bye to her on the doorstep, with a forced coldness and assumed gayety that plainly betrayed how keenly she had stung him, she let him leave her without a crumb of comfort, parting from him on the footing of a pleasant familiar acquaintance. 
                     Thornton drove away moody and bitter, swearing to himself that she was heartless and selfish beyond expression-that she did not care for him, no, not one particle, and that he would give her up: he would put her out of his head. His first step toward the fulfillment of this resolution was to sit up all night playing cards and winning money at the club; and when one of his adversaries, by way of indemnifying himself for his losses, said maliciously, "'Lucky in love, unlucky at cards:' does the proverb work both ways, Raymond?" Thornton replied concisely, "Damn love! The queen of spades is my mistress tonight;" wherefrom his questioner inferred that Thornton had, as he afterward expressed it to a knot of fellows confidentially, "come to grief with Mrs. Penrhyn," but at the same time judged it prudent to put no more jocular questions to Mr. Raymond. 
                     Edith meanwhile had literally left Raymond behind her as she closed the door on him, and no memory of him crossed her during the evening, which she spent in active preparation for her approaching departure. A sound, restful sleep rewarded what she was pleased to term her "honest toil," and she woke the next morning with a secret sense of relief at the prospect of that day leaving the monotonous excitements of city life behind her for an indefinite period of time. 
                     While her carriage stood at the door and was being piled with trunks and bags, the postman brought the morning's mail, and Edith thrust her letters into her pocket till she should be seated in the car and have started on her journey ney. When she was under way, and, after taking a look at the fast flitting landscape through which she was being rapidly borne, she drew her letters again from her pocket, she saw that one of them was in a hand unknown to her. That one she of course kept till she had gone through the batch of business notes and banale epistles from her society friends which made up the rest of her mail. 
                     The sight of an unknown handwriting when one is well assured that it is not that of a dun is almost as interesting as the sight of a new face, an acquaintance with which is speedily to follow, and Edith scrutinized the address on the envelope carefully before she turned it over and broke the seal. The hand was a bold, free, masculine one, which she was sure she had never seen before; but the seal told its story, and a bright blush on her cheek betrayed that she understood it. "It was his motto then," she murmured as she opened the envelope. 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER V. 
                     AND this was the letter: 
                     "Edith, it may be a weakness to write to you at all, but what I shall say to you will not be weak. Indeed, I write to you because I may lose something by not writing, and as this is the great venture of my life, is it not wise to take all possible precautions against failure? I know that you are a woman with whom power of expression tells. You will believe in my love, you will feel its existence the better for my proclaiming it. If I am silent, you will most likely half doubt its intensity and depth, and it will not be, as I would have it, a living fact in your life. How can I prevent this? If you loved me, if you had exchanged love with me, then your heart could do duty for mine, I should not fear. But how can I urge my suit hourly, daily, so far away? Even letters must be seldom. I must submit to this, for there is no means of overcoming it. And yet, and yet-one word I must say, and perhaps it may stay with you during the months to come. Every look and grace that you bestow upon others, if you ever love me, will be repented by you bitterly. You may love me, you know-only remember that some day you may love me-and then you will have spent all your treasure in buying tinsel gewgaws, only to see the pearl of price offered to you and be unable to purchase it. And in one sense love is always and only to be bought-never to be accepted as a gift. 'Die Liebe ist der Liebe Preis:' that is true, utterly true; and though I may lay my love at your feet, you cannot really wear it as you could if you paid me for it in like coin, with a like jewel. 
                     "I know your nature so well. I know how absolutely you disbelieve in ever loving any one as I love you-as I would have you love me. But it does not matter whether you believe in your own power of love or no: it exists, and when it wakens and asserts its right to reign, what will you have done with its royal treasures, its storehouse of bounty, its insignia of royalty? It will be a beggared monarch, and reign over a kingdom stripped of riches and glory. Then you will be miserable indeed. You have ever lived as if Love were not your king; but he is-uncrowned perhaps, but your rightful king, Edith. What right, then, have you to lavish his possessions, to give away his royal privileges to every chance comer? Oh, Edith, it may not be I who shall embody love to you-it may not be my brows that are destined to be crowned with the myrtle wreath that is far sweeter than any laurel leaf; but whether it be I or another, the day will come when Love will demand of you a strict account, and you, his faithless servant, will tremble before his divine anger. 
                     "Think, Edith, how, if you ever love, it will be with you when every caress, every word of love, every vouchsafed grace that you women confer on your beloved, can be at best old coin reissued, fresh stamped, but from an old die! Think how it will be with you when for a bridal garment no white virginal robe is yours-all your rich dresses stained with the purple wine of passion! Oh what a fool is the woman who plucks petal by petal from her rose of womanhood and love and beauty, and scatters them, each with its petty dole of fragrance and beauty, widespread upon the crowd of men who feed her vanity, excite her passions or stimulate her intellect! and then when one comes who claims Love's perfect, full-blooming flower in exchange for that he brings her, and she knows him to be Love himself-not a mere eidolon, a mere image of the divinity-can plead only, 'I thought you would never come, and, faithless and forgetful, I have scattered the leaves of your flower hither and thither. I have nothing to give for your love. I have a barren kingdom, an empty treasury, for you to possess and rule over.' 
                     "Love may kiss away her tears, he may shed upon her his own wealth of cherished tenderness and hoarded passion, till she is rich in his riches and glorious with a glory not her own; but again, Edith, 'Die Liebe ist der Liebe Preis,' and for ever will she regret that she can never know the sweetness, the most sacred joy, of a woman's soul-that supreme moment when she leads him whom she loves before the shrine 'occult, withheld, untrod,' and says, 'Enter thou into thy kingdom. Let me kiss thee with a kiss that suggests no memory; let me lead thee in an untrodden and a virgin path, wherein thou shalt pluck flowers that have bloomed for thine eyes alone, and whose fragrance has never intoxicated the senses of another.' 
                     "Ah, Edith, do not relinquish this delight, cast not from you this bliss. It is quite true that what you give to all these men may be just what is theirs, but it is only by the splintering of your diamond that you can give to them. Well enough were it, if one were for ever to live in this barbarous, every-day world, in which one neither buys nor sells, for most part, at more than a huckster's rate. If one knew that one must be content to starve should one attempt to keep the precious jewel intact-that no purchaser would ever come to buy it as a perfect chrysolite-then it were folly indeed to die a starving beggar with a Kohinoor in one's bosom. Rather would one say to the eager bidders for its fragments, 'Here, splinter me my jewel, and give me, you, bread, you, wine-feed me amongst you.' But if you knew surely that some day-how soon you knew not, but some day-the great merchant seeking through the world for the Kohinoor should come-come and say, 'Here, for thy perfect jewel I offer thee its perfect equivalent, its match, its peer,' would you not wait and fast and pray and watch and struggle? 
                     "I conjure you, wait. If it be not I, then another will come. Ah, Edith, my love, my adored, have faith in yourself-in your own nature. None can harm you but yourself, Edith, for you are of that quality of which it is said 
                           Que les eaux du ciel ne l'entament jamais.
                         I speak not for myself, but for you, whom I love better than myself or aught else. 
                     "Yours, GEOFFREY MARSTON." 
                     However great may be one's power of expression in writing, however strong the impulse that induces one to confide to paper one's ideas and feelings, the supreme objection to letter-writing, the danger of it, can never be diminished: it lies in the simple fact that what is written in one mood will inevitably be read in another by the person to whom it is written. No letter can carry its charmed atmosphere with it: it must take its chances, and how slight they are! 
                     Most true is this of a lover's letter, for the importunity, the exaltation, the extravagance that are to indue it with weight and power especially require it to be read in a fitting mood. A lover who seeks his mistress's side bent on declaring or urging his suit, still, if he perceives that her ear is deaf or her face turned away, may defer putting his fate to the touch till a more propitious time. Upon the right choice of opportunity depend most things in life, and few men are dull enough or perverse enough not to avoid an unfavorable moment or seize upon a fortunate one. But a letter! One writes it, folds and seals it, and then it is all at the mercy of fickle Fortune. It may reach her indeed at a moment when, softened and pensive, she will be open to its influences and responsive to its appeals; but how far more likely that what one has written with heart on fire and forgetful of every prosaic daylight consideration-alone, at midnight, after an evening spent in an imaginary tte--tte with the creature whom one loves and from whom one is parted-will be read at noonday, garish noonday, in a railroad car or over a late breakfast-table by a woman who has for the moment forgotten that the word sentiment has a meaning for her-has a little headache and is rather out of humor! 
                     Marston had no choice, however. Write he must: as he truly said, nothing could harm him so much as silence. It had not its fabled divine power with Edith. She believed a good deal of what people said, if they said it well, and very little of what they did not say. She was born thus, and could not control it. She read Geoffrey's letter through, not slowly-it surprised and interested her too much for deliberate reading-but with a sort of intensity that sucked the meaning out of it the first time. But her mood was not favorable to it. A feeling of weary impatience possessed her. When she at last folded and laid it away, "Mon Dieu!" she murmured, "I might live up to that sort of thing one month out of twelve, but for the whole year, never!" 
                     The consciousness that one chord in her answered to his touch made the discord with the rest more plain; and then, too, Edith had been so far injured by her intercourse with other men that she felt a sense of spiritual fatigue after long breathing such a rarefied atmosphere. It is not with impunity that a delicately and highly organized creature separates one part of her nature from another, and allows each to ignore the other's action. 
                     Edith banished Marston and his letter from her mind, or rather postponed the thought of them, as one might do the reception of a guest whose chamber was unprepared. She said to herself, "I must not let any one or anything worry me: I shall never be strong if I do;" and then, as the train swept rapidly on, her thoughts reverted with a sense of languid relief to the prospect of her summer. All milk and honey her diet was to be. Her cousin had written her, in answer to her letter, that a small cottage on the place was vacant and at her service, and the idea of a miniature household of her own delighted Edith, whose chief dread had been not solitude, but the absence of it. Like all very real people, she never, even in her gloomiest moods, dreaded it: a habit of perpetual frankness with herself kept her from any fear of meeting unwelcome thoughts and feelings if alone, and she had, besides, an absolute need to be alone from time to time. Society of a quiet and modified description she knew her cousin's quiet household could furnish her with. For years they had only seen each other at intervals, and those were the occasions when Mary had a week to spend in shopping in New York, and Edith's house was her pied--terre. Then, very naturally, Mary's impressions were taken more from externals than internals, and of her cousin's real self she knew but little. The affection between them was strong and instinctive, but, like most love between relatives, it existed quite independently of any sympathy of nature or real mutual comprehension-an attachment such as we generally link with the tie of blood. Mary had a daughter, a young thing of nearly eighteen now, whom Edith had never seen since babyhood, and for whom she had the incipient fondness that a matured woman is apt to feel for one of her own sex having about her that atmosphere of youth from which she herself has but just emerged. She thought much of the young girl as she journeyed on, and pleased herself in thinking of her. She was fully conscious how much pleasure and delight she would carry with her to this secluded spot, and it soothed and lulled her to dwell upon it. But by the time the long, weary travel of an unbroken day in the cars was over, Edith was too weary to take or give an impression in any way. She could only hug Mary in a sleepy kind of way, and was dimly conscious of a slight figure in white gliding about the little low-roofed cottage parlor, and in soft shy tones calling her "Cousin Edith," and then came a delicious cup of tea and a more delightful sinking into oblivion upon a bed that seemed, as indeed it was, redolent of roses. 
                   
                
                
                   
                  PART II. 
                   
                     CHAPTER VI. 
                     ONE who has been long an inhabitant of cities is awakened in the early morning by the stillness of the country, as the clatter of the streets rouses a rustic sleeping in a hotel. So Edith waked and slept or dozed again and again with a delightful and ever-growing sense of repose. The day seemed to stretch before her, a calm expanse of idleness or dolce far niente: no thoughts of engagements, visitors, amusements, all that makes up the busy idleness of a city life, urged her to rise and dress. But a gentle tap at the door came, and in answer to her "Come in," there entered her chamber the dimly-seen figure of the night before that had ministered to her fatigue and hunger. 
                     May Bradford was a specimen of a charming type of young girl, without much evident individuality of her own, but without angles or chasms in her character. It was not moulded on a great scale, but it was harmonious. She greeted her cousin with a shy but hearty welcome, and Edith, who always succeeded with women when her will was not wanting, soon cast her spell upon May, who had never seen any one before possessing a tithe of Edith's personal attraction. Mrs. Penrhyn was domiciliated in a few hours, and slipped into her place at the family table between the two boys, aged twelve and fourteen respectively, as if she had been their eldest sister and always occupied it. The quiet little household found that, to its infinite delight and relief, she was not the white elephant they had all in their several ways half dreaded, and Mrs. Bradford congratulated herself again and again on having had the wisdom to accept Edith's proposal to become the tenant of the Lodge for the summer. It was in every way a success. Her limited means, cut down by her husband's death some years before, were much the better for the addition made to them by Edith's liberal contribution; and then what an advantage for dear May if her cousin fancied her, and next winter would give her a peep at that world in which, however enclosed, all mothers desire their daughters should try for a prize! 
                     And Edith-how was it with her? She found herself in no way disappointed in her young cousin: the sweetness and freshness she had looked to find were there, and with them a quick intelligence and the delightful enthusiasm of youth. Their respective positions were soon taken, and Edith, who was the representative of the vast unknown great world in the eyes of the simple young girl, found herself erected into not only the "glass of fashion and the mould of form," but an oracle of knowledge and wisdom, regarded always with uncompromising admiration, and sometimes almost with awe. For if there were-as how could there fail to be?-penetrable joints in her armor, May's eyes were too much dazzled by its glittering sheen to see them; and many a time her confident faith and evident assurance that her queen could do no wrong brought a quick, generous blush to Edith's cheek as she remembered how far from immaculate were the pages of her past. Her past! How wild and exciting and full of complicated, intense emotions it seemed in this daylight of simplicity and calm repose! She had a curious feeling at times, as if she were being made all over again in this new life, the current of which ran so smoothly that every nerve seemed quieted and lulled to rest as she floated with it. Creature of change and reaction, of ebb and flow, as she was, the very monotony of the days was grateful to her-the early hours, the simple fare, the long, restful nights of sleep. She grew to like them all, and astonished the family by her enjoyment of what they had scarcely hoped she would tolerate. The good souls little knew that it was but a passing hunger, and one which, when appeased, would sleep a dreamless sleep. 
                     Several weeks had glided by, and Edith had settled down into what seemed to her a charming routine of occupations, but in fact consisted of an ingeniously systematized course of idleness. She added a new and most delightful element to the family group at Glenwood. They all admired her, and in some way she gave each and all pleasure, for she was a pleasure-giving being in the most real sense of the word. Her altar was never cold, and the gentle cloud of incense that rose perpetually in her nostrils soothed and pleased her. And then there was no rival to dispute her sway. "Those who came to scoff remained to pray," was literally true of the two or three country lasses who, old friends of May's, came reluctantly and with prejudice to make the acquaintance of her cousin, "Mrs. Penrhyn, from the city." They had never dreamed that such a combination of beauty and fashion could coexist with a geniality and tact that were to other and wiser heads than theirs irresistible, and her little kingdom was composed of none but loyal subjects. 
                     One bright Saturday morning, as Edith was putting the last touches to a toilet which was the more charming for its simplicity, and the elaboration of which was just what it would have been at Newport ("I dress for myself," she always said), May rushed in with an open letter in her hand: "Oh, Cousin Edith, Max is coming to-night, and he will spend his whole vacation here! Is it not too delightful?" 
                     "If I had the remotest idea who Max was, my darling, I should not be lukewarm in my sympathy," replied Edith, smiling as she knotted the ends of her cravat loosely together and turned to her excited questioner. 
                     "Not know who Max is, Cousin Edith! Why, he is papa's nephew, my cousin Maxwell Floyd, and he is a theological student." 
                     "Oh dear!" said Edith with an involuntary accent of dismay, but recovering herself, added: "I am very glad he is coming if you all want him, but will he think me very dreadful, and pray for me at family prayers every night?" 
                     "He will think you the most beautiful cousin and woman in the world, as we all do," exclaimed May, giving Edith a hug in the exuberance of her delight; "and you are sure to like him." 
                     "What is he like?" 
                     "Well, he is tall and handsome, fair, with deep-blue eyes and curly brown hair; and he is very manly and athletic, rows beautifully and rides splendidly-a sort of muscular Christian, you know; and next year he will be ordained; and-oh dear, cousin! I hardly know what to tell you about him. You are sure to like him, though." 
                     "Am I?" was Edith's mental comment. She refrained, however, from uttering any of the heresies which rose to her lips apropos of clergymen and their profession and professions; for Edith, like most women of the world, believed that some species of goodness, and more especially that usually expected from and affected by clergymen, was only really attainable by women. The so-called feminine virtue of purity and the self-control that consists in suppression she thought impossible to men; and when they claimed them she believed that they but added the vice of hypocrisy to their proper masculine shortcomings; so that her feeling toward the cloth in general was a sort of aversion mingled with incredulity and amusement. A world in which the men were all sans peur and the women sans reproche would have seemed to her a place where the moral burdens of life were equally and fairly divided between the sexes. 
                     "A theological student and a muscular Christian! Dear me! how much Kingsley has to answer for! Well, I suppose he cannot help being a prig, he is so young. No doubt he means well, and I must make the best of it. If he only won't think me obnoxious and injurious 'to his dearest little cousin'-I think that is what he called her in his letter. A little flattery will set it all right, I suppose; and I must remember not to leave my French novels lying about. They act upon an embryo clergyman as a red rag does on a bull-outrage his sensibilities without his quite knowing why." And Edith ended her soliloquy with a light laugh, threw herself on a sofa, and was soon deep in the pages of one of her French novels. 
                     The first words that Maxwell Floyd heard after the enthusiastic greeting he received from one and all of the family at Glenwood were: "Cousin Edith is here, Max, and you will admire her so much." 
                     "Cousin Edith?" he repeated with a bewildered look. 
                     "You must have heard me speak of her, my dear boy," said Mrs. Bradford, "but you have forgotten. She has taken the Lodge for the summer, but so far we have made but one family. Edith-that is, Mrs. Penrhyn-says that the consciousness that she can command solitude at any moment has quenched her thirst for it, and we are all only too glad to have her with us." 
                     "Humph!" said Maxwell under his breath, "that sounds like a fine-lady caprice." 
                     "Don't prejudge her, Max," whispered May in a deprecatory tone. "Wait till you see her." The confident tone of the last few words was not calculated to soothe Maxwell's incipient sense of antagonism, which sprang from the annoyance of finding a stranger's name a household word in the little circle where hitherto he had been the only favored guest; but he answered with a smile and in a softened tone, "I don't doubt Mrs. Penrhyn-of whom you did write me, by the way, only not as 'Cousin Edith'-is all that a woman can be. Shall I see her at tea, May?" 
                     "I hope so," responded May radiantly, and Max, looking at his watch, hurried off to his room to prepare for the meal and the meeting. By the time he came down stairs he had quite decided that he should never like Mrs. Penrhyn, but at the same time had magnanimously resolved to treat her like a gentleman and a Christian; which, being translated into the profane vernacular, meant upon the whole rather disagreeably than otherwise. 
                     The family party were assembled at tea, and Maxwell was in the midst of a narrative of his recent successes in his college, when Mrs. Penrhyn entered so quietly and unobtrusively that he first knew of her presence by an odor wafted to him across the table-something between orange blossom and Cape jessamine-and looking up saw the seat opposite to his filled by a creature as unlike the Mrs. Penrhyn of his up-stairs meditations as could well be conceived. Instinctively he rose as his aunt presented him, and bowed in silence. There was an unconscious air of serene queenliness about Edith's mute acknowledgment of his mute salutation that irritated him. As the meal went on he grew more and more antagonized: her very dress and air were to his notions objectionable. He felt, rather than observed, that her ideas and tastes and feelings were the very antipodes of his own, and all the petty intolerance and jealousy with which his nature was incrusted awakened at the thought. At once his determination, formed before he had seen her, was modified. He had thought her a woman of the world indeed, but not so dangerous; by which he meant attractive and beautiful. He would of course treat her with perfect politeness, but he must not let her influence be too strong, especially over May, dear, innocent May! His soul went forth in an imaginary crusade against Mrs. Penrhyn's evil tendencies, and he was slightly embarrassed, on suddenly looking up, to find her star-like eyes fixed upon him with a half-amused look. He controlled his confusion, however, and returned her look steadily and gravely. Her eyes did not fall, which was wrong, according to Maxwell's theory. As a man and a clergyman he had a double claim that her eyes should lower their gaze before his. But Mrs. Penrhyn, seemingly, was not of this opinion, for after a few seconds' prolonged look she said suddenly, "Mr. Floyd, I am afraid you are guilty of using belladonna for your pupils: I never saw such enormous ones. After tea I shall insist on a scientific test being applied by means of a lighted candle." 
                     Edith always said what came into her head, and people who admired her thought it one of her most charming qualities: others called it affected and eccentric. The latter it might be, the former it certainly was not. She made this rather odd beginning of conversation with perfect gravity, and Max was silent from astonishment. He had never been "chaffed" by a woman before, the young ladies of his limited circle thinking that his profession entitled him to be spoken to seriously. So did not Mrs. Penrhyn, for after a moment's pause she went on, this time with a quiver of laughter in her voice: "I never dreamed you were so meretricious. And you are to be a clergyman too! It's a sad example." 
                     "I assure you, Mrs. Penrhyn," said Maxwell, finding speech at last, "your jest fails to penetrate my armor. Vulnerable as I am, I trust it is not on the score of personal vanity." 
                     Edith made a slight, all but imperceptible moue at this solemn rejoinder, and said lightly, "I trust you are not such a monster as to be without a little vanity: I consider it the mainspring of all useful characters." 
                     "I don't quite understand you," replied Maxwell stiffly, with a dawning perception that he was being laughed at, and too young in the ways of women of the world to know that Edith was paying him a compliment by her jesting tone. They were completely at cross-purposes-she rather inclined to put the young fellow, "who had wonderful eyes, certainly," on a sort of domestic animal footing, the only light in which she ever dreamed of regarding very young men (when she condescended to regard them at all); he resentful of her tone, fretted by her easy air of superiority, and bristling all over like a porcupine. 
                     "It's too hot to explain anything tonight," she said languidly, a slight tinge of haughtiness stealing over her manner. "Mary dear, excuse me, won't you? May, come and let us go over the little French song I taught you last night; but no-Mr. Floyd is the stranger, and I won't be selfish to-night. I'll take the boys for a row. Harry! Edward! come;" and she glided away from the table, and, escorted by her two liegemen, disappeared in the direction of the little lake which lay a short distance from the house. 
                     "Shall we go too, Max?" said May timidly. 
                     "No, I don't care to row-I'm tired," said he, rather sulkily, throwing himself into a hammock which swung on the piazza. "Mrs. Penrhyn has it all her own way here, I suppose." 
                     "We all love her dearly, and the boys delight in rowing her. It is so wonderful that she should be content here, is it not?" 
                     "All's grist that comes to her mill, I suppose," he replied. "She won't like it long." 
                     "Why, Max! what ails you? You are unkind, I think." 
                     "No, no, May, I'm not; but you must forgive me if I don't much fancy your cousin: she wasn't very civil to me." 
                     "Not civil to you, Max! Why, she joked with you, and she never jokes when she doesn't like any one. You should see her grand, cold manner, and when she laughs in that way with us we all think it a compliment." 
                     "Very likely, dear, but I am not a cousin nor a child. I am a minister, or almost one, and I confess I prefer being treated with respect. Besides, May, that was a horrible word she used, so unfeminine and- Well, I'll try to like her, but I wish she wasn't here. Let us talk of something else." 
                     "Yes, do, Max: tell me about that debate, and how you came off victorious." 
                     Max readily acquiesced, and under the soothing influence of May's unfeigned admiration and interest almost forgot the ruffled sense of wounded dignity he had experienced at the table. Two hours later the boating-party was heard returning, and May and Max paused in their chat to listen to the sound of a little French song which Edith was singing, the two lads making a chorus. 
                     "Is not her voice sweet?" said May. 
                     "I hate French songs," said Max, "and everything French. It's the French literature, May," he added solemnly, "that is corrupting the minds of the youth of this country. I suppose Mrs. Penrhyn reads French novels all day long?" 
                      
                     "No, no, not exactly that," said May, "but she reads a good many. Are they all bad, Max?" 
                     "All," said Max, confidently. 
                     "Did you ever read one?" said May innocently. 
                     "No, I can't read French, but one doesn't have to read a thing one's self to know about it, May." 
                     "Oh, of course not, but Cousin Edith says-" 
                     "Oh, darling, don't let us talk about Mrs. Penrhyn: she is welcome to her opinions;" and so the conversation closed. 
                     For a few days Edith preserved her graciousness intact, and met Maxwell's coldness and stiffness with a serenity that made him dislike her the more; but after trying good-naturedly to win him to her side, she suddenly desisted and treated him with a coldness that was more effective than his own, because it sat more easily upon her-rarely spoke to or noticed him except by an occasional thrust of irony, under which he winced. He evidently disliked her, and it was a feeling that waxed stronger, rather than died out, as the days went by. They were of necessity thrown much together; and though Edith avoided direct intercourse with him, still at times it became unavoidable. He was conscious that he was ungracious and unjust to her, and the very consciousness of it irritated him: he would not admit to himself that she was charming, and yet, spite of himself, he felt her charm. He obstinately set himself against her; and though, after the first day or two, he ceased to comment on her to May, and contented himself with mute disapproval of her sentiments and actions, yet his antagonism made itself visible; but it served to increase the enthusiasm and deepen the loyalty of the two lads, and even of May herself, who sadly admitted that "she did wish Max liked Cousin Edith, and did not find fault with her all the time." 
                     Poor Max! his throne was usurped, and he could not, boy as he was, bring himself to sit at the feet of the woman who had displaced him. 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER VII. 
                     So things went on till one lovely afternoon about two weeks after Maxwell's arrival, as he lay under a tree on the lawn, pretending to read a deep controversial book, but in reality dreaming away the sunlight, he was roused by hearing Mrs. Penrhyn exclaim, in a tone of vexation, "How provoking! I had set my heart on a row this delicious afternoon. Those shabby boys! I shall scold them well. And there is no one even to push the boat off for me!" Maxwell jumped up instinctively, and after a moment's hesitation came forward and said, rather awkwardly, "I shall be very glad to push the boat off, Mrs. Penrhyn." 
                     Edith looked at him doubtfully, and opened her mouth to decline this the first spontaneous courtesy that he had offered her: then the thought that he was her. only possible means of obtaining the long exquisite, dreamy afternoon she had promised herself overcame her, and she said gently, "If you will be so very good;" and they turned as if by mutual consent and walked toward the shore. It was the first moment that they had ever voluntarily passed alone together, and the consciousness of this lent a double stiffness to Maxwell's manner as he said, "You are very fond of rowing, Mrs. Penrhyn?" 
                     "I like it better than any out-of-doors amusement except riding on horseback, and it is too hot for that now." 
                     "What do you like better in-doors?" 
                     "Oh, so many things-reading, for instance." 
                     "French novels," thought Max, and curled his lip. She saw it and smiled indifferently: it did not nettle, only amused her. 
                     "Not trash always, Mr. Floyd," she said deprecatingly, with a slight appeal in her voice. He was a man, after all, and Edith remembered it to his peril as soon as they were alone together. 
                     He colored at the implied reference to his thoughts, and stammered out a disclaimer: she smiled and let it pass. A few steps farther on, as they passed a little thicket, a feeble cry was heard, and Edith stopped and said, "Do you hear that?" 
                     "Yes," he said: "it's nothing but a kitten, I think." 
                     "Wait an instant, please," she said hastily, and then darted into a thicket, emerging in a few moments with a kitten indeed in her arms. The little animal had torn itself in the brambles, and was mewing piteously. 
                     "Please hold its poor little paw, Mr. Floyd," she said, forgetful of their distant terms, "and let me pull out this horrid thorn." He did so, and she dexterously extracted a large thorn and gave the kitten instant relief. Then with a few pats and caresses the little creature was started on the homeward path, and they strolled on. 
                     But a moment after Maxwell's eyes fell upon her hand, and he saw that she had lacerated it with the brambles. The sight made him flush, and he exclaimed, "You have hurt your hand!" 
                     "Nothing much," she replied carelessly; "only a scratch I got keeping the thorns off that poor kitten." 
                     "Would you let me-might I tie it up for you?" said Max eagerly, almost tremulously. 
                     She looked at him from under her long dark lashes a soft, slow look, and then said, "Yes, if you please," and held out her hand. It was not badly torn, as he saw when he had gently wiped the blood away, but one thorn had run into the flesh, and he pulled it out. 
                     "Did that hurt you?" he said, his voice trembling as he asked. 
                     "Not much," she said gayly. 
                     "Mrs. Penrhyn," he said, looking up into her face as he knelt before her and prepared to bind up her finger-she had seated herself on the trunk of a tree when he had first offered to dress her hand, and as his eyes met hers their faces were very near each other, and she looked again into his wonderful big pupils and saw them dilating and darkening with the excitement of the moment-"Mrs. Penrhyn, if you would not dislike it too much" (this was said very humbly)-"but I am afraid if you do not let me the place will fester." 
                     "Let you do what?" said Edith. 
                     "Put my lips to the wound and draw out the poison of the thorn," he answered-"please let me." 
                     Edith colored slightly, but said, "Certainly," and held her hand out with perfect composure. 
                     He bent his head, and she felt his warm lips close about the little puncture and press against her hand. In a moment it was done, and the poison was transferred from her veins to his. He tied the strip of cambric about her finger in silence with unsteady hands, and no more was said till they reached the boat, he walking dreamily along, a flush on his cheek, and Edith humming the refrain of a little French song which she had read that day, and which haunted her so that she was fain to improvise an air for it. 
                     The shore once reached, Maxwell, with a brief apology for the want of ceremony, threw off his coat, and in a few moments the boat was dancing on the water. A light pair of oars were in it. Mrs. Penrhyn's shawl was placed in a safe corner, while Max, holding the boat with one hand, held out the other to help her in. 
                     "Can you manage both oars?" he said as she seated herself and took them in her hands. 
                     His voice had a queer sound in it, and Edith looked up quickly into his face. There was no mistaking the pleading expression in his eyes, and she said with a laugh, "You want your fee, doctor? Come, then." 
                     He needed no further bidding, but sprang lightly into the boat, and taking the oars from her unresisting hands, with a few powerful strokes had soon sent the boat out into the lake. Edith, who had established herself comfortably on her shawl in the other end of the boat, sat silent for a few moments watching the spray from the feathered oars as they rose and dipped in the sunlight. 
                     "How strong he is! and what a becoming thing strength is to a man!" she thought. "It almost makes one forget his odious profession. But I must not forget that Mr. Floyd deserves a lesson, and will be all the better for one. He's but a boy, after all, and may be much improved by training." 
                     The result of this brief meditation was that when Maxwell attained sufficient composure by dint of hard rowing for ten minutes to lift his head and look at his companion, which he did with a curious sense of complicity in something unorthodox, he knew not what, he saw the Mrs. Penrhyn of an hour ago, whom he almost disliked, and altogether disapproved of-the woman against whom he had been protesting in season and out of season-had come back, and the creature of the last half hour had gone like a wreath of mist. What it was that made the difference he knew not. Only a few moments ago he had felt every drop of blood in his body tingle to his finger-tips as he looked into her eyes and but his lips to her hand. It had been sudden, unforeseen and brief as summer lightning; and now he was again the Maxwell Floyd of the morning, who would willingly have walked five miles in the sun to escape a tte--tte row with Mrs. Penrhyn. And she? An impenetrable veil had been drawn over her face as it was in the wood, and the same slight mocking, haughty smile played over her lips that he had seen there that very morning, when he had been inveighing against some breach of decorum committed by a woman of fashion at Newport, of which he had heard at second hand through a friend's letter. 
                     Before he could think it out, while the blood was still in his cheeks that had risen to them as he saw her old look come back again, she spoke, but with what a different voice from the siren tone with which she had lured him into the boat! "She only wanted a boatman," he thought instantly, "and so made me think she wanted me." 
                     "Mr. Floyd, I meant to tell you that I have some books at the Lodge-not many, but quite at your service, and all in your line, I believe. I suppose you read all sides of a subject, and won't object to a little heterodox theology? I happen to have been reading in that direction this summer, and as I'm slightly omnivorous and very desultory, have a little of every shade of opinion." 
                     Yes, it had been a dream. The quiet, cold, courteous tone of her voice, the indefinable hauteur of her manner, put a space between them that even in that little boat, with his feet grazing the hem of her dress as she half reclined, half sat watching the water sparkle, he could not bridge over. All his pride came mustering fast to his rescue, and he said, with a very good attempt at indifference, "Thank you very much, but I fancy I am doomed to drier stuff for my summer's reading than Mrs. Penrhyn would care to digest for a caprice." 
                     "Well, that may be: there is nothing patristic about my collection, certainly, and nothing very old. I never enjoy obsolete books: I like those best that have their raison d'tre in the day in which they are written; and then, too, it amuses and interests me to read modern religious books, because they almost all consist of more or less clever attempts to put new wine into old bottles; and that is an instructive experiment to watch, especially when the wine ferments and bursts the bottles. But come and look at my collection before you despise it." 
                     "I will, certainly," he said with some embarrassment. 
                     "You read everything, don't you?" she went on. "I mean, that is your theory of reading, is it not?-a circle, not the segment of one?" 
                     "I suppose it is my theory, but not my practice, I fear." 
                     "That is because no one can really read at college-only learn how to read," she said. "When you have more time you can read what other people think, not what somebody over you thinks you ought to think. The terrible part of an orthodox course of reading is that it gives you formed and definite opinions. Nothing is so much to be deprecated: as soon as one begins to crystallize, one ceases to ferment." 
                     Maxwell drew a long breath as Edith tranquilly uttered these, to him, astounding heresies. Limitation was the soul of the teaching he had received, as it must be of all dogmatism. 
                      
                     "There is a wonderful amount of life to me in modern religious free-thinking," said Edith musingly; "and such rarity! such individuality!-none of that uniformity which is a sure sign of the torpor of approaching death. Think of Renan, Strauss and Newman writing in the same generation, and all with the same dominant subject of interest!" 
                     "Do you read those books?" he said quickly. 
                     "Yes, I read them. M. Renan I have always followed in his writings, and Newman I enjoy at all times, though his logic always seems to me, as compared with that of other men of ability, as ventriloquism is to fine singing--wonderful, but barren of result. The day for casuistry has gone by: we need something equally keen, but that cuts deeper-cuts below one's sores, and probes one's wounds to the quick." She spoke gravely and as if she were thinking aloud. 
                     So she really cared and thought about such things?-she who had seemed such a frivolous creature of time and sense, a mere butterfly. Maxwell thawed as they talked on, and soon found himself discussing, arguing and disputing in good earnest. Edith possessed the power of stimulating the intellect of a man as only a clever woman, who is at the same time a genuine one, can, without repelling him; and the time flew by, unnoted by Max, until he was reminded of it by Edith suddenly saying, "We shall be late for tea, Mr. Floyd, and you must be weary." 
                     "I haven't a sensation of fatigue," he said simply: "I could row till to-morrow morning." 
                     "You must be very strong." 
                     "I am strong, but that was not what I meant." 
                     "Oh no: I knew you meant to pay me a pretty compliment-none the less graceful for its want of originality," replied Edith with a mocking smile; "but row in, or they will wonder what has become of us, never dreaming that we are together." 
                     This last sentence was uttered in a tone of irony which brought a cloud over Max's brow: he bent to his oars, and in a very short time they had reached the shore. Whether they would have reached the house on better terms had they walked up through the wood together and alone-whether Edith would have soothed his ruffled mood and lured "this tassel gentle back"-can never be known, for on the bank stood the two boys, penitent and eager to be forgiven. Edith took an arm of each, and walked to the house between her two happy subjects, alternately teasing and petting the lads, while Max followed with her shawl on his arm, moody and resentful, yet with his brain surging with thoughts gendered by their talk in the boat. 
                     "She has forgotten my very existence already," he thought; "or, if she remembers me, it is that I am carrying her shawl like a lackey." Just then it rushed over him, "But she would not have let a lackey touch her as I did this afternoon. Has she forgotten that too, I wonder?" An impulse urged him forward to test her memory on that point, and as they reached the door he quickly stepped forward and said, as he handed her shawl into May's outstretched hands, "I have forgotten all this while to ask after your finger, Mrs. Penrhyn: is it all right again?" 
                     Edith looked at him, her eyes brimming with amusement-what a boy he was!-and said, "Thank you: your surgery was a complete success, I think. Did you know your cousin had a gift for doctoring, May?" she added, turning to May, to Max's dismay. "He"-and she paused for a second, and then went on, to his intense relief-"tied up my finger most skillfully this afternoon when I ran a thorn in it." 
                     May, overjoyed at the prospect of an entente cordiale between Edith and Max, expressed the greatest interest in the adventure, and insisted upon a full and particular account of it at the tea-table, which Edith accordingly gave, omitting, however, all mention of Max's special recipe for healing a wound without inflammation; nor did she enlarge upon the row, merely saying that "Mr. Floyd had taken pity on her deserted condition"-here she looked reproachfully at Harry and Ned-"and given her a magnificent pull-worth twenty of yours, boys," she concluded. 
                     Maxwell Floyd did not sleep well that night. He sat long by his chamber window, and thought over the afternoon till his temples throbbed painfully. A whole new world seemed to have opened for him, full of uncertainties, doubts, problems, where everything was shifting, vague and shadowy. How unlike the world in which he had always lived, of plain facts, clearly-seen realities! Women had always been to him as prosaic in their aspect as men: no atmosphere of poetry and sentiment and imagination surrounded them as he had known them; and although he believed devoutly in love, it was as a sober domestic deity, waving no flaming torch, but holding a well-trimmed lamp, turned down and giving a steady moderate light. Of woman in her goddess aspect-of the intoxication, the terrible joys and exquisite pains of love, of Heine's embodiment of woman as a sphinx, who, while she ravished his soul with kisses, rent his flesh with her cruel claws-he had no conception whatever. Of Browning's meaning when he said, "What maketh heaven, that maketh hell," he could have told you nothing. The occurrences of the afternoon, which to Mrs. Penrhyn had been a pleasant enough distraction, but by no means surprising, seemed to him incomprehensible. He had yet to learn that women of Edith's type, being paradoxes themselves, engender nothing but paradoxes. 
                     However, Max tried to convince himself, with the wonderful honest sophistry of youth-youth which is at once so true and so unreal-that Mrs. Penrhyn, although very charming-yes, that he must admit-was still not at all the sort of person he admired. He had done her an injustice about her reading, but that was a trifle. She had no simplicity, none of the ingenuousness that May possessed in such perfection. No doubt she had been amusing herself with him. Thank Heaven! he was man enough to see her arts and despise them. He had felt sorry when she hurt her hand in the wood, and she had thought he admired her. Well, she would discover her mistake tomorrow: he would not waste another afternoon on her. And May had missed him, he was sure. Dear May! he had forgotten till that moment that they were to have begun Milman's Latin Christianity together that afternoon. And she had said nothing-always sweet and unselfish! But he would explain to her how Mrs. Penrhyn had asked him-Here he stopped abruptly, for had she asked him? or had she only granted his unspoken request? Well, it didn't matter now: he would read with May to-morrow and every other day, and he had been right in the beginning about Mrs. Penrhyn. 
                     Then he fell asleep and dreamed a strange mixture of things, more inconsequent even than dreams usually are, for he was always rowing, rowing, and Edith was sitting in the boat and saying, "Go on! go on!" and then suddenly she put out her hand and said, "My hand hurts still: put your lips to it again;" and he popped the oars to take it, and as he did so Edith turned into an enormous volume of the Latin Christianity, and the boat sank like lead, down, down. He struggled to get free, and waked to find the sun streaming in upon him through the window at which he had been seated the night before, and the blinds of which he had forgotten to close. 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER VIII. 
                     MAX did not see Edith at breakfast that morning, which was rather a disappointment, as he, like all people with newly-formed resolutions, was longing to experiment on their strength. It was rather flat to look at an empty chair and talk to May about the new calf, when he might have been defying the arts of Apollyon in the person of a beautiful woman whose voice was like a flute, and who somehow looked, unlike any one else in the world, and he could not throw cold water on her probable intention of making him row her in the afternoon. Well, at all events, he could make up to May for his neglect of yesterday; and he proceeded to do this with so much success that May wasted half her morning in listening to Max's eloquence about something which had been discussed by himself and Edith yesterday, and concerning which Mrs. Penrhyn had given him some new ideas. 
                     The Latin Christianity was duly begun and duly read for two good hours, and Max was just finishing the fiftieth page with a sense of relief which he could not disguise from himself, when a light footfall sounded behind him, and turning his head he saw Edith looking bewitching in a very broad-brimmed hat and with an unusual flush on her cheeks. She was a woman who had a wonderful power of moving, stirring other human beings: her atmosphere seemed charged with some vital force, and there was danger in breathing it. There was nothing about her that jarred a man's idea of what a woman should be: even when she was wrong in a womanly way, she never sinned as a man might; and such women will always find ready forgiveness from men. 
                     But Max shut his eyes and senses resolutely against her: somehow he dimly felt that he had taken the poison from her wound yesterday into his own blood, and must struggle against its influence. She motioned to him not to stop, and threw herself on May's cushion while he finished the chapter. When it was ended Mrs. Bradford approached them. 
                     "Where have you been, dearest mother?" said May. 
                     "To the Ralstons, dear. Poor Mrs. Ralston has a very sick child, and I am afraid I cannot go there again." 
                     "Why not?" said Edith. 
                     "Because, my dear, the doctor says he fears it is diphtheria, and I should probably take it myself, and give it to all of you. Charity begins at home, and I must think of my own children first." 
                     "Poor Mrs. Ralston!" said May. "It seems a dreadful thing for her to be left alone with that horrible disease and those other two little children." 
                     "After all," said Edith, "the process of natural selection, although it has an appearance of harshness about it, and isn't quite one's idea of a paternal government, is far the best one for the race in its ultimate results. If Mrs. Ralston loses this child, the other two, who are probably stronger and finer, will have a better chance." 
                     "A strange sentiment for a woman!" muttered Max between his teeth. 
                     "Not a clerical one, certainly," replied Edith in a coldly satirical manner. "Women and clergymen ought always to agree, I know, Mr. Floyd, but I am an unfortunate exception." 
                     "The Christian theory is," said Max, not without a dash of involuntary pomposity, "that all human creatures are alike God's children, and alike precious and dear to him. How you can reconcile that with Mr. Darwin's blasphemous conjectures you best know, Mrs. Penrhyn." 
                     "You set me a task, Mr. Floyd, that all the wise men of the day have failed to perform. How can I reconcile the irreconcilable? But, after all, I have a notion that when Browning said, 'Those laws are laws which can fulfill themselves,' he was right; and when the laws of Nature and the Bible differ, I am inclined to think Nature right too." 
                     "Your standpoint is so peculiar that it is difficult for me to argue with you," said Max. 
                     "Well, it is not necessary for you to learn how to talk to any one with whom you differ, you know: you will talk only to the faithful in the future; so don't rouse yourself to discomfit me. Once in the pulpit, Mr. Floyd, you will never hear any side of a question but your own;" and Edith, taking Mrs. Bradford's arm, led her aside and began a conversation in an undertone-what about, no one could hear. 
                     As she turned away, Max exclaimed, "There, May! how could I ever respect or like a woman who talks in such a blasphemous, unfeeling way? I declare her heartlessness about those poor little children was absolutely disgusting." 
                     "Oh, Max, she was not more than half in earnest." 
                     "She was enough in earnest to take no interest in them. She is one of those fine ladies who would drive over a baby belonging to a beggar with no more compunction than if it were a fly." 
                     "Oh, Max, you are harsh and unjust." 
                     "If you had seen her face, May-so cold and mocking, such a contrast to yours, all full of sorrow and sympathy!" and he drew May to him and clasped her tight. Praise from Max was very sweet to his cousin, and she nestled close to him as he said the words. 
                     At the moment Edith's dress rustled by them, and they both looked up quickly with a slight sense of confusion. She passed with a smile and touch of her hand on May's head, not noticing Max, and settled herself to read a book which she had in her hand on a rustic seat not far away. When they were summoned to tea she came in tardily, and excused herself on the plea of a French novel which she said she had just received and which was entrancing. "I shall not think of going to bed till I finish it," was her conclusion. "Do you ever read French novels, Mr. Floyd?" and without waiting for his prompt "Never!" added: "Oh no, I forgot you don't read French, and they are not worth reading in English." As soon as the meal was finished she disappeared with her yellow-covered volume, and was seen no more that night. Max saw a light shining from her bed-room window as he closed his own rather late that night, and supposed she was fulfilling her intention of finishing the book before going to bed. 
                     For three successive mornings after the evening when she had begun the novel, Edith came down very late, looking tired and haggard, with dark lines under her eyes, and when questioned tenderly by May, only laughed and said, "I've been having a real burst of dissipation with my box of novels. I feel almost gorged now, however, like an anaconda, and shall soon begin to digest." 
                     Max did not see her till the evening on the first of the three days, and when he did noticed a very powerful and pungent perfume about her. She was a connoisseur in odors, and always used the most unexceptionally delicate ones; so that he did not at first connect it with her, and, having a very sensitive nose, was guilty of the apparent rudeness of sniffing, and saying, "What is it that smells so overpoweringly, May?" 
                     Edith looked up from under her lashes as she lay on the sofa and said languidly, "Dear me! I am very sorry you don't like my new perfume, Mr. Floyd: it's the rage in Paris, and this was sent me as a haute nouveaut with my novels the other day." 
                     Max, who was really a gentleman, bowed and blushed, and said he had not known-he had not meant for an instant to object to it-but he had an unfortunate nose that nothing escaped. 
                     "I think I shall probably get very tired of it," continued Edith: "it's too strong for me, and my fancies rarely outlast three days." 
                     True enough, in three days she seemed to be tired both of novels and perfumes, for on the fourth day she appeared at the dinner-table, and brought no odor with her save that of the fresh flowers she wore in her bosom. Her eyes had lost their weariness, and her color was brighter too, and she declared that she had "forsworn cakes and ale for the present." Even Max felt the charm of her brightness and sweetness, and when at the close of the meal she looked across the table and said, "Have you been on the water lately, Mr. Floyd?-I am fairly aching for a row," it took all his stern accumulated resolve to say with sufficient coldness, "No, I've no time for rowing now, Mrs. Penrhyn: May and I have a standing engagement to read in the afternoon." 
                     May's quick disclaimer of "Oh, Max, if Cousin Edith would like to row-" served no purpose, for Edith only smiled sweetly and said, "By no means would she interfere with their researches: perhaps the boys could row her." But unfortunately the boys had an engagement too with an old school-fellow come to the neighborhood for a few weeks to fish, and it could not be set aside. They were loud in their regrets, and only reconciled to their bad luck by Edith's assurances that she would go with them the next afternoon sans faute. As soon as this promise was made, Edith disappeared to her own quarters, announcing that she was invisible for the rest of the day, having letters to write for the evening mail-letters which her novels had made her neglect for the past few days. Maxwell looked after her retreating figure till the last flutter of her white dress faded from his eyes in the distance, then turned slowly away from the door and resolutely set his face toward the library, where he knew the first volume of Milman lay awaiting him. May met him on the threshold, holding up the book. 
                     "Are you ready?" he said. 
                     "Oh yes," was her answer: "just let me get my work;" and handing him the ponderous tome-ponderous to poor little May in more senses than one-she tripped up stairs. He stood looking after her, and thinking how entirely she was what a woman ought to be. She quite filled his idea of perfection in her sex, and yet- He wondered what it was that made him almost sorry he could not have rowed Mrs. Penrhyn that afternoon: perhaps it was that he felt like having a good hard pull. Yes, that was it-he was sure of it; he had been sitting still all day; it made him ache for exercise; and he stretched himself, and then beat a tattoo on the banister and wished May would come, he felt so restless. Down she came in a moment more, and they were soon settled under their favorite tree in their accustomed seat. May's work was in her fingers and her eyes bent on it: all was tranquil about them, and Max opened the book. He glanced over to the end of the volume. 
                     "Just one more afternoon's reading left in this volume, May," he said, and then began in a rather dogged way to read. He read steadily for perhaps ten minutes, when suddenly he came to an abrupt stop. May looked up quietly to see the reason, and Max met her look with a bright flush of crimson on his cheeks and an exclamation of "May dear, I don't know what ails me, I'm so restless and fidgety." 
                     "Go on reading, Max, and perhaps it will soothe you as you become interested," was her gentle suggestion. 
                     Max took her advice, and read in rather a spasmodic way for another ten minutes; but the recipe proved inefficacious, and at the end of that time he flung the book down in rather a desperate manner, thereby startling May, who was perfecting a neat little darn in a pocket handkerchief, and who, be it confessed, was more lulled by Max's voice than instructed by the learned dean. 
                     "It's of no use, May: I simply can't read. I must walk it off." 
                     "Walk off what, Max dear?" anxiously inquired May. 
                     "Why, this fit of restlessness: it's been coming on me for days, and this is the climax. I must take more exercise: it's the result of this lazy life I lead." 
                     "You walked ten miles yesterday, I'm sure." 
                     "Yes, I know, but it takes more than a ten-mile walk to get me over one of these restless fits." Max had never in his life been possessed by such a feeling of restlessness and necessity for violent action as that afternoon, and so he was not quite honest with his cousin; but he may be pardoned this slight departure from truth. With the mood that possessed him had come an instinct to conceal it, and who of us does not know how new-fledged Love ever hides his head like a frightened bird from beholders, hoping to blind them as well as himself? 
                     "I'll walk it off," Max went on. "Tell Aunt Mary not to wait tea for me;" and in another moment he was striding rapidly away, and was soon lost to sight in the windings of the shady carriage-drive that led to the gate. May folded up her dainty bit of sewing, and with a quick little sigh went back to the house and busied herself with some of her household duties, which were never foremost when Max was by to claim her time and thoughts. 
                   
                
                
                   
                  PART III. 
                   
                     CHAPTER IX. 
                     MAX, meanwhile, strode rapidly out of the gate, and, taking the least frequented road, walked for half a mile till he came to a sequestered wood-path, down which he turned, knowing that he would be unlikely to meet any one for a mile and a half, when it ran into a more public and beaten track. He walked fast, with his head bent down, feeling as if rapid motion and exertion were a relief to him. He scarcely saw, and did not heed at all, the exquisite wood-flowers at the side of the path: he never lingered to look down one of the green tangled vistas of light and shade that opened upon him at every slight turn in the path. He hardly paused to take breath till, as the path took a sudden turn to the right, he came in sight at once of the road into which it merged and of a small house set back in the woods. His eyes fell upon a woman seated in a rocking-chair just outside the door, with a child in her arms, slowly rocking it to and fro, and singing softly the while. He remembered suddenly that this was the cottage of Mrs. Ralston, the poor woman of whose child's illness his aunt had spoken, and, moved by a kindly impulse, he stepped forward to the little gate, and leaning upon it said, with sympathy in his voice, "Good-afternoon, Mrs. Ralston. How is your sick child?" 
                     "He's much better to day, thank you, Mr. Floyd," replied the woman. (She knew Maxwell well by sight as the young divinity student and the nephew of Mrs. Bradford, and his profession lent an additional respect to the tone of her reply.) "Poor little fellow! I sit here with him in the fresh air all my spare time: it seems to make him more alive-like," she added. 
                     "So, that is the child in your arms?" said Max with some interest as he looked at the wan little face, and noticed the lustreless eyes and hollow cheeks of the child as it lay on its mother's lap. 
                     "Yes, sir, this is the boy. I didn't think four days ago he'd he here now. The Lord is very Merciful." 
                     "It must have been very hard for you all alone here," said Max, with a pang of self-reproach going through him as he remembered that one of the most sacred duties of his future profession was to help the sick, and yet he had hardly given a second thought to this woman in her trial till this accident brought her before him. 
                     "You may well say that, sir. For the first day I was wellnigh desperate, what with the other children here, and no one to help me at home or take them away, for of course it's a very dangerous disease, and I couldn't look to have folks running any risk for a poor body like me. But after that, when that blessed angel-I can't call her no other-came and took the night-nursing right off my hands, and brought me food and drink, and tied that stuff about the children's necks too, so that they were protected, why then I got along better; and now the danger is all past, the doctor says. Heaven bless her and her goodness to me!" 
                     "What do you mean?" said Max in a bewildered way; and then, as a sudden dread and suspicion seized him, he exclaimed, "Good Heavens, woman! You don't mean that May-that Miss Bradford-has been here and run the terrible risk?" 
                     "No, indeed, I don't, sir," said Mrs. Ralston with a slight flush of resentment at his tone. "Miss Bradford's a nice young lady, and I'm not for saying naught against her; but she's not one of those to put their heads in a lion's mouth. No, no: it was the strange lady from New York. I don't rightly know her name: she lives in the little lodge on Mrs. Bradford's place." 
                     "Tell me all about it, will you?" said Max rather hoarsely, coming in the gate and leaning against the tree under which Mrs. Ralston was sitting, his face half turned away from her. 
                     "Well, sir, you see, I was sitting with the child in my arms that first evening, and the poor little creature was very ill. The doctor had just been here and shook his head over him, and gone away, and the other two were asleep in their beds: it was the night of the day I saw Mrs. Bradford and told her how the doctor said Willy had the diphtheria, and I felt more alone than ever before in my life. I knew no one would come to me for love or money with that disease in the house, and when I thought of the long night before me my heart grew sore. Just then a tap came at the door, and in came a lady all in white: she looked 'most like a spirit, and I stood up and said, 'You'd better keep out of here, for there's sickness here, and maybe death.' You see, I spoke short-like, for I thought she'd go at once when she heard what was the matter. 'That's just what brought me,' she said softly. 'I heard you were in trouble, and as I am a neighbor I came over to see if I could help you.' 'Perhaps if you knew it's diphtheria that's here, you wouldn't be so obliging,' said I, rather rudely I'm afraid. 'I've seen it before,' she said: 'I'm not afraid;' and then she threw off a kind of cloak she was wrapped in, and in about five minutes she had the boy in her lap. Somehow, she took the management right away, and when she had made me tell her what the doctor had ordered, brandy and beef-tea-things I hadn't, nor couldn't get-she went out and called a woman who was waiting outside and sent her for them. Then she said, 'Mrs. Ralston, I came to help you take care of this boy of yours, and I want to take the night-nursing, for I can't well be here in the daytime. You must go to sleep, and I will call you at five o'clock, when I must go home.' For all I could say, she had her way, for somehow she was like a queen over me; and you may think it strange, but, though my boy was so sick, I slept sound, for I was tired to my heart's core, and the lady gave me a kind of feeling as if she knew what she was about. 
                     "It would be long to tell it all. She came the next night and the next, and then the doctor said Willy was going to get well; so yesterday she said, 'I won't come to-night, Mrs. Ralston, but I'll see you soon.' Ever since the sun seems to have gone out of the cottage. She did everything, and it's all along of her that the boy got well and the children didn't take it; for she tied some strong-smelling stuff about their necks and about mine and her own, and said it would keep away the infection; and so it has, for we've none of us even a sore throat." 
                     As Mrs. Ralston went on, amplifying and repeating in a stream of grateful enthusiasm, Max stood and listened like one in a trance. He never moved or turned his head as she spoke, but at length, when she had for the hundredth time said that "she was sent by the Lord, and was an angel if ever there was one," he said abruptly and suddenly, "Thank you, Mrs. Ralston, for telling me: I sha'n't soon forget it. Good-night!" and went with quick steps out of the little gate and down the road beyond. 
                     Mrs. Ralston looked after him rather astonished, and said to herself, after a long meditative pause, "I wonder if he was vexed at what I said about May Bradford? They do say she's to marry him some day. Well, I can't help it. I'll uphold it-for it's true-the lady at the lodge is an angel on earth if ever there was one;" and so she turned indoors with her boy in her arms. 
                     Max walked down the road till he came to a little wood-path which he well knew, and into which he turned. There was an old log lying by the side: he remembered it, and thought he would sit there for a while. He must sit still and think. Soon it was reached, and he sat down on it and put his head in his hands. His thoughts were chaotic at first, and his brain seemed whirling: it was all so incredible, so strange, yet it was true. Yes, while he had been judging and condemning Mrs. Penrhyn for her light words, but had never once thought of doing anything for the poor woman who was in such a strait, Edith had ministered to her, and had been even as one of God's own angels coming and going in secret and with power. How unjust he had been to her! and how she must despise him! Ah, no wonder she thought poorly of religious professions, she who was so much better a Christian than they all, and who made no professions. A cloud rolled from his eyes, a great light shone around about him, and all his hardness and prejudice and narrow-mindedness toward her seemed to leave him. The reaction was as intense as the bias had been extreme, and as his thoughts took shape they seemed to resolve themselves into one idea: he must go to her, must fall at her feet, must acknowledge his evil, unjust thoughts, and ask her forgiveness. Like a convert of old, he burned to make his confession and hear words of absolution. As he sat there, with every barrier broken down, with his defences utterly destroyed, Love, who always finds out the way, entered his softened heart and found no rebel against his sovereignty. Max did not say to himself, "I love her," but he felt it. And why should he not love her? His perversity and antagonism of the past weeks turned their weapons against him in her cause; and when at last he sprang to his feet he was possessed with one purpose, filled with an intense, burning desire to seek Edith and tell her all. He did not look beyond that moment, he was mastered by the first imaginative and passionate emotion of his life, and he was "transported beyond this visible present." He trembled as his exalted fancy pictured her scorn and indifference, and then his strong man's courage rose to help him: he would convince her, in her own despite, of the sincerity and depth of his feelings. He looked at his watch and saw that the tea-hour was past: he would go back at once, and as soon as he had accounted for himself to his aunt he would seek Mrs. Penrhyn at her cottage. He could not speak to her alone at the house. 
                     So he set his face homeward. The ground flew under his long strides, and yet he could not compass the distance with sufficient rapidity to satisfy him. The avenue gate was fastened: he vaulted over it, and ran the last few hundred yards, only checking his pace as he came in sight of the piazza, where he could dimly discern several figures. It was too dark to distinguish if Edith were there, and his heart gave a bound at the possibility; but in a moment more he had reached the steps, and saw that Mrs. Penrhyn was absent. May and Mrs. Bradford came forward to greet their runaway-the one with a playful remonstrance, the other with an anxious inquiry if anything had happened. 
                     "Nothing, dear aunt. I forgot how far I was from home, and dreamed away an hour in the woods," was his answer to the latter; and to May he replied by a deprecating "You know, May, how restless I was, and I thought I had better walk it off." 
                     "Well, sir, come to your tea, but you must go up stairs first." 
                     "Indeed I must," said Max, looking at his rather dusty boots and tumbled linen with a rueful glance: it would take him half an hour more to make a toilet in which he could approach his new-found goddess. He had forgotten his condition. 
                     "I only want a cup of tea, May," he called out as he ran up stairs three steps at a time. When he came down he had decided what his excuse should be for going to the lodge, for excuse he must have: he would say that he had a handkerchief of Mrs. Penrhyn's which he had found in the wood. This clumsy and transparent device he looked upon as a triumph of art, and came down with perfect composure prepared to make his coup as soon as he had swallowed his tea and chatted for a few moments with his aunt and cousin. But Max's finesse was doomed to be a failure. After a few minutes of elaborately easy talk, he said, with as much carelessness as he could command, but with a rising flush which the kind darkness hid, "By the way, where is Mrs. Penrhyn to-night?" 
                     "She went home at once when tea was finished," said May. 
                      
                     "Oh! I found a handkerchief of hers in the wood, and might as well walk down to the lodge with it: it's early yet, and it won't take me five minutes." 
                     "You are very gallant, suddenly, Max," said May, laughing: "I suppose you're beginning to be sorry for the way you've neglected Cousin Edith. But you must wait till to-morrow to make amends, for she said she had a headache and didn't want any of us to-night." 
                     Max felt almost sickened at this sudden disappointment: he could scarcely command his voice to say in reply, "Very well, I'll give it to her to-morrow." 
                     He was conscious, in spite of his imperious desire to break through all obstacles and go to her, that, considering his former terms with Mrs. Penrhyn, he could not insist on intruding on her without rousing some suspicion in May's mind as to his present state of feeling. For a few minutes he sat without speaking, and as he sat had formed his plan. He would wait till bedtime-they kept early hours, thank Heaven!-and then, when once safe in the solitude of his own room, he could let himself down by the boughs of the walnut tree outside and go to Edith: she would not be in bed, and he would see her, if only long enough for a word. He could not wait till to-morrow. Then he set himself to the task of making conversation, and managed to amuse both the ladies most successfully. Never had an hour seemed so long to Max in his life as this one. His thoughts wandered perpetually to Edith, and it took all his new-born power of dissimulation to conceal his preoccupation. At last the clock struck ten, and jumping up briskly he said he had some writing to do, and had better be off. This was such a common remark for him to make at this hour that it induced no comment; and after a goodnight kiss to both he found himself in a few moments in his own room, the door locked. 
                     At last he was free, and now to lose no time. He had soon swung himself on to the end of a bough, and a few minutes sufficed to land him on the grass at the foot of the tree. Stealthily he crept along under the shadows of the avenue till he reached the little gate that gave entrance to the enclosure immediately about the lodge. He had satisfied himself before he started, by a rapid reconnoissance from his window, that no light shone in Edith's bed-room, and he felt sure of finding her in her little library. He crept to the window and saw that the room was lighted only by a cluster of wax candles on a table. Edith's lounge was drawn under their light, and she lay upon it reading. 
                     As Max gazed on her and saw the dark lines of fatigue under her beautiful eyes and noted the paleness of her cheek. how his heart smote him as he thought how that look had come to her face! While his eyes were still riveted upon her she let her book fall in her lap and uttered a slight sigh of weariness. It broke the spell, and Max quickly turned back and opened the front door with a rather tremulous hand. As he found himself in front of the door of the library in which she was, his courage almost failed him: he hesitated, and felt as if even then he must turn back, when a slight noise made by his hand on the knob roused Edith from her reverie, and she called out in her silvery voice, "Who's there?" There was no alternative now but immediate entrance or ignominious flight, and Max opened the door and stood before her. 
                     "You, Mr. Floyd!" exclaimed Edith. "Is anything the matter? is any one ill at the house?" And she half rose from her sofa. 
                     "No, no," he stammered, "nothing is wrong;" and then, as the blood rushed even to the roots of his hair, "I came to see you for myself, Mrs. Penrhyn." 
                     She made no reply, but remained looking at him in mute astonishment. 
                     "I saw Mrs. Ralston this afternoon," he went on hurriedly-all his meditated eloquence had deserted him, he felt almost choked-"and she told me about you, and I came to beg your forgiveness for my injustice-to tell you how much I admire your conduct-to-to-." He could get no farther. 
                     Edith was beginning to see how it was, but her manner showed no sign of the fact. "Thank you very much for your good opinion," she said calmly: "it must be worth having or you would not have insisted upon seeing me to-night. They told you at the house, no doubt, that I was invisible. What excuse did you make to get here?" 
                     The suddenness of the question took Max so by surprise that he found but the truth wherewith to answer, and stammered out, "I let myself down by the walnut tree outside my window and came across the avenue: they had all gone to bed." 
                     Edith smiled: "And risked breaking your neck for a point of conscience? Really, Mr. Floyd, I could have waited till to-morrow morning to be told that you did me the honor not to think me a heartless brute any longer." 
                     It was too much for Max: her mocking one struck a nerve and it quivered through him. The tears would spring to his eyes, though he tried hard to choke them back as he said, "Oh, Mrs. Penrhyn, you misunderstand me cruelly." 
                     "Do I?" she said quite gently, for his emotion was too evident not to be visible to her quick eyes. "Then sit down here and explain yourself;" and she motioned him to a stool at her feet. In a moment he had thrown himself on his knees, and with a broken voice he cried, "Please take pity on me. I know I have been an intolerable fool, and that I deserve nothing but contempt from you; but if you but knew how I have suffered since this afternoon, you would forgive me; and now that I see it all-all your goodness and loveliness, and what a fool I have been-I am punished enough by the thought of my own obstinate, stupid blindness, Mrs. Penrhyn. Only forgive me! Let me hear you say that some day-not now, but some day-you will like me a little. I will work for your favor as no man ever worked, and you will teach me to be what you like, now that the scales have fallen from my eyes. Only tell me that you do not quite despise me, and I will ask nothing more now." 
                     Edith was moved, or at all events pleased, excited, interested. It was a sensation, and she had had none for so long! She had almost forgotten how it sounded to hear a man's heart in his voice. She put her hand lightly on Max's bowed head and said, "Indeed, I forgive you, if I have anything to forgive. I think you will never again judge a fellow-creature by appearances." 
                     "Never, never, so long as I live. And you really forgive me?" 
                     "Yes: there is my hand on it;" and she transferred her delicate fingers from his head-to his grasp, she intended, but he caught her hand and kissed it again and again, not quietly and softly, but with a young man's first burning love-kisses. Edith felt that she must go no farther, and with her natural power of retreating from a leap she said, with a quick but not abrupt change of manner, "And now tell me about your evil thoughts of me, and how good Mrs. Ralston managed to disperse them." 
                     Max, who was shy and simple as any lad, obeyed her, and, seated on the stool at her side, looking up into her face while she lay back on her pillows, he told her it had all come upon him; and then she told him about her device of the French novels being a pure fiction, and how she had trembled when he commented on her perfume, thinking he might recognize it as a well-known aromatic drug used for such purposes; and they laughed like a couple of children over her quick fabrication of "the new perfume just from Paris." All was smooth between them now-smooth as the grassy side of a precipice. Edith was his queen and he her subject, and she had a keen pleasure in gazing into his mind and heart, always meeting her own reflection therein mirrored. 
                     Max was in Paradise: no doubts or fears assailed him now. He was sailing on a summer sea, and with all sails set, toward some "golden isle of Eden." The time went by till a little French clock beside them rang out the hour of midnight. Max started: he had not yet forgotten his proprieties. "I must not keep you up," he said. "I did not know it was so late." 
                     Edith rose without a word, and went with him to the door. The moon was shining brightly and cloudlessly. Edith looked at it for a moment, and then said, half to herself, "What a night for the water!" 
                     "Would you go? would it be too late?" he exclaimed eagerly: his eyes said more than his words. 
                     "I can't resist it," she said with another look at the moon: "wait till I get my wraps." She ran back, and in a few seconds they had started for the boat. The water was still, the moon shone in full splendor, and as Max slowly but steadily pulled the boat out under her beams and looked at Edith lying on her shawls with the silver light upon her, he thought himself indeed in some enchanted land. It was a night to remember, and he never forgot it. They talked but little. He was silent from fullness of delight: for the moment his cravings were stilled, only to wake to fiercer life on the morrow. She was silent, partly from an instinct that told her she was on dangerous ground, and partly because her mood was dreamy. It was very sweet, she thought, to have some one with her who understood her well enough for her to be silent with him. What a generous, impulsive creature he was! And she smiled a sweet grateful smile as she remembered his burst of the evening, and turning met his eyes fixed on her with his soul welling out of them. For the time Max was content: he only asked to love her. We all know how much fuller the love we give fills the heart than that which is given to us, and his was full to overflowing. 
                     "A dangerous amusement," thought Edith as she laid her head down that night; "but what is pleasure without a spice of danger? I regard Mr. Floyd as mine par droit de conqute." 
                     "I know what heaven is like now," murmured Max to himself as he fell asleep. "I did not think there could be anything so perfect on earth." 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER X. 
                     IF Max's prejudice had been extreme, his dislike great, the reaction that took place in him was equally so. Heart, mind and spirit seemed to lay down their powers at her feet to whom he had at last yielded unconditionally. The moment that his love for Edith laid him open to her influence his whole nature became sensible of the contact of a superior in mind and cultivation. There was something peculiarly delightful to Mrs. Penrhyn's world-worn palate in the fresh, pure draught which Max held to her lips, and she enjoyed the rare pleasure of teaching and guiding his mind, as well as the more ordinary excitement of receiving his ardent homage. She was everything by turns to him; and though it required no effort of the imagination for any man to make a goddess of Edith Penrhyn, yet to no man had she ever before seemed a saint. Max regarded her as the incarnation of all perfection, and sometimes Edith had a strange half pang of self-reproach when the boy would evidence his reverence and adoration for her by some extravagant burst of feeling. Had she loved him her feeling had been akin to that so eloquently described by Victor Hugo in his tragedy of Marion de Lorme. Didier, her lover, ignorant that his mistress and the celebrated courtesan are one and the same woman, cries out in horror at the sight of a book dedicated to Marion on the table of the creature whom he loves, and whose purity in his eyes is also that of "the icicle that hangs on Dian's temple." But she did not love him: she took his love as he gave it, freely and without thought of the future; but while his was the abandonment of passion, hers was but the carelessness of selfishness. 
                     Max made no secret of his devotion to Edith. He was with her incessantly, and when not with her was reading her books, thinking her thoughts, doing her errands-in every sense of the words "living unto her." He had come under her intellectual influence at a most unfortunate time of his life, and one by one the convictions upon which his religious faith rested sickened and died in the deadly atmosphere of doubt which Edith carried with her. Her mind was rich in all those destructive intellectual missiles which, cast into any one's field of thought, explode only to scatter dismay and ruin about them. She planted the roots of a negative theology in Max's mind, and started him on a voyage of discovery on a tempestuous sea, in an open boat without either oars or rudder. But while all this dreary work was going on, Max was filled so full with love and joy that he was unconscious of his losses. The wealth of happiness Edith bestowed upon him was so great that he had no consciousness of any other want. To be in her presence, to hear her voice, to see her face, were to him the perfection of happiness. He asked but little of Edith, so far as the usual encroachments of men go, and she appreciated, even while it amused her, the exalted character of the feeling that made him kiss her hand with a flush and tremor. "He will outgrow all that," she said to herself: "meanwhile it is very sweet." 
                     Day by day Max's feeling for Mrs. Penrhyn struck deeper and deeper into his heart, while she plucked the blossoms from the fair outgrowth only to wear them a day and then cast them carelessly away. But that time had not yet come, and until it should come Max was on a pinnacle of bliss. Mrs. Bradford saw, as indeed she could not help seeing, that he had fallen in love with her cousin, and she was surprised and somewhat displeased at Edith's acceptance of his devotion. It did not suit her notions, and, though Mrs. Penrhyn's nonchalant self-possession afforded her no opportunity of expressing her disapprobation, she could not help showing it by a slight access of dignity in her manner to the offender. Mrs. Penrhyn took no notice of this beyond staying rather more at home and giving endless tte--ttes to Max both morning and evening, instead of persisting in her former custom of spending her time with the family party. But, although Max awakened no strong feeling for himself in Mrs. Penrhyn's heart, nothing indeed beyond a fleeting fancy, he roused what had lain dormant for weeks past-her native love of excitement. Refreshed by its slumber, it rose like a giant in its might within her, and Max had no power to lay it. Edith had fed too long on stronger food for the love of a boy to satisfy her, and whatever emotion she gained from the possession of his heart and soul soon waned to a shadow when she had once fathomed the depths and scaled the heights of his nature. For a while, Max was really her object in life, so long as he was new to her. No two hearts are just alike, and while his individuality was unexhausted she was absorbed by the possession of it. But when she had once learned the lesson of his nature, when she knew beforehand what effect softness or coquetry or coldness would have upon him, her interest died out; but with it the thirst for excitement did not die, and she began to wonder when she might safely bring Dr. Wadsworth's prescription to a close and begin her old life again. 
                     Poor Max! He did not dream of this, and while he was still swimming in a sea of glory, one beautiful morning the mail brought Edith a letter which gave the clench to her resolution of breaking up the monotony of her present life. The letter was from Thornton Raymond. Many a time Edith had thought of him that summer, and wondered if he had gone for ever. She did not want to lose him. Since that fit of restlessness had come over her she had thought oftener of him, and once began a note to him, but changed her mind and tore it up when half finished. 
                     Edith's eyes sparkled as they had not done for many a day as she ran over Raymond's characteristic note. It was short and in these words: 
                     "I cannot help writing to you, though I've tried hard, Edith, but it's of no use: everything and every one bores me without you. Are you not thirsty for the champagne you talked about? Perhaps you have taken to drinking spring-water? Don't be silent any longer: silence kills me. Write and snub me if you like, but say something to give me an interest in life again. You always have my address. "Yours always, T. R." 
                     Edith, who always allowed herself the dangerous luxury of letting her impulse run away with her, wrote an answer within five minutes after receiving this note. She only said: 
                     "The spring-water is very good here, Thornton-very pure, cool and fresh; but if your champagne is very fine you may come and open one bottle for me. I will promise to taste it, if no more. "E. P." 
                     The letter was tossed into the mailbag, and when Max met her at dinner he noticed that the languor which had brooded over her of late had been supplanted by a sort of sparkle that played over her face and manner. His spirits rose with hers, and when they started for a row which he had urged her to take that afternoon they were both as radiant and joyous as two children. The afternoon was beautiful, Edith gracious and bewitching, and Max felt as if the boat were a fairy boat, and hardly knew that he was pulling her along. 
                     As they neared the shore again, Edith said, "I expect a friend of mine here soon." 
                     "I should like to know any one who is a friend of yours," said Max tenderly. "What is her name?" 
                     "It's not a she," said Edith with a tinge of embarrassment: "it's a he-Mr. Raymond of New York." 
                     Max looked up quickly: "I did not know you had any men friends: I mean, any intimate ones." 
                     "I have a great many," she replied composedly, "or have had: unfortunately, one has to speak of some friends as things of the past." 
                     "Then they were not real friends," cried Max. 
                     "I don't know," said Edith. "A feeling may be perfectly genuine and deep, and yet be ephemeral." 
                     "I don't think so. But to go back to this friend of yours who is not yet, at least, a part of the past." 
                     "He comes for a few days soon." 
                     "How soon?" 
                     "I hardly know: as soon as he gets my letter he will start," she said musingly. 
                     "Did you send for him?" said Max in a low voice. 
                     Edith looked at him before she answered. He was white to his lips: it was his first pang of jealousy. "This won't do," she thought: "I can't have my life made miserable by these two men quarreling over me. I'll snub Max now, poor fellow! I hate to do it, but he must learn that he can't keep a woman who doesn't love him to himself. I believe, in my soul, that all men are born Turks concerning women." These thoughts passed through her mind with lightning-like rapidity, and she answered Max's question with but a slight pause, looking at him still as she did so: "You mustn't make a grand inquisitor of yourself, Mr. Floyd. I hate being catechised, and never answer questions." 
                     "I beg your pardon," muttered Max: "I had no right." 
                     "I hope you will like Mr. Raymond," Edith went on, not noticing his agitation: "he is rather a lion in his way, and a very accomplished man of the world." 
                     Max tried to say something civil and commonplace, and then instinctively began to pull in shore. As they walked toward the lodge, Edith talked about all imaginable subjects easily and lightly, but to no effect: the evil spirit would not be laid. At the door they paused, and Max was turning to go without a word when Edith detained him by a gesture, and looking into his eyes said softly, "Are you jealous of Mr. Raymond? You need not be. Don't you trust me?" 
                     The words were simply chosen and vague in meaning: they contained no pledge, scarcely an assurance, but they brought back joy to Max's heart, and the sun shone again for him as he answered with all the soul in his voice, "I trust you perfectly;" and then stooping he kissed her dress and was gone. 
                     "That will not keep him from being very unhappy while Thornton is here," murmured Edith to herself. "Well, I will not attempt to manage things beforehand. Let me see: he will be here to-morrow night. I will have a late dinner, and ask Max to meet him: that will please him and the proprieties at once. Heigh-ho! Poor Max! he bores me a little now. I never was meant to teach, or to learn either, I fear." 
                     Edith's invitation was duly given the next morning, and accepted eagerly by Max, who, in the simplicity of his heart, thought, "She cannot care for Mr. Raymond or she would rather meet him alone than ask me to join the party." He understood nothing of the contradiction of feeling that induces a woman to postpone the climax that she desires. But Pain, the great teacher, was soon to begin his education. 
                     Edith spent the day alone: it was her mood to be alone, and, like all her moods, when it came she indulged it. Max too longed for solitude, and spent his day in walking far and wide, only coming in to make a more elaborate toilet than usual for the dinner to which he was bidden. 
                     Edith had sent a carriage to the station for Raymond, and he was shown at once to a room on his arrival, with the announcement that dinner would be ready in half an hour. Edith was no lover of Arcadian simplicity, and hated to dispense with the lesser conventionalities of life almost as much as she liked to trample upon the larger ones. On no account would she have received Thornton dusty and wayworn from the train, and the artificial atmosphere of form was perfectly preserved, even in her simple little mnage at the lodge. "Luxuries are never out of place when they are incongruous with their surroundings: they are only intensified," was one of Edith's sayings, and she practically carried it out. 
                     When Mr. Raymond entered the parlor he found Max and Edith already there. Not a sign of the annoyance he felt at not finding Mrs. Penrhyn alone was to be seen in his manner: he greeted her frankly and cordially, and bowed to Max courteously enough. So imperturbable was his bearing that Max said to himself, "He is only a friend, after all," thinking that he could not have greeted her so quietly had all the world been standing by. So they went to dinner, and for a while Edith and Thornton played at the battledore and shuttlecock of conversation lightly and gracefully enough, while Max listened and wondered how they learned the game, for somehow he had a dim sense that they were playing a game. He had never seen the society side of Mrs. Penrhyn before, and though she was charming to him in this way as in all ways, he had that uneasy, half-frightened feeling that always comes when one we love shows us a side unknown to us before-the fear lest this new creature will not love with the old love, till some look or tone of the old self reassures our hearts. 
                     But while Max was half bewildered, half charmed, Raymond's self-control began to melt like wax under the fire of Edith's looks and tones. Never had she been in a mood more responsive to his influence, and he grew momently more sensible of it, while with the consciousness came a rush of impatience and irritation at her waywardness in having brought that fellow here just to thwart him. He had not come for this, nor would he bear it. Thornton had no chivalry in his nature, and so none in his love, and there was an absolute want of idealism in it too. His flowers must always be plucked, and sometimes with very rude hands: he never could content himself with breathing in their fragrance, and pasture his soul on the mere contemplation of their beauty. So, as the dinner went on and the time went by, his manner gradually lost its cordial ease and grew abrupt and impatient; his eyes lost their inexpressiveness and sparkled on Edith; his mouth ceased to smile, and quivered with eager feeling while he strove to set it firm and hard. 
                     Edith felt the change, and tried to keep him, in racing parlance, "steady;" but he had got the bit between his teeth, and the pace grew harder as he went on. As the wine went round, Max mechanically refused it after a glass or two, and when he saw Edith allow the servant to pour out glass after glass of champagne and drink it in long draughts, he looked at her with an involuntary expression of astonishment. She did not see it, but Raymond did, and having reached a point of impatience when he was ready to say or do almost anything, he laughed aloud and said, "Mr. Floyd seems surprised at your powers as a wine-drinker, ma toute belle, but he does not know you as well as I, or he would think nothing of a few glasses of champagne." 
                     Until that moment, although his tone and manner had verged on familiarity, he had studiously addressed her as Mrs. Penrhyn, and his words were like a thunderbolt in the ears of Max, who flushed with anger and moved restlessly in his seat. 
                     Raymond was quick enough to interpret his expression of face, and had a secret sense of delight come over him as he thought, "So she has made this young sprig love her, and he has the insolence to be jealous of me! I shouldn't wonder if he called me to account shortly. Let me see if I can't make her choose between us." 
                     Edith's only reply to his comment was, "Mr. Floyd has learned already that I am not made quite in conformity to set rules, Thornton. I don't think he is so easily astonished." 
                     "I intended no criticism by my looks, believe me, on anything that you saw fit to do, Mrs. Penrhyn," Max said, turning to her and speaking gravely; and then, looking across at Thornton, he said pointedly, "Pray do not interpret my face again, Mr. Raymond: we might differ as to its meaning." 
                     "Very possibly," replied Thornton coolly, "but in a multitude of counselors, you know, lies wisdom." 
                     Max opened his mouth for an angry rejoinder, but Edith spoke quickly: "Come, Mr. Raymond, confess that if a man's house is his castle, a man's face is at least as much his own property." 
                     "If you will let me look at your face and tell you what I see in it," said Thornton, with a glance that brought the color to her cheeks, "I will swear not even to see Mr. Floyd's. But, to go back to wine," he went on, without waiting for the answer which she strove to make, "when will you try my champagne as you promised?" 
                     "Not to-night, I think," said Edith coldly. 
                     "Oh, well, then, we must make the most of this;" and he motioned his servant to fill his glass. Raymond was growing reckless, and Edith longed for the dinner to come to an end: there was a storm in the air. 
                     "What is your profession, Mr. Floyd?" said Thornton suddenly. 
                     "I am studying for the ministry," replied Max, for the first time in his life wishing he had some other answer to make. 
                     "Indeed! I did not know it. I feat I have talked even as the ungodly. I never dreamed of finding Mrs. Penrhyn's table graced by one of the cloth. Don't look as if I were misrepresenting you, madam: we all know what you think of clergymen as a rule. Let me tell you, Mr. Floyd, what she said once, so that you may fully appreciate the honor of being an exception to such a rule;" and, spite of Edith's imploring "Thornton, what are you saying?" he went on: "This is her definition of a clergyman: 'A creature who disdains masculine virtues only that he may feign feminine ones, and who is in reality the possessor of neither.' Good! wasn't it? but severe." 
                     "I hardly think Mr. Floyd can care for a compliment to himself at the expense of his profession," said Edith, hurriedly stealing a look at Max, who sat petrified. 
                     "Oh, one can forgive a woman any error in doctrine if she but believes in one's self. Isn't it so, Mr. Floyd?" said Thornton. 
                     Max muttered something in reply, and Raymond went on: "But, ma belle, I haven't yet told you about the fancy ball at Newport: it was a success in every one's eyes but mine. I thought of nothing but the one last year, when you went as a bacchante. Heavens! how superb you were! I vow one could believe in a religion of which such creatures were the priestesses." 
                     "Then you think me one of a crowd, Mr. Raymond?" said Edith haughtily. 
                     "You know what I think of you very well, and that were I Bacchus I would have but one altar, and you should serve it eternally;" and his eyes glowed as they rested on her. She returned his gaze, and for one moment they both forgot that they were not alone. But for a moment: the next, Max was on his feet, his head whirling, his heart leaping within his breast, with just enough self-command to say, "You will excuse me," to Edith, "I must go;" and then he had left the room. For the first instant they were both silent, Thornton surprised and Edith startled-the next heard Thornton's exclamation of "What luck! I never hoped for such success. Fairly driven away! See what it is to be ungodly." 
                     "Come away from here: it is stifling in this room," said Edith, and led him to the library. 
                     Max had burst away with one thought, the desire to be alone while he grappled with the knowledge that had come to him. The veil had been torn from before his idol, and lo! its feet were of clay. For an hour he wandered in the woods, all the images evoked by Raymond's wild talk thronging about him. Edith was dethroned in his mind. His religion was shattered, for she had been its living centre, and she was gone. She had never lived: indeed, it had all been a dream. What! the woman the hem of whose garment he felt honored to kiss could let that profane reveler speak to her as he might to-and Max ground his teeth at the thought-almost to his mistress! And she had gone to a ball-where this man and others like him crowded round her-as a bacchante, the type of license and unbridled passion! Great God! His head was on fire, his heart was bursting. He laughed aloud in bitterness. But he must drink the cup to the dregs: he would see her once more, and he would see her that night. This resolution once formed, he threw himself down under a tree and lay motionless, his face buried in his hands, till the time should pass. At last he rose: it must be time now for that man to go, and yet he would not trust his own estimate. He looked at his watch: yes, it was late enough for him to go back, and he retraced his steps toward the lodge. As he did so the memory rushed over him of the night when he had stolen from his room, overflowing with eager penitence, to gain forgiveness from the woman who then seemed as if set on an eminence above the world in his eyes. How different now, when his heart was filled with naught but accusation and bitterness! He quickened his steps, and soon reached the cottage. As he stood without in the still night he could hear the low murmur of two voices within. He had not gone, then; but Max steeled himself to wait: it could not be long now. Half an hour went by, every moment seeming winged with lead to his weary soul, and then the door opened and a man's shadow fell upon the moonlit step. 
                     "What a night for the water!" said Edith's voice. 
                     "Will you go out on it?" asked Raymond. 
                     "No, no, I'm too tired," she said softly; and then, "I've rowed a great deal this summer." 
                     "What! with your sprig of divinity?" laughed Raymond. 
                     "Come now, Thornton, you behaved very ill to him: confess it." 
                     "Perhaps so, but I was not responsible. You drive me mad sometimes, Edith." 
                     "Don't put your sins on my shoulders: I've enough of my own to carry. Now go." 
                     " demain," he said, kissing her hand. 
                     "If I don't change my mind to-night," she said with a smile. "Suppose we say au plaisir?" 
                     "We won't quarrel about words," was his answer. And so they parted. 
                     Edith had gained the library door, and her hand was on the handle, when a voice said behind her, "May I speak to you?" 
                     She turned and saw Max's pale face like a Nemesis behind her. 
                     "It is rather late," she said coldly, "but come in, if you will." 
                     Her manner was like ice. He followed her into the library, and she threw herself into an easy-chair and motioned him to a seat with the words, "Is it anything thing particular, Mr. Floyd? I'm so sleepy." 
                     Her cold insolence of manner galled him to the quick, as she meant it should, for Edith, though she had given no sign, felt that Max was shocked, and resented it as only a woman like her can resent such treason. Nothing but despotism satisfied her. But as she had never realized the heights upon which Max had placed her, nor the depth of his feeling for her, so she had no conception of what the revelation of that evening had been to him, nor what havoc it had wrought within his soul. He grew whiter than before as she spoke, and, refusing the chair by a gesture, leant against the wall for an instant while she sat calmly waiting, and then straightening his figure to its full height, said, "I could not wait till to-morrow to see you. I came to ask but one question: is it all true?" 
                     "Be more explicit," she said coldly. "Is all what true?" 
                     "All that that man said-all that I thought I saw in your face? Oh, Edith-Mrs. Penrhyn!" he cried, all the self-control he had gained with so hard a struggle swept away by his agony, "tell me that it was a lie-that I dreamed it-that it was only to try my faith-anything but that it is true." 
                     Breathless he awaited her answer; it came slowly and distinctly: "I do not recognize your right to ask me such a question, Mr. Floyd; but I will answer you, for you are very young and very unhappy. It was all true that Mr. Raymond said of me to-day. I am no saint, and I have never posed for one in your eyes. If you have mistaken me for one, tant pis pour vous. I am very sorry that so hard a lesson should come to you through me, but I cannot hold myself responsible for it. Sooner or later you would have learned that human beings are not made to be stretched on the Procrustean bed of a narrow theology, and why not learn it now?" Her voice rang clear and cold as she said these words. 
                     Max looked at her stupefied. Was this his Edith of the night before? A flash of fury ran through his veins, and he exclaimed, "You cannot treat me in this way! My heart is worth something. I will not let you wreck my life, and then say, 'I am not accountable to you.' You have taught me to love you, you have accepted my love, and-" 
                     "Stop one moment," said Edith rising "and listen to me, Mr. Floyd. I made no effort to gain your love. I submitted to your injustice and dislike with a good grace: this you will confess. An accident brought about a change, a reaction in your feeling toward me-an accident for which I was in no way responsible. Then you idealized me. I told you again and again that I was only a woman, and a very human one, but you would have it that I was a goddess. It made you very happy to have something to worship, and I consented to serve as your idol, for I too have been young, and know what a luxury it is to indulge in these delusions. Still, I did it under protest. Am I to be held responsible for not being what you chose to think me? Even if I had loved you"-and her voice took a sarcastic tone under which, he winced-"I should not let you call me to account for my short-comings. Neither as a lover nor as a father confessor do I look for absolution from you, Mr. Floyd. But I am very sorry for you, and a little sorry for myself. Hereafter you will think of me as the embodiment of feminine wickedness, and make me the scapegoat of all your future sins. And why? Because I happened to be the first woman who turned out not to be what your fancy painted her. Well, I don't complain: it was your fate and mine." She paused for a moment, and then rising said, "Good-night;" and before Max could recover himself she had glided from the room. 
                     Edith had hardened into marble under Max's tone of mingled accusation and appeal, and no relenting softness had overcome her in their short interview. When she reached her room she threw herself on a lounge, and half closing her eyes ran over the events of the day. The retrospect was not pleasant, and made her moody. Why had she let this boy hang about her? Why had she sent for Thornton? As she asked herself these questions, and grew impatient at her own answers to them, something slipped from about her throat and fell tinkling to the ground. She opened her eyes, and saw on the floor the locket she had worn that day, and which had become unclasped without her perceiving it. In a moment she remembered that it was the locket into which she had shut Marston's sleeve-button, and a cold shiver ran through her. The most reasonable of us feel the effect of coincidences in our own lives, and Edith could not resist the half-superstitious feeling that crept over her at this slight accidental occurrence. It struck "the electric chain wherewith we are darkly bound," and with one of those singular transitions of feeling of which some women are capable she buried her face in the cushions of the lounge and burst into a fit of low but passionate weeping. Long she wept, and when a lull would come, still the tears would spring afresh at some new thought. The taste of the Dead Sea fruit on which she had been feeding was bitter in her mouth, and her tears were bitter too. After a while they ceased, and when she could command herself she rose and opening a drawer in her writing-table drew from it Marston's letter. She read it through. The tears did not come now, only a burning flush spread over neck and brow. "He knew me better than I chose to know myself. Is it too late now?" Long she pondered with the letter in her hands, and when at last she rose to put it away the sky was red with the dawning day. But before she lay down to rest she had written the note that follows to Raymond, and placed it on her maid's table with a line ordering its delivery the first thing in the morning. Then she slept heavily till long after midday. 
                     "My words to-night were prophetic, and their fulfillment is upon us. Do not come to-morrow. I can never be to you again as I was this evening, and that being so we had better part without another meeting. There would be no use in my attempting an explanation-you could not understand me-but some day I will ask you to forgive me. Adieu! "EDITH." 
                     While she slept, Thornton Raymond was rushing fast away from the place in an express-train for New York, vowing never to see her again, and Maxwell Floyd was telling his aunt and cousins that he was going to spend the last weeks of his vacation with a friend in the West. "A long-promised visit," he said, heeding nothing of May's sad looks, wrapt in the blank egotism of his first keen sorrow. 
                   
                
                
                   
                  PART IV. 
                   
                     CHAPTER XI. 
                     THREE months had gone by since Geoffrey Marston parted with Edith Penrhyn, and he stood again on the steps of her house waiting to enter. He had been brave and cheerful, and played his part like a man through the hardships and labors of a scientific expedition in which he had borne a responsible and arduous part; he had not allowed himself to be diverted from the work he had undertaken by any thoughts of Edith; he had, indeed, scorned delights and lived laborious days; but deep in his heart burned a flame before her image which never flickered or waned. She was the one woman of the world to him, and as he stood before her closed door on this autumn evening every nerve was tense with expectation. 
                     The door opened, and in reply to his quiet "Is Mrs. Penrhyn at home?" the answer came: "Mrs. Penrhyn is at a dinner-party, and will not be home till late, sir." 
                     Marston stood motionless, and as if waiting for something more: he did not speak, but there was no mistaking his manner. It was a voiceless demand: the man instinctively added, "Will you give me your name, sir?" 
                     "Mr. Marston." 
                     "I thought it must be you, sir. Mrs. Penrhyn told me last week that if you came when she was out you were to wait till she came in, if you please." 
                     "When will she be back?" 
                     "About ten o'clock, I think, sir." 
                     "I cannot wait," said Geoffrey hastily, "but I will come back at ten o'clock. Tell Mrs. Penrhyn this." 
                     "Yes, sir, I will not forget," said the servant respectfully; and Marston turned away from the door, which closed behind him with an ominous clang. He could not wait quietly for the next two hours: he had calculated his powers to such a nicety that when this unexpected lengthening of his suspense came, he had no steady strength with which to meet it. His restlessness and impatience would be lessened, he thought, if he were not alone; and with this idea he strode away toward the club of which he was a member, and where he could pass away these few hours, that were more intolerable in contemplation than weeks had often seemed to him. He found, as usual, a crowd of men talking, laughing and drinking-light, noise, bustle and distraction everywhere. He was greeted cordially by some, courteously by all, and plunged into a knot of smokers, who were chatting together, as the first refuge that offered from his own society. As he lay back in an arm-chair, half abstracted from the current of talk, and yet finding an amusement in watching the faces of the men about him and noting what they said, Thornton Raymond joined the group. As his eyes rested on Marston, he colored and started as if at some memory connected with him and suddenly called up, but in an instant had recovered himself, and shook hands heartily with Geoffrey, who was quite ready to meet him halfway. Marston could not but observe a change in Raymond's appearance since he had last marked his handsome face in the same club-room. He looked worn and haggard, and there was a dash of feverish excitement about his manner, like that of a man who was habitually under the influence of liquor. The talk went on, and Raymond, perceiving that Marston seemed rather in a silent mood, gradually made one with the two or three men of the party who were doing the talking for the others. 
                     Marston fell back into his lounging, contemplative attitude, and smoked hard, trying to keep quiet, trying to be amused, and all the while wondering when the hour for which he was waiting would come. 
                     By and by he rose, too nervous to sit still, and crossed the hall to the doorway way of an opposite room. He stopped there and leant against the door, while he watched some men playing cards at a table not far from him, and as he watched them he fell into another reverie. It had lasted about ten minutes when he was roused by hearing a voice say beside him, "I beg your pardon. I am almost a stranger here: can you tell me if that gentleman leaning with his elbows on the table over there is Mr. Raymond?" 
                     Geoffrey looked across the hall and through the open door of the room he had just left, and which the stranger indicated by a gesture. "Yes," he said, "that is Mr. Raymond leaning on the table." As he spoke he looked curiously at his questioner. He saw a young man of about twenty-three, with a handsome open face-not distinguished-looking perhaps, but one that it was pleasant to look at. As Marston looked the young fellow grew white to his lips and half staggered. Geoffrey caught him by the arm, saying kindly, "You are ill: let me call Raymond for you." 
                     Max-for it was he-recovered himself by a strong effort, and said, "Thank you, I am all right now: I've been subject to slight attacks of giddiness lately. I'll go across and speak to Mr. Raymond;" and, declining Marston's proffered arm, he walked quickly to the other room. Some sudden unaccountable impulse drew Geoffrey after him: he resisted it for the space of a minute, and then yielded to it. But in that minute the stranger had accosted Raymond, and something had passed between them which brought every man of the party to his feet; so that when Marston penetrated the circle about the two men the first words he heard were, "Clergyman or not, I won't let any man insult me with impunity." They were spoken by Thornton. 
                     "I am not a clergyman, and never shall be. I stand on the same footing as yourself, and you owe me satisfaction for an insult." 
                     "So you came to settle old scores? Well, you are right there, and I like you the better for having a good memory for such matters. But see here, Mr. Floyd-and I say it openly-I'll never quarrel with any man for the sake of a heartless jade who is no better than she should be. I've sworn that, and never will; and if you'll accept my apology for my rudeness that night at dinner, I'll beg your pardon here before every man present, and drink your health afterward with them in a glass of champagne. I'll not balk you if you want to quarrel with me, be sure of that; but it must be about something better worth a man's blood than that worthless gypsy Edith Penrhyn. I'll never fight for her nor about her." 
                     There was a silence of a few moments as Thornton ceased to speak. Max was so astonished by this sudden turn of affairs that he did not for a moment grasp the fact that he had received ample apology, and must accept it. He had come there with the fixed purpose of resenting Raymond's insolence, which had rankled in him ever since its infliction; and Thornton's contempt toward Edith and courtesy to himself, albeit of a coarse kind, effected a total revulsion of feeling within him. Geoffrey Marston was paralyzed: he stood listening still, but speechless and motionless, a little behind Max. 
                     Max spoke frankly but awkwardly: "I accept your apology, Mr. Raymond. No gentleman could ask for more than you have said. I quite agree with you that the subject of our quarrel was a most unworthy one;" and he held out his hand to Raymond, who grasped it with a boisterous exclamation of "That's right! Come, gentlemen, we will drink Mr. Floyd's health in Roederer;" and in five minutes the whole party was drinking Maxwell Floyd's health in a series of bumpers, and following it up by toast after toast proposed by Thornton, who meant to get drunk himself, and rather enjoyed the prospect of companions in the indulgence. 
                     Raymond did not hesitate to introduce Edith's name into his sallies: he had determined to be open and outspoken in his expressions of contempt for her, and he rarely missed a chance of saying a light or disrespectful word of her. She was not the woman he had loved, but the woman who had made a fool of him, and he conceived he had ample cause for resentment, and owed her neither gallantry nor forbearance. Although a high-spirited and quick-tempered man, he would on no account have let Maxwell Floyd fix a quarrel upon him which should have Mrs. Penrhyn as its cause, however remote. He took a curious satisfaction in proclaiming to the world that Mrs. Penrhyn was in his eyes a woman who could claim no respect from men. The wound that most men hide studiously from all eyes seemed to heal best with him when exposed to all men's gaze. He knew that Edith would feel his contemptuous treatment of her name; he knew that he possessed the power to injure her; and he took his revenge as he best found it. 
                     Max had broken loose from all moorings since he had been disillusionized by Edith; he had pushed aside the prospect of his profession as an irksome and distasteful future; and coming across some wild associates, the autumn had found him in New York, embarked in a career of dissipation which had for its motive and cause not the superabundant life of youth, so much as the restlessness of an embittered spirit. He had gained admittance to the -- Club with the intention of meeting and quarreling with Raymond, and his first words to him had been of an unmistakable rudeness. But Thornton's apology had disarmed him, and the utter contempt with which he had spoken of Edith was grateful to Max, who longed for every one to trample her image under his feet. It never would have come to Max of his own prompting to introduce Mrs. Penrhyn's name into conversation with any disrespectful allusion, nor did he nourish any purpose of injuring her in the eyes of others, but he was easily led, and his youth and wounded vanity played directly into Raymond's hands. 
                     Geoffrey Marston had remained standing alone when the others trooped off at Raymond's bidding. The words he had heard struck him dumb for the time, but as they kept on repeating themselves in his brain with a damnable iteration, he began to be capable of thought and action once more. What did this fellow mean by the way in which he spoke of Edith? There was a positiveness, an assumption of authority, in Raymond's manner that spoke terribly to Marston. Had he had no reason to speak so he would never have dared to do it. But the matter must be sifted: he would find out, whatever torture it cost him, how much cause Edith Penrhyn had given any man to speak of her in a club-room as a woman too worthless to quarrel about. The resolution once taken, he lost no time in executing it, but, without giving himself time to recoil from the effort, walked into another room, where he was sure to find some lounger to tell him the truth. As he crossed the threshold the very man to serve his purpose came in sight-a comrade of Raymond's and "a man about town." "If this fellow's words mean more than the low insolence of a man stung by rejection of his suit," thought Marston, "I can soon find it out from Lorimer." Accordingly he linked his arm through Mr. Lorimer's, saying as he did so, "Can you spare me five minutes alone?" 
                     "An hour if you want it, my dear fellow. What can I do for you?" replied Lorimer, who was a genial, kindly man, with plenty of idle time on his hands. Marston led him into a small private room which happened to be empty, closed the door, and then, motioning him to be seated, said, "I want you to tell me what ground Mr. Raymond had for what he said about Mrs. Penrhyn to-night." 
                     "Oh, well, I didn't hear what he said to-night, but I suppose it's what he says now-a-days whenever he gets a chance." 
                     "I will tell you just what it was," said Geoffrey, very still and quiet: "he said that he would fight neither for nor about a worthless gypsy like Mrs. Penrhyn, and added other words, such as a man speaks only of a woman who has forfeited his respect." 
                     "Marston," said Lorimer, looking at Geoffrey's face, which was set like death, and moving uneasily in his chair, "you seem to care about it, and I don't want to give you pain, but-" 
                     "Go on," said Geoffrey. 
                     "Well, I fancy Raymond isn't far out in what he says of Mrs. Penrhyn. She's no end of a flirt, and not very circumspect, you know, about her relations to men. She and Thornton were very intimate, and now she has thrown him over-for another man, he says, a young divinity student up in the country. I don't mean to say that I think it very generous in Raymond to come down on her now, but he was dreadfully cut up by it, and he takes his revenge by boasting of his intimacy with her and sneering at her in every way: he never misses a chance." 
                     "And you think that this man has the power to injure Mrs. Penrhyn's reputation, and that no one has the right to stop him?" 
                     "I think any one who may choose to constitute himself Mrs. Penrhyn's champion has a perfect right to do so-the place is vacant, certainly," replied Lorimer coolly-"but I don't believe any one has the power, which is more to the point. People are always ready to believe evil rather than good, especially about a pretty and attractive woman; and besides, my dear Marston, Raymond has truth on his side, and half the men in New York know that he has, while the other half take their word for it." 
                     "What do they know?" said Geoffrey hoarsely. 
                     "Nothing, perhaps, that would be considered conclusive testimony in a court of justice, but enough to make them let Raymond have his say and not contradict him." 
                     Geoffrey groaned aloud: "It is hopeless, then?" 
                     "Quite so. You may kill Raymond if you like, Marston-and you look as if you would-but, believe me, it won't do Mrs. Penrhyn any good. When a woman once gives any man a right to speak disrespectfully of her, there's no use in trying to gag him." 
                     "Thank you for telling me the truth, Lorimer," said Marston after a few moments of agitated silence. "I don't attempt to disguise my feelings from you, but I will ask one more favor of you: speak to no one of this conversation." 
                     "Not a word," said Lorimer, putting his hand kindly on Geoffrey's shoulder. "On my soul, Marston, I'm sorry. Hang it, man! women are all alike-not one of them good enough to give an honest heart like yours an ache." 
                     Marston returned Lorimer's grip with a silent pressure, and turned away with an abrupt "Good-night." 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER XII. 
                     AS Mrs. Penrhyn tripped up the steps of her own house that night the servant opened the door with the announcement, "Mr. Marston was here, madam, and said he would be back at ten o'clock." 
                     "Very well: show him up to the library when he comes," was Edith's reply. As she entered the room the clock on the mantel struck ten. "He will not be very unpunctual," she thought with a slight smile of proud pleasure, and seated herself with a book which she picked up at random from the table, that she might have some apparent occupation when he entered. 
                     Her feeling for Marston was a mixture of attraction and a sense of rebellion against his demand upon her. She felt that the love he gave her and asked in return was different both in kind and degree from the feeling she had given to and received from other men; and although it charmed her, she struggled against it. She was in twenty minds as to how she would receive him, and ended at the close of a five minutes' meditation with the intention of following the impulse that should be born of the moment of his entrance. Long did she sit there waiting that moment, but it did not come: the clock had struck midnight when she at last rose with an impatient gesture, and ringing the bell ordered the house to be shut up, and desired her maid's attendance. She was disappointed, annoyed and irritated. She could not imagine herself the subject of a caprice with any man, least of all with Marston, and yet, think as she would, no other reason for his absence suggested itself. 
                     The next day brought no explanation of Marston's failure to keep his engagement, nor the next. On the third evening Mrs. Penrhyn went to a small party: she had been half inclined to refuse the invitation, but on second thoughts decided to go, with a half-acknowledged hope of hearing something of the truant. She had settled in her own mind that she would forgive him on his return, but not without inflicting due penance. Never had Edith's beauty been more brilliant than on that evening and she shone the admitted queen of all the women present. After several hours spent in receiving the easy homage of the world, and skimming over the surface of people's minds and hearts as an accomplished skater does over thin ice, she turned to go. At the door she met Mr. Lorimer, and as she paused heard him say over his shoulder, to a man behind him, "The last time I saw Marston was on Tuesday evening at the club." 
                     Here was her clue, and she seized it at once, saying to Lorimer, "Is that Mr. Geoffrey Marston, the scientific man, you mean? Then he has got back from South America?" 
                     "Oh yes," said Lorimer, with a scrutinizing look at her, "he got back on Monday night. He was at the club on Tuesday about ten: I haven't laid my eyes on him since;" and then, "You might spare me ten minutes, Mrs. Penrhyn." 
                     "Not possible, Mr. Lorimer," said Edith, moving on-"I am too sleepy." 
                     At the foot of the stairs she brushed against a gentleman coming down. She looked up quickly, and met Maxwell Floyd's eyes fixed upon her. He looked so like and yet so unlike himself that she could scarcely help uttering an exclamation. He had colored when their eyes met, but did not attempt to speak to her, only bowed stiffly and stood aside for her to pass him. As she entered the dressing-room a lively conversation was going on between Mrs. Willis and Mrs. Chadwick, both women of society, both gossips and both bright creatures enough. It was easy for Edith to overhear them as she was being cloaked, and what she heard was this: 
                     "He is certainly handsome, and rather interesting." 
                     "One cannot help being more excited about a backslider than a penitent." 
                     "Is he very dissipated?" 
                     "They say so-at least he is hand and glove with Raymond and all of that set, and that's a sort of certificate of profligacy, you know." 
                     "Mr. Floyd won't be able to stand the pace at which these men live. Isn't there some story about his having studied for the ministry?" 
                     "It may be so: if so, he is in a fair way to be a practical illustration of the saying, 'Les extrmes se touchent." 
                     Edith heard no more, but broke away from the maid who was wrapping her up, and hurried down stairs and into her carriage, pursued by the remembrance of Max's pale face and scornful mouth. Her sleep was not tranquil that night. For the first time a realization of what part she had played in the lives of these two men came over her fully and clearly, and it did not seem as easy to her to thrust it aside as it had done at Glenwood. Strive as she would against it, she could not but feel a shadow hung over her-a shadow of remorse. 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER XIII. 
                     UNDER the first shock of the revelation Lorimer had made to him, Geoffrey Marston had rushed off to a small farmhouse a few hours from New York, where he had been accustomed to seek solitude. He felt that a struggle with himself must take place-a battle between every fixed belief, every inherited tradition, every ideal feeling of his nature concerning women on one side and his love for Edith Penrhyn on the other. It was true that he had seen, when he first knew her, that her creed and practice with regard to men were not those that he thought worthy of her, and he had uttered the earnest pleadings of his first letter under the sting of that consciousness ness. But, although his ideal of her had been wounded by Edith as he had observed her, it was not a deadly wound: now it had been struck to the heart, and was writhing in its death-agony. Nothing could enable it to survive such a cruel blow, and henceforth Marston knew he must forswear the love of this woman, or be content to love her merely with passionate longing and tenderness, but without reverence or worship-as a woman indeed, but no longer as a divinity. It had always been Marston's most cherished faith-and this faith sprang from the most essential part of his nature-that a man who loved a woman should find in her that food for his ideal aspirations without which life were not worth living. In spite of Edith's shortcomings, she was so well adapted by nature to play the part of a goddess that he had been sure of her response to his demand if only he made it with sufficient energy and earnestness. 
                     He was a proud man and an honorable one-not vain like Max nor arrogant like Raymond. How could he marry a woman whose reputation was the football of a set of men whose eyes he would like never to see raised when his wife swept by them? But he was a man of strong passions and deep feelings, and his love for Edith was the greatest passion and deepest feeling of his life. 
                     It was a terrible and protracted struggle. A hundred times he resolved never to see her again, and then the wild longing just to breathe the air about her, polluted though it might be, made him recoil from his determination. At last, after a week of acute suffering, during which he was torn asunder by contending feelings, Marston sealed his own fate by succumbing to the violence of his passion; and, thrusting the past behind him with vigorous, impatient hands, he called upon all the force of will within him to help him to his end. 
                     He was not a man of halfway measures, and when he had once consented to pay the price for the indulgence he craved, though it was no less than the silencing of the highest demands of his soul, he determined to have no regretful bitterness mingled in his cup. Deliberately he surveyed his position and accepted it; and perhaps nothing could give a better proof of his power of will than that, after he had once placed his feeling for Edith on a lower ground than it had hitherto occupied, he looked at their future relations on the same level, and in estimating his chances of success with her did not omit the fact that few men of his standing would contemplate marriage with a woman whose reputation had been breathed upon. Indeed, no sooner had he ruthlessly severed his love into two parts and cast away the nobler one, than his feeling for Edith, deprived of the spiritual sentiment which had pervaded it, began to degenerate. 
                     His hand did not tremble when he rang the bell at Mrs. Penrhyn's door, nor did his heart quicken its beatings; only, a flush was on his cheek and his eyes gleamed with fire and resolve. He was about to try his fate, but with a sense of security to which he had been hitherto a stranger. Yet, by one of those strange revenges that the whirligig of time brings about, while Marston's love had lost its ennobling element, the woman on whom he had bestowed it was, for the first time in her life, yearning for what she had put it out of his power to give-yearning so hungrily that to obtain it she would have made herself worthy of the crown she had formerly disdained with impatience. 
                     The week that intervened between the evening when she looked for his return and been disappointed, and the one when he came back to rivet his life to hers if possible, had been passed by Edith in bitter retrospect and self-humiliation. In some one of the mysterious ways in which Love does his work she had grown to love Geoffrey Marston, and instinctively she loved him as he would be loved. In the might of this true, deep feeling she felt strong, and a new heart seemed to have been given to her,-that she might give it to him. All her old restless thirst for excitement and homage seemed quenched, and no girl of eighteen could have loved more singly than did she. With the egotism that formed the habit of her life, and which accompanies strong feelings in their early developments, Edith thought more of her own mistakes and errors as they affected herself than as they had injured others, and she found it easier to forget the wrong she had done to Max and Raymond than the fact that she had come far short of Marston's ideal of her. She felt sure, however, that Geoffrey would come to her, and when the servant announced him she rose to greet him with a very creditable self-command. 
                     Marston, always unconventional, was less than ever capable of following the indirect paths of society toward his object, and he entered her presence without a thought other than the achievement of his purpose. For the first few moments neither spoke: he remained standing by the door, which he had closed behind him, and she could distinctly hear his repressed, long-drawn breaths. Such a wild desire to clasp her in his arms, to hold her close to his heart, that beat so strongly with love, not fear, swept over him that he had much ado to control it. He forgot the bitterness of the struggle he had passed through in the intoxication of her presence, and the words he had meant to say at meeting died upon his lips. He had meant to tell her very briefly that the old love was dead; that he no longer asked the hard things of her which he had foolishly dreamed she could give him; that now he was easier to content, and would grasp at no floating vision of perfection-would ask for nothing but herself, her beautiful exuberant self, to fill his heart and steep his senses in delight. For his soul-well, that might starve a little, but what matter? Had he said this to her even then, she might have reinstated her image in its old place in his heart: he might have found hope and courage to lead her onward and upward; for the germ that he had planted in her heart, however small, had been the germ of a noble feeling. But he said not one word of all that he had meant to say. Seeing his heaven before him, he forgot everything but its nearness, and with an impetuous burst of joy and pent-up longing he told her only of his love. Kneeling at her feet, her hands clasped in his, he told her of his ardent love. With all the vehemence and earnestness of his nature he implored her to marry him, and Edith listened and yielded, and abandoned her future into his hands. 
                     Their natures were strangely fitted to complete one another, and but for the perversity of circumstances, and that aggregate result of our actions which we are pleased to term "fatality," they might have made one another's perfect happiness. As it was, two beings so full of attraction for one another could not come together without at least glimpses of delight and flashes of ecstatic joy. Such moments were brief, but delightful. For that evening, at least, Edith and Geoffrey both forgot the irrevocable Past, but it towered over their unconscious heads, and threw a shadow as dark and deep as the grave over their common Future. 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER XIV. 
                     IT would have been hard to say whether Edith or Geoffrey was most eager in putting aside all vestiges of the obnoxious Past. They never spoke to each other of the summer which had gone by while they were apart, except most superficially, and all their thoughts and actions seemed connected with a future which should be entirely uninfluenced by anything in their past lives. Edith, who was in love for the first time in her life, was impatient of everything that reminded her that she had not always been as she now was; and Marston shrank from the pain that came to him with every suggestion of the reality that he had willed to forget. But there was no understanding between them, no silent comprehension of one another's feelings; only on one side blind ignorance, on the other a closed door. They were both eager to go abroad and spend several years. Marston's scientific vent would find more scope in Europe, and Edith had an almost childish impatience to leave her old surroundings behind her. She felt as if once out of sight they would be out of mind, and everything about her life as a woman of fashion was incongruous with her newborn temper of mind. Marston urged their marriage, and was feverishly impatient that it should take place. Meanwhile, they lived a very quiet life, both avoiding the world, and spending most of their time together in a sort of dreamy intoxication. When Geoffrey was under Edith's personal influence he forgot everything but his love for her, and no ill thoughts troubled him; but away from her he was conscious that but for his will, which barred the door against them, black memories would harbor in his heart. 
                     Edith was happier than ever before. The dim dread which had possessed her lest Marston should exact from her a spiritual elevation which she was not prepared to give-lest he should be a teacher even more than a lover-soon disappeared when she found that he seemed to take her as she was, and find her most charming when most herself. None of the severe requirements that she had seen foreshadowed in his letter were ever made of her. Little did she know what a fall she had had in his estimation before he could regard her as an exquisite plaything, a creature made for his fancy and senses to revel in-no more. 
                     So each unwittingly helped to compass the result they least desired. Marston thought that Edith's ready conformity to the tone he took was but a strong proof of the wisdom and justness of his decision; and Edith thought that he based his demands, as formerly, on his own desires, not, as he really did, on her apparent capacity to fulfill them. He had committed the fatal error of accepting her at her worst, as unalterable; and she had no means of knowing that he had endured mortal agony before relinquishing as hopeless the pursuit of what she would have striven, and not unsuccessfully, to give him. But as he alone had waked the nobler soul in Edith, so when he ceased to recognize its existence it again slumbered within her, the more heavily perhaps for its brief period of conscious existence. 
                     They were married privately and quietly, with only half a dozen witnesses, and sailed the next day for Europe. As they lost sight of the shores of America, Edith, who was standing by Marston's side on the deck of the steamer, turned to him with a joyous look and said, "Oh, Geoffrey, are you not glad we are to begin our new life in a new world-that we have left it all behind us? We have no Past now, only a Future." 
                     "How can that be?" said Marston, a sudden gloom overspreading his face. "That is a child's thought. It is our past, Edith, that makes our future." 
                     "Don't look so solemn, love," whispered Edith, clinging to his arm. "You have not looked so grave since we were engaged." 
                     Marston recovered himself, and answered gayly enough, but the cloud had begun to rise in their sky, although as yet no bigger than a man's hand. 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER XV. 
                     EXTRACTS from Geoffrey Marston's journal kept during the first three months after his marriage: 
                     "ROME, January 4. 
                     "I have wished a hundred times that I had not begun this record, and yet some irresistible power forces me to write in it, whether I will or no. It would have been wiser had I never begun it, but it was the habit of my life, and I never thought of breaking it off. It does me no good. As I turn over these pages I see written down things that I would have forgotten-momentary pangs, acute at the time, but ephemeral had I not registered them here. 
                     "I was weaker than I thought myself that night at the farm-shall I ever forget it?-when I vowed within myself to put the past and its terrible memories away from me. I cannot do it: everything, even the veriest trifles, fills me with a sickening ache; every look, every word of my wife's suggests some accursed and fatal train of thought. She never smiles at me but I think, So she smiled at other men; and then I pursue the fancy till I feel almost maddened. Only yesterday she asked me if we should invite Ashton, whom we had just met, to go with us on an excursion to-morrow, and when I said, 'I doubted his caring to go, but would ask him,' she said, 'Then let me ask if you think it doubtful: no man ever says no to me.' It was as if a snake had uncoiled at my feet. She must have felt the change in my manner, though I tried hard enough, God knows! to keep from showing my feeling. It was an innocent speech enough, but read by the light of the past it was- 
                     "I know I have no right to be morbid about her, and that I shall make her life miserable if I cannot keep from this infernal retrospect; but I seem pursued by a Fate. All her references to her past life fill me with a desire to rush away, anywhere away from her, or else to take her to some utter solitude, where no outer world could penetrate, and there I might be happy. 
                     "I avoid every one, and I am conscious that it would be more for Edith's happiness if I did not do so. I must battle with this feeling or it will overwhelm me. I will forget. I will trust her: she loves me, and I will do better. 
                     "January 20. It is two weeks since I opened this book last, and I do so now to record my failure; for I have failed. Everything has conspired against me. Edith herself-poor child! I don't blame her-has unconsciously helped to make it impossible for me to succeed. I have striven hard too: every day it grows harder. How was it that I was so happy at first? I suppose I was blinded by passion. Yet I love her now as I loved her then-better even, for is she not mine now? Ah! there it is! A hundred times a day I ask myself, How can she belong to me more or otherwise than she has belonged to others? The mere fact of physical possession I count as little-as nothing-compared with the virginity of soul I crave in my wife. Madman that I was, to think that I could be satisfied, be anything but most miserable, without it in the woman to whom I gave my whole heart, for my whole heart and soul are hers! If it were not so I might be happier than I am-might bear to live as we do. When I told her that first morning that I must have all and give all, and she listened to me, then I spoke the truth, though I knew that she could not realize my dreams. I was a madman to seek her again. Oh, Edith! I love you, I love you, and yet this life with you is torture. To lead it long is beyond my strength." 
                     Two days later: 
                     "How little you knew yourself, Geoffrey Marston, when you attempted to make your happiness without faith in the woman you loved-an arch without a keystone! Your thirty three years had taught you little of your own nature and its requirements. You should have fled from her, knowing your faith gone. What good could your love do you then? And now you are doomed by your own act. But one way out of it, and that a dark and narrow one-the way of the grave. But why unpack your heart with words? why not bear it like a man? I should have despised this weakness in another man, but it is eating my heart out; and all the while I love her more, and she seems more beautiful, more charming to me. If I had only never known-never gone to the club that fatal night! I should still have believed her capable of being what I once thought she might be, and then I should have had the bliss of ignorance. But I know-I know that I can never have what I long for. Never can I look into her eyes and see mirrored back my own soul. 
                     "Only to-day she said to me, 'Geoffrey, I never dreamed of such happiness;' and I forced myself to smile and caress her. I could not have spoken: everything was at war within me. How will all this end?" 
                     The struggle partially revealed in the foregoing extracts had its cause in Marston's peculiar nature. Of all men, he was the last to accomplish the task he had set himself. Twice in his life he proved unequal to what was demanded of him-the first time when he yielded to Edith's attraction and sought her against his conviction of her unworthiness ness to fill the place in his life which she must occupy; the second when, having grappled with this life, he found himself ready to give up the contest and fly. But the explanation of his failures is to be found rather in his want of self-comprehension than in his want of character. His will had always served his turn, and he had counted upon its doing so again. He had not known how deadly a wound he dealt his own soul when he determined to marry Edith. But not in quietness and silence would his higher nature submit to be crushed, and its struggle for life, its revolt against the determination which shut it out of its proper part in his relation to his wife, was what caused him such intense suffering. 
                     To a man like Marston moral suffering is the keenest, and the very pain he endured blinded him to the fact that Edith was being, day by day, purified and elevated by her deep, true love for him. He could see nothing plainly, so clouded was his sight by self-torture and contending passions. Truly, his punishment was severe. His marriage had been his first disloyalty to the ruling spirit of his life, and it brought discord into his soul. At first, with a desperate recklessness, he had abandoned himself to the fascination of his wife's society, and for a time had felt no sting of memory. But honor and faith and purity had been too long the guiding-stars of Marston's life for him long to wander without their light: soon his misery began, and grew day by day. His moral logic was perfect and gave him no rest. 
                     Perhaps the blow was really dealt and the mischief done when he first knew, or thought he knew, that Edith was not what he had dreamed; and if that were so, then it would not have availed him to turn away from her. The arrow once in the heart of the deer, the end is sure, though pride and courage may yet carry him many a step. 
                     Something of this he dimly felt, and it was at the bottom of much of his recklessness at first, and his want of courage and hope now. But the end came sooner than one would have thought, after all, even though it might be seen afar off. Such things never seem near or likely till they are upon us, and then they strike us. 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER XVI. 
                     THREE more weeks went by-of such a strange life to those two! Edith was happy, for she was absorbed by loving: she had been loved before, but she now loved for the first time; and she was so rich in her own wealth that she missed nothing that Marston failed to give her. Then, too, it must be remembered that he loved her only too well-that his very pain was born of his love; and that she was too unused to the possession of a nature like his to be able to measure its outpourings and detect when they came short of the full measure. He made a strong effort, and a successful one, to conceal from her his unhappiness: it was the easier that his fits of despairing misery seized him when he was alone, and alone he passed through them, while when together the intoxication of her presence and her love was enough to make him forget everything but that she loved him and that she was his own. 
                     But all this while Geoffrey Marston's heart was breaking under the terrible tension. So it came to pass that one morning in February he let Edith go alone on a party of pleasure with some friends, and stayed at home himself. He had said he would go, and he meant to go, but at the last moment a hunger to be alone came over him, and he made some excuse which answered its purpose. This longing for solitude had grown on him of late: he had got into a way of wandering alone over Rome, sometimes by day, sometimes by night; and Edith, whose tact was as perfect with him as it had ever been with any of the men she had known and did not love, took no notice of his strolls to check them, though they had begun to trouble her a little. 
                     That morning, though he knew that so soon as she left the house his misery would begin, he longed for her to go, and to her dying day Edith never forgot the restless energy with which he expedited dited her departure. At the door of her room she paused and said, "Say good-bye here, love, not down stairs." 
                     He caught her in his arms and held her tight and close. He was her lover always, and never met or parted from her coldly, but this embrace was like the clutch with which a drowning man seizes his plank: she felt it to be so, and looked into his eyes tenderly and longingly, saying, "Let me stay at home too." 
                     "No, no, no!" he said vehemently, "I would not have you." And so they parted. 
                     He sat a while brooding, his head in his hands, then started up and went down stairs, meaning, so far as he meant anything definitely, to walk far and wide till he should have walked off his mood. As he passed through the hall of the hotel he heard voices in a little room which opened from it. They were American women who were in there. He knew that at a sound, and paused instinctively: as he did so he heard his own name. He stood still and listened. 
                     "So Mrs. Marston is here?" 
                     "Yes: George saw her name on the books. Shall you call on her?" 
                     "I think not. Edith Penrhyn was very fascinating, but I don't care to have her acquaintance. Every one knows what a scandal there was about her and Mr. Raymond last year, and Heaven only knows how many more; besides, she has been married quite long enough to be ready to amuse herself with any one else, and George is rather susceptible, you know."  
                     "You might indemnify yourself with Marston," returned the other speaker with a light laugh. 
                     "No. They say he is infatuated about her; which must be true, otherwise he would have contented himself with becoming Raymond's successor and not have married her." 
                     Here the voices grew nearer: the speakers were coming out, and Marston instinctively hurried from the hotel, that he might escape notice. 
                     Two hours later he returned, went to his wife's room and wrote a letter, which he laid on her dressing-table. Then he went to his own room, locked the door, sat down on the edge of the bed, took Edith's picture in his hand and fixed his eyes upon it, while with his other hand he put a pistol to his head and pulled the trigger. He fell backward with the picture clutched convulsively in his hand. Long before the door was reached by the frightened servants he was dead, and when they burst it open his body was lying on the bed at rest. 
                     Edith found his letter before she was told of his death: they had judged it best, hoping that he would have broken his dreadful purpose to her in it. He had indeed done so, but she did not seem to grasp his meaning, and when she had finished it only rushed from the room to ask wildly where her husband was. She was told the truth as gently as might be, and bore it as such women do bear cruel blows-strangely well. But it had been better for her had Marston dealt with her as with himself. He had been her beacon-light to better things, her wings to soar, her sword to strike with. She was left without defence or help, and she became-much what she had been before she knew him. There was added to her life a terrible sense of emptiness and a desperate longing for the past, but also a bitterness that sprang from the depths of her soul. "I loved him," she thought, "and he did not love me enough to forgive me or trust me. And yet his was the best love I ever knew: it is none of it worth much." 
                     Yet she read his letter every night of her life before she slept, and there were few nights when it was not blistered with tears. With that letter this story must end: 
                     "EDITH: I cannot bear to live any longer, and, like a coward as I am, I am about to end my life. When you read this I shall be dead, yet read it to the end before you scream or cry. I think my heart is broken, and that is why I am so weak. You will never believe how I have fought against this despair that is driving me out of life. 
                     "It is the discord within which I cannot not reconcile that makes life unbearable. I knew all, all about you, Edith, before I sought you last, and I loved you so much I thought I could take things as they were, so that I might have you with them. I was a madman to think it, for from the first moment I was miserable. You are not to blame, nor do I blame you. It is I who should have known myself better than to think I could trample my honor under foot and fling my ideals to the winds, and then throw myself into your arms and be happy and forget. Do not think it is to save myself pain that I die: it is because I should soon make you wretched. I should not long have strength to play the part I have played successfully since we were married, and bitterness, distrust and jealousy would come between us. I cannot bear it: I love you so entirely that to know you are not, cannot be, mine as I am yours, kills me; and so why not die quickly rather than slowly? 
                     "I was never made to do this thing that I have tried to do, and the struggle has torn me in pieces. But you can never understand how it all was, because, though I love you perfectly, you do not love me in the same way, and our natures are different. If ever we meet again, and you are able to love me then as I love you now, I shall be satisfied, but otherwise pass me and do not turn your face on me. 
                     "I feel happier at this moment than I have felt for months. Strange-is it not?-when I shall never kiss your lips again, and the pistol that is to end my life lies coldly in my hand! Yet is it true-as true as that I love you and am for ever yours, GEOFFREY." 
                     Her tears fell upon it night after night, but they were barren and bitter, for she said, "It was of himself he thought." 
                   
                
             
             
               ON THE CHURCH STEPS. 
                
                
                  PART I. 
                   
                     CHAPTER I. 
                     WHAT a picture she was as she sat there, my own Bessie! and what a strange place it was to rest on, those church steps! Behind us lay the Woolsey woods, with their wooing fragrance of pine and soft rushes of scented air; and the lakes were in the distance, lying very calm in the cloud-shadows and seeming to wait for us to come. But to-day Bessie would nothing of lakes or ledges: she would sit on the church steps. 
                     In front of us, straight to the gate, ran a stiff little walk of white pebbles, hard and harsh as some bygone creed. 
                     "Think of little bare feet coming up here, Bessie!" I said with a shiver. "It is too hard. And every carriage that comes up the hill sees us." 
                     "And why shouldn't they see us?" said my lady, turning full upon me. "I am not ashamed to be here." 
                     "Churches should always have soft walks of turf; and lovers," I would fain have added, "should have naught but whispering leaves about them." 
                     But Bessie cut me short in her imperious way: "But we are not lovers this morning: at least," with a half-relenting look at my rueful face, "we are very good friends, and I choose to sit here to show people that we are." 
                     "What do you care for people-the Bartons or the Meyricks?" as I noticed a familiar family carriage toiling up the hill, followed by a lighter phaeton. I recognized already in the latter vehicle the crimson feather of Fanny Meyrick, and "the whip that was a parasol." 
                     "Shall I step out into the road this minute, and stop those ladies like a peaceable highwayman, and tell them you have promised to marry me, and that their anxiety as to our intimacy may be at rest? Give me but leave and I will do it. It will make Mrs. Barton comfortable. Then you and I can walk away into those beckoning woods, and I can have you all to myself." 
                     Indeed she was worth having. With the witchery that some girls know, she had made a very picture of herself that morning, as I have said. Some soft blue muslin stuff was caught up around her in airy draperies-nothing stiff or frilled about her: all was soft and flowing, from the falling sleeve that showed the fair curve of her arm to the fold of her dress, the ruffle under which her little foot was tapping, impatiently now. A little white hat with a curling blue feather shaded her face-a face I won't trust myself to describe, save by saying that it was the brightest and truest, as I then thought, in all the world. 
                     She said something rapidly in Italian-she is always artificial when she uses a foreign tongue-and this I caught but imperfectly, but it had a proverbial air about it of the error of too hasty assumptions. 
                     "Well, now I'll tell you something," she said as the carriages disappeared over the top of the hill. "Fanny Meyrick is going abroad in October, and we shall not see her for ever so long." 
                     Going abroad? Good gracious! That was the very thing I had to tell her that morning-that I too was ordered abroad. An estate to be settled-some bothering old claim that had been handed down from generation to generation, and now springing into life again by the lapsing of two lives on the other side. But how to tell her as she looked up into my face with the half-pleading, half-imperious smile that I knew so well? How to tell her now?
                      
                     So I said nothing, but foolishly pushed the little pebbles aside with my stick, fatuously waiting for the subject to pass. Of course my silence brought an instant criticism: "Why, Charlie, what ails you?" 
                     "Nothing. And really, Bessie, what is it to us whether Fanny Meyrick go or stay?" 
                     "I shouldn't have thought it was anything. But your silence, your confusion-Charlie, you do care a little for her, after all." 
                     Two years ago, before Bessie and I had ever met, I had fluttered around Fanny Meyrick for a season, attracted by her bright brown eyes and the gypsy flush on her cheek. But there were other moths fluttering around that adamantine candle too; and I was not long in discovering that the brown eyes were bright for each and all, and that the gypsy flush was never stirred by feeling or by thought. It was merely a fixed ensign of health and good spirits. Consequently the charm had waned, for me at least; and in my confessions to Bessie since our near intimacy it was she, not I, who had magnified it into the shadow even of a serious thought. 
                     "Care for her? Nonsense, Bessie! Do you want me to call her a mere doll, a hard, waxen-no, for wax will melt-a Parian creature, such as you may see by the dozens in Schwartz's window any day? It doesn't gratify you, surely, to hear me say that of any woman." 
                     And then-what possessed me?-I was so angry at myself that I took a mental rsum of all the good that could be said of Fanny Meyrick-her generosity, her constant cheerfulness; and in somewhat headlong fashion I expressed myself: "I won't call her a dolt and an idiot, even to please you. I have seen her do generous things, and she is never out of temper." 
                     "Thanks!" said Bessie, nodding her head till the blue feather trembled. "It is as well, as Aunt Sloman says, to keep my shortcomings before you." 
                     "When did Aunt Sloman say that?" I interrupted, hoping for a diversion of the subject. 
                     "This morning only. I was late at breakfast. You know, Charlie, I was so tired with that long horseback ride, and of course everything waited. Dear aunty never will begin until I come down, but sits beside the urn like the forlornest of martyrs, and reads last night's papers over and over again." 
                     "Well? And was she sorry that she had not invited me to wait with her?" 
                     "Yes," said Bessie. "She said all sorts of things, and," flushing slightly, "that it was a pity you shouldn't know beforehand what you were to expect." 
                     "I wish devoutly that I had been there," seizing the little hand that was mournfully tapping the weatherbeaten stone, and forcing the downcast eyes to look at me. "I think, both together, we could have pacified Aunt Sloman." 
                     It was a diversion, and after a little while Bessie professed she had had enough of the church steps. 
                     "How those people do stare! Is it the W-s, do you think, Charlie? I heard yesterday they were coming." 
                     From our lofty position on the hillside we commanded the road leading out of the village-the road that was all alive with carriages on this beautiful September morning. The W- carriage had half halted to reconnoitre, and had only not hailed us because we had sedulously looked another way. 
                     "Let's get away," I said, "for the next carriage will not only stop, but come over;" and Bessie suffered herself to be led through the little tangle of brier and fern, past the gray old gravestones with "Miss Faith" and "Miss Mehitable" carved upon them, and into the leafy shadow of the waiting woods. 
                     Other lovers have been there before us, but the trees whisper no secrets save their own. The subject of our previous discussion was not resumed, nor was Fanny Meyrick mentioned, until on our homeward road we paused a moment on the hilltop, as we always did. 
                     It is indeed a hill of vision, that church hill at Lenox. Sparkling far to the south, the blue Dome lay, softened and shining in the September sun. There was ineffable peace in the faint blue sky, and, stealing up from the valley, a shimmering haze that seemed to veil the bustling village and soften all the rural sounds. 
                     Bessie drew nearer to me, shading her eyes as she looked down into the valley: "Charlie dear, let us stay here always. We shall be happier, better here than to go back to New York." 
                     "And the law-business?" I asked like a brutal bear, bringing the realities of life into my darling's girlish dream. 
                     "Can't you practice law in Foxcroft, and drive over there every morning? People do." 
                     "And because they do, and there are enough of them, I must plod along in the ways that are made for me already. We can make pilgrimages here, you know." 
                     "I suppose so," said Bessie with a sigh. 
                     Just then Fanny Kemble's clock in the tower above us struck the hour-one, two, three. 
                     "Bless me! so late? And there's that phaeton coming back over the hill again. Hurry, Charlie! don't let them see us. They'll think that we've been here all the time." And Bessie plunged madly down the hill, and struck off into the side-path that leads into the Lebanon road. The last vibrations of the bell were still trembling on the air as I caught up with her again. 
                     But again the teasing mood of the morning had come over her. Quite out of breath with the run, as we sat down to rest on the little porch of Mrs. Sloman's cottage she said, very earnestly, "But you haven't once said it." 
                     "Said what, my darling?" 
                     "That you are glad that Fanny is going abroad." 
                     "Nonsense! Why should I be glad?" 
                     "Are you sorry, then?" 
                     If I had but followed my impulse then, and said frankly that I was, and why I was! But Mrs. Sloman was coming through the little hall: I heard her step. Small time for explanation, no time for reproaches. And I could not leave Bessie, on that morning of all others, hurt or angry, or only half convinced. 
                     "No, I am not sorry," I said, pulling down a branch of honeysuckle, and making a loop of it to draw around her neck. "It is nothing, either way." 
                     "Then say after me if it is nothing-feel as I feel for one minute, won't you?" 
                     "Yes, indeed." 
                     "Say, after me, then, word for word, 'I am glad, very glad, that Fanny Meyrick is to sail in October. I would not have her stay on this side for worlds!'" 
                     And like a fool, a baby, I said it, word: for word, from those sweet smiling lips: "I am glad, very glad, that Fanny Meyrick is to sail in October. I would not have her stay on this side for worlds!" 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER II. 
                     THE next day was Sunday, and I was on duty at an early hour, prepared to walk with Bessie to church. My darling was peculiar among women in this: her church-going dress was sober-suited; like a little gray nun, almost, she came down to me that morning. Her dress, of some soft gray stuff, fell around her in the simplest folds, a knot of brown ribbon at her throat, and in her hat a gray gull's wing. 
                     I had praised the Italian women for the simplicity of their church-attire: their black dresses and lace veils make a picturesque contrast with the gorgeous ceremonials of the high altar. But there was something in this quiet toilet, so fresh and simple and girl-like, that struck me as the one touch of grace that the American woman can give to the best even of foreign taste. Not the dramatic abnegation indicated by the black dress, but the quiet harmony of a life atune. 
                     Mrs. Sloman was ready even before Bessie came down. She was a great invalid, although her prim and rigid countenance forbore any expression save of severity. She had no pathos about her, not a touch. Whatever her bodily sufferings may have been-and Bessie dimly hinted that they were severe to agony at times-they were resolutely shut within her chamber door; and when she came out in the early morning, her cold brown hair drawn smoothly over those impassive cheeks, she looked like a lady abbess-as cold, as unyielding and as hard. 
                     There was small sympathy between the aunt and niece, but a great deal of painstaking duty on the one side, and on the other the habit of affection which young girls have for the faces they have always known. 
                     Mrs. Sloman had been at pains to tell me, when my frequent visits to her cottage made it necessary that I should in some fashion explain to her as to what I wanted there, that her niece, Bessie Stewart, was in nowise dependent on her, not even for a home.-"This cottage we rent in common. It was her father's desire that her property should not accumulate, and that she should have nothing at my hands but companionship, and" -with a set and sickly smile-"advice when it was called for. We are partners in our expenses, and the arrangement can be broken up at any moment." 
                     Was this all? No word of love or praise for the fair young thing that had brightened all her household in these two years that Bessie had been fatherless? 
                     I believe there was love and appreciation, but it was not Mrs. Sloman's method to be demonstrative or expansive. She approved of the engagement, and in her grim way had opened an immediate battery of household ledgers and ways and means. Some idea, too, of making me feel easy about taking Bessie away from her, I think, inclined her to this business-like manner. I tried to show her, by my own manner, that I understood her without words, and I think she was very grateful to be spared the expression of feeling. Poor soul! repression had become such a necessity to her! 
                     So we talked on gravely of the weather, and of the celebrated Doctor McQ--, who was expected to give us an argumentative sermon that morning, until my argument came floating in at the door like a calm little bit of thistledown, to which our previous conversation had been as the thistle's self. 
                     The plain little church was gay that morning. Carriage after carriage drove up with much prancing and champing, and group after group of city folk came rustling along the aisles. It was a bit of Fifth Avenue let into Lenox calm. The World and the Flesh were there, at least. 
                     In the hush of expectancy that preceded the minister's arrival there was much waving of scented fans, while the well-bred city glances took in everything without seeming to see. I felt that Bessie and I were being mentally discussed and ticketed. And as it was our first appearance at church since-well, since-perhaps there was just a little consciousness of our relations that made Bessie seem to retire absolutely within herself, and be no more a part of the silken crowd than was the grave, plain man who rose up in the pulpit. 
                     I hope the sermon was satisfactory. I am sure it was convincing to a brown-handed farmer who sat beside us, and who could with difficulty restrain his applauding comment. But I was lost in a dream of a near heaven, and could not follow the spoken word. It was just a quiet little opportunity to contemplate my darling, to tell over her sweetness and her charm, and to say over and again, like a blundering school-boy, "It's all mine! mine!" 
                     The congregation might have been dismissed for aught I knew, and left me sitting there with her beside me. But I was startled into the proprieties as we stood up to sing the concluding hymn. I was standing stock-still beside her, not listening to the words at all, but with a pleasant sense of everything being very comfortable, and an old-fashioned swell of harmony on the air, when suddenly the book dropped from Bessie's hand and fell heavily to the floor. I should have said she flung it down had it been on any other occasion, so rapid and vehement was the action. 
                     I stooped to pick it up, when with a decided gesture she stopped me. I looked at her surprised. Her face was flushed, indignant, I thought, and instantly my conscience was on the rack. What had I done, for my lady was evidently angry? 
                     Glancing down once more toward the book, I saw that she had set her foot upon it, and indeed her whole attitude was one of excitement, defiance. Why did she look so hot and scornful? I was disturbed and anxious: what was there in the book or in me to anger her? 
                     As quickly as possible I drew her away from the bustling crowd when the service was concluded. Fortunately, there was a side-door through which we could pass out into the quiet churchyard, and we vanished through it, leaving Mrs. Sloman far behind. Over into the Lebanon road was but a step, and the little porch was waiting with its cool honeysuckle shade. But Bessie did not stop at the gate: she was in no mood for home. And yet she would not answer my outpouring questions as to whether she was ill, or what was the matter. 
                     "I'll tell you in a minute. Come, hurry!" she said, hastening along up the hill through all the dust and heat. 
                     At last we reached that rustic bit of ruin known popularly as the "Shed." It was a hard bit of climbing, but I rejoiced that Bessie, so flushed and excited at the start, grew calmer as we went; and when, the summit reached, she sat down to rest on a broken board, her color was natural and she seemed to breathe freely again. 
                     "Are they all hypocrites, do you think, Charlie?" she said suddenly, looking up into my face. 
                     "They? who? Bessie, what have I done to make you angry?" 
                     "You? Nothing, dear goose! I am angry at myself and at everybody else. Did it flash upon you, Charlie, what we were singing?" 
                     Then she quoted the lines, which I will not repeat here, but they expressed, as the sole aspiration of the singer, a desire to pass eternity in singing hymns of joy and praise-an impatience for the time to come, a disregard of earth, a turning away from temporal things, and again the desire for an eternity of sacred song. 
                     "Suppose I confess to you," said I, astonished at her earnestness, "that I did not at all know what I was singing?" 
                     "That's just it! just what makes it so dreadful! Nobody was thinking about it-nobody! Nobody there wanted to give up earth and go straight to heaven and sing. I looked round at all the people, with their new bonnets, and the diamonds, and the footmen in the pews up stairs, and I thought, What lies they are all saying! Nobody wants to go to heaven at all until they are a hundred years old, and too deaf and blind and tired out to do anything on earth. My heaven is here and now in my own happiness, and so is yours, Charlie; and I felt so convicted of being a story-teller that I couldn't hold the book in my hand." 
                     "Well, then," said I, "shall we have one set of hymns for happy people, and another for poor, tired-out folks like that little dressmaker that leaned against the wall?" For Bessie herself had called my attention to the pale little body who had come to the church door at the same moment with us. 
                     "No, not two sets. Do you suppose that she, either, wants to sing on for ever? And all those girls! Sorry enough they would be to have to die, and leave their dancing and flirtations and the establishments they hope to have! It wouldn't be much comfort to them to promise them they should sing. Charlie, I want a hymn that shall give thanks that I am alive, that I have you." 
                     "Could the dressmaker sing that?" 
                     "No;" and Bessie's eyes sought the shining blue sky with a wistful, beseeching tenderness. "Oh, it's all wrong, Charlie dear. She ought to tell us in a chant how tired and hopeless she is for this world; and we ought to sing to her something that would cheer her, help her, even in this world. Why must she wait for all her brightness till she dies? So perfectly heartless to stand up along side of her and sing that!" 
                     "Well," I said, "you needn't wait till next Sunday to bring her your words of cheer." 
                     In a minute my darling was crying on my shoulder. I could understand the outburst, and was glad of it. 
                     All athrill with new emotions, new purposes, an eternity of love, she had come to church to be reminded that earth was naught, that the trials and tempests here would come to an end some day, and after, to the patiently victorious, would come the hymns of praise. Earth was very full that morning to her and me; earth was a place for worshipful harmonies; and yet the strong contrast with the poor patient sufferer who had passed into church with us was too much for Bessie: she craved an expression that should comprehend alike her sorrow and our abundant joy. 
                     The tempest of tears passed by, and we had bright skies again. Poor Mrs. Sloman's dinner waited long that day; and it was with a guilty sense that she was waiting too that we went down the hill at a quickened pace when the church clock, sounding up the hillside, came like a chiding voice. 
                     And a double sense of guiltiness was creeping over me. I must return to New York to-morrow, and I had not told Bessie yet of the longer journey I must make so soon. I put it by again and again in the short flying hours of that afternoon; and it was not until dusk had fallen in the little porch, as we sat there after tea, and I had watched the light from Mrs. Sloman's chamber shine down upon the honeysuckles and then go out, that I took my resolution. 
                     "Bessie," I said, leaning over her and taking her face in both my hands, "I have something to tell you." 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER III. 
                     "I HAVE something to tell you;" and without an instant's pause I went on: "Mr. D-- has business in England which cannot be attended to by letter. One of us must go, and they send me. I must sail in two weeks." 
                     It was a thunderbolt out of a clear sky, and Bessie gave a little gasp of surprise: "So soon! Oh, Charlie, take me with you!" Realizing in the next instant the purport of the suggestion, she flung away from my hands and rushed into the parlor, where a dim, soft lamp was burning on the table. She sat down on a low chair beside it and hid her face on the table in her hands. 
                     Like a flash of lightning all the possibilities of our marriage before many days-arranging it with Mrs. Sloman, and satisfying my partners, who would expect me to travel fast and work hard in the short time they had allotted for the journey,-all came surging and throbbing through my brain, while my first answer was not given in words. 
                     When I had persuaded Bessie to look at me and to answer me in turn, I hoped we should be able to talk about it with the calm judgment it needed. 
                     "To leave my wife-my wife!"-how I lingered on the word!-"in some poky lodgings in London, while I am spending my day among dusty boxes and files of deeds in a dark old office, isn't just my ideal of our wedding-journey; but, Bessie, if you wish it so-" 
                     What was there in my tone that jarred her? I had meant to be magnanimous, to think of her comfort alone, of the hurry and business of such a journey-tried to shut myself out and think only of her in the picture. But I failed, of course, and went on stupidly, answering the quick look of question in her eyes: "If you prefer it-that is, you know, I must think of you and not of myself." 
                     Still the keen questioning glance. What new look was this in her eyes, what dawning thought? 
                     "No," she answered after a pause, slowly withdrawing her hand from mine, "think of yourself." 
                     I had expected that she would overwhelm me in her girlish way with saucy protestations that she would be happy even in the dull London lodgings, and that she would defy the law-files to keep me long from her. This sudden change of manner chilled me with a nameless fear. 
                     "If I prefer it! If I wish it! I see that I should be quite in your way, an encumbrance. Don't talk about it any more." 
                     She was very near crying, and I wish to heaven she had cried. But she conquered herself resolutely, and held herself cold and musing before me. I might take her hand, might kiss her unresisting cheek, but she seemed frozen into sudden thoughtfulness that it was impossible to meet or to dispel. 
                      
                     "Bessie, you know you are a little goose! What could I wish for in life but to carry you off this minute to New York? Come, get your hat and let's walk over to the parsonage now. We'll get Doctor Wilder to marry us, and astonish your aunt in the morning." 
                     "Nonsense!" said Bessie with a slight quiver of her pretty, pouting mouth. "Do be rational, Charlie!" 
                     I believe I was rational in my own fashion for a little while, but when I ventured to say in a very unnecessary whisper, "Then you will go abroad with me?" Bessie flushed to her temples and rose from the sofa. She had a way, when she was very much in earnest, or very much stirred with some passionate thought, of pacing the parlor with her hands clasped tightly before her, and her arms tense and straining at the clasping hands. With her head bent slightly forward, and her brown hair hanging in one long tress over her shoulder, she went swiftly up and down, while I lay back on the sofa and watched her. She would speak it out presently, the thought that was hurting her. So I felt secure and waited, following every movement with a lover's eye. But I ought not to have waited. I should have drawn her to me and shared that rapid, nervous walk-should have compelled her with sweet force to render an account of that emotion. But I was so secure, so entirely one with her in thought, that I could conceive of nothing but a passing tempest at my blundering, stupid thoughtfulness for her. 
                     Suddenly at the door she stopped, and with her hand upon it said, "Good-night, Charlie;" and was out of the room in a twinkling. 
                     I sprang from the sofa and to the foot of the stairs, but I saw only a glimpse of her vanishing dress; and though I called after her in low, beseeching tones, "Bessie! Bessie!" a door shut in the distant corridor for only answer. 
                     What to do? In that decorous mansion I could not follow her; and my impulse to dash after her and knock at her door till she answered me, I was forced to put aside after a moment's consideration. 
                     I stood there in the quiet hall, the old clock ticking away a solemn "I-told-you-so!" in the corner. I made one step toward the kitchen to send a message by one of the maids, but recoiled at the suggestion that this would publish a lovers' quarrel. So I retreated along the hall, my footsteps making no noise on the India matting, and entered the parlor again like a thief. I sat down by the table: "Bessie will certainly come back: she will get over her little petulance, and know I am here waiting." 
                     All about the parlor were the traces of my darling. A soft little coil of rose-colored Berlin wool, with its ivory needle sheathed among the stitches, lay in a tiny basket. I lifted it up: the basket was made of scented grass, and there was a delicious sweet and pure fragrance about the knitting-work. I took possession of it and thrust it into my breast-pocket. A magazine she had been reading, with the palest slip of a paper-knife-a bit of delicate Swiss wood-in it, next came in my way. I tried to settle down and read where she had left off, but the words danced before my eyes, and a strange tune was repeating in my ears, "Good-night, Charlie-good-night and good-bye!" 
                     One mad impulse seized me to go out under her window and call to her, asking her to come down. But Lenox nights were very still, and the near neighbors on either side doubtless wide awake to all that was going on around the Sloman cottage. 
                     So I sat still like an idiot, and counted the clock-strokes, and nervously calculated the possibility of her reappearance, until I heard, at last, footsteps coming along the hall in rapid tread. I darted up: "Oh, Bessie, I knew you would come back!" as through the open door walked in-Mary, Mrs. Sloman's maid! 
                     She started at seeing me: "Excuse me, sir. The parlor was so- I thought there was no one here." 
                     "What is it, Mary?" I asked with assumed indifference. "Do you want Miss Bessie? She went up stairs a few moments ago." 
                     "No, sir. I thought-that is-" glancing cing down in awkward confusion at the key she held in her hand. She was retiring again softly when I saw in the key the reason of her discomposure. 
                     "Did you come in to lock up, Mary?" I asked with a laugh. 
                     "Yes, sir. But it is of no consequence. I thought you had gone, sir." 
                     "Time I was, I suppose. Well, Mary, you shall lock me out, and then carry this note to Miss Bessie. It is so late that I will not wait for her. Perhaps she is busy with Mrs. Sloman." 
                     Something in Mary's face made me suspect that she knew Mrs. Sloman to be sound asleep at this moment; but she said nothing, and waited respectfully until I had scribbled a hasty note, rifling Bessie's writing-desk for the envelope in which to put my card. Dear child! there lay my photograph, the first thing I saw as I raised the dainty lid. 
                     "Bessie," I wrote, "I have waited until Mary has come in with her keys, and I suppose I must go. My train starts at nine to-morrow morning, but you will be ready-will you not?-at six to take a morning walk with me. I will be here at that hour. You don't know how disturbed and anxious I shall be till then." 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER IV. 
                     MORNING came-or rather the long night came to an end at last-and at twenty minutes before six I opened the gate at the Sloman cottage. It was so late in September that the morning was a little hazy and uncertain. And yet the air was warm and soft-a perfect reflex, I thought, of Bessie last night-an electric softness under a brooding cloud. 
                     The little house lay wrapped in slumber. I hesitated to pull the bell: no, it would startle Mrs. Sloman. Bessie was coming: she would surely not make me wait. Was not that her muslin curtain stirring? I would wait in the porch-she would certainly come down soon. 
                     So I waited, whistling softly to myself as I pushed the withered leaves about with my stick and drew strange patterns among them. Half an hour passed. 
                     "I will give her a gentle reminder;" so I gathered a spray from the honeysuckle, a late bloom among the fast-falling leaves, and aimed it right at the muslin curtain. The folds parted and it fell into the room, but instead of the answering face that I looked to see, all was still again. 
                     "It's very strange," thought I. "Bessie's pique is not apt to last so long. She must indeed be angry." 
                     And I went over each detail of our last night's talk, from her first burst of "Take me with you!" to my boggling answers, my fears, so stupidly expressed, that it would be anything but a picturesque bridal-trip, and the necessity that there was for rapid traveling and much musty, old research. 
                     "What a fool I was not to take her then and there! She is myself: why shouldn't I, then, be selfish? When I do what of all things I want to, why can't I take it for granted that she will be happy too?" And a hot flush of shame went over me to think that I had been about to propose to her, to my own darling girl, that we should be married as soon as possible after I returned from Europe. 
                     Her love, clearer-sighted, had striven to forestall our separation: why should we be parted all those weary weeks? why put the sea between us? 
                     I had accepted all these obstacles as a dreary necessity, never thinking for the moment that conventional objections might be overcome, aunts and guardians talked over, and the whole matter arranged by two people determined on their own sweet will. 
                     What a lumbering, masculine plan was mine! After I returned from Europe! I grew red and bit my lips with vexation. And now my dear girl was shy and hurt. How should I win back again that sweet impulse of confidence? 
                     Presently the household began to stir. I heard unbarring and unbolting, and craftily retreated to the gate, that I might seem to be just coming in, to the servant who should open the door. 
                      
                     It was opened by a housemaid-not the Mary of the night before-who stared a moment at seeing me, but on my asking if Miss Bessie was ready yet to walk, promised smilingly to go and see. She returned in a moment, saying that Miss Bessie begged that I would wait: she was hurrying to come down. 
                     The child! She has slept too soundly. I shall tell her how insensate she must have been, how serenely unconscious when the flower came in at the window. 
                     The clock on the mantel struck seven and the half hour before Bessie appeared. She was very pale, and her eyes looked away at my greeting. Passively she suffered herself to be placed in a chair, and then, with something of her own manner, she said hurriedly, "Don't think I got your note, Charlie, last night, or I wouldn't, indeed I wouldn't, have kept you waiting so long this morning." 
                     "Didn't Mary bring it to you?" I asked, surprised. 
                     "Yes: that is, she brought it up to my room, but, Charlie dear, I wasn't there: I wasn't there all night. I did shut my door, though I heard you calling, and after a little while I crept out into the entry and looked over the stairs, hoping you were there still, and that I could come back to you. But you were not there, and everything was so still that I was sure you had gone-gone without a word. I listened and listened, but I was too proud to go down into the parlor and see. And yet I could not go back to my room, next Aunt Sloman's. I went right up stairs to the blue room, and stayed there. Mary must have put your note on my table when she came up stairs. I found it there this morning when I went down." 
                     "Poor darling! And what did you do all night in the blue room? I am afraid," looking at her downcast eyes, "that you did not sleep-that you were angry at me." 
                     "At you? No, at myself," she said very low. 
                     "Bessie, you know that my first and only thought was of the hurry and worry this journey would cost you. You know that to have you with me was something that I had scarce dared to dream." 
                     "And therefore," with a flash of blue eyes, "for me to dare to dream it was-" and again she hid her face. 
                     "But, my precious, don't you know that it was for you to suggest what I wanted all the time, but thought it would be too much to ask?" For I had discovered, of course, in my morning's work among the dead leaves on the porch, that I had desired it from the moment I had known of my journey-desired it without acknowledging it to myself or presuming to plan upon it. 
                     At this juncture breakfast was announced, and the folding doors thrown open that led into the breakfast-parlor, disclosing Mrs. Sloman seated by the silver urn, and a neat little table spread for three, so quick had been the housemaid's intuitions. 
                     "Good-morning, Charles: come get some breakfast. You will hardly be in time for your train," suggested Aunt Sloman in a voice that had in it all the gloom of the morning. Indeed, the clouds had gathered heavily during the parlor scene, and some large drops were rattling against the window. 
                     I looked at my watch. After eight! Pshaw! I will let this train go, and will telegraph to the office. I can take the night train, and thus lose only a few hours. So I stayed. 
                     What rare power had Bessie in the very depths of her trouble, and with her face pale and eyes so heavy with her last night's vigil-what gift that helped her to be gay? Apparently not with an effort, not forced, she was as joyous and frank as her sunniest self. No exaggeration of laughter or fun, but the brightness of her every-day manner, teasing and sparkling round Aunt Sloman, coquetting very naturally with me. It was a swift change from the gloomy atmosphere we had left behind in the parlor, and I basked in it delighted, and feeling, poor fool! that the storm was cleared away, and that the time for the singing of birds was come. 
                     I was the more deceived. I did not know all of Bessie yet. Her horror of a scene, of any suspicion that there was discord between us, and her rare self-control, that for the moment put aside all trouble, folded it out of sight and took up the serene old life again for a little space. 
                     "Aunt Maria," said Bessie, pushing aside her chair, "won't you take care of Mr. Munro for a little while? I have a letter to write that I want him to take to New York." 
                     Aunt Maria would be happy to entertain me, or rather to have me entertain her. If I would read to her, now, would I be so kind, while she washed up her breakfast cups? 
                     How people can do two things at once I am sure I cannot understand; and while the maid brought in the large wooden bowl, the steam of whose household incense rose high in the air, I watched impatient for the signal to begin. When the tea-cups were all collected, and Aunt Sloman held one by the handle daintily over the "boiling flood," "Now," she said with a serene inclination of her head, "if you please." 
                     And off I started at a foot-pace through the magazine that had been put into my hands. Whether it was anything about the "Skelligs," or "Miss Sedgwick's Letters," or "Stanley-Livingstone," I have not the remotest idea. I was fascinated by the gentle dip of each teacup, and watched from the corner of my eye the process of polishing each glittering spoon on a comfortable crash towel. 
                     Then my thoughts darted off to Bessie. Was she indeed writing to her old trustee? Judge Hubbard was a friend of my father's, and would approve of me, I thought, if he did not agree at once to the hurried marriage and ocean journey. 
                     "What an unconscionable time it takes her! Don't you think so, Mrs. Sloman?" I said at last, after I had gone through three several papers on subjects unknown. 
                     I suppose it was scarcely a courteous speech. But Mrs. Sloman smiled a white-lipped smile of sympathy, and said, "Yes: I will go and send her to you." 
                     "Oh, don't hurry her," I said falsely, hoping, however, that she would. 
                     Did I say before that Bessie was tall? Though so slight that you always wanted to speak of her with some endearing diminutive, she looked taller than ever that morning; and as she stood before me, coming up to the fireplace where I was standing, her eyes looked nearly level into mine. I did not understand their veiled expression, and before I had time to study it she dropped them and said hastily, "Young man, I am pining for a walk." 
                     "In the rain?" 
                     "Pshaw! This is nothing, after all, but a Scotch mist. See, I am dressed for it;" and she threw a tartan cloak over her shoulder-a blue-and-green tartan that I had never seen before. 
                     "The very thing for shipboard," I whispered as I looked at her admiringly. 
                     Her face was flushed enough now, but she made no answer save to stop down and pat the silly little terrier that had come trotting into the room with her. 
                     "Fidget shall go-yes, he shall go walking;" and Fidget made a gray ball of himself in his joy at the permission. 
                     Up the hill again we walked, with the little Skye terrier cantering in advance or madly chasing the chickens across the road. 
                     "Did you finish your letter satisfactorily?" I asked, for I was fretting with impatience to know its contents. 
                     "Yes. I will give it to you when you leave to-night." 
                     "Shall we say next Saturday, Bessie?" said I, resolving to plunge at once into the sea of our late argument. 
                     "For what? For you to come again? Don't you always come on Saturday?" 
                     "Yes, but this time I mean to carry you away." 
                     A dead pause, which I improved by drawing her hand under my arm and imprisoning her little gray glove with my other hand. As she did not speak, I went on fatuously: "You don't need any preparation of gowns and shawls; you can buy your trousseau in London, if need be; and we'll settle on the ship, coming over, how and where we are to live in New York." 
                     "You think, then, that I am all ready to be married?" 
                     "I think that my darling is superior to the nonsense of other girls-that she will be herself always, and doesn't need any masquerade of wedding finery." 
                     "You think, then," coldly and drawing her hand away, "that I am different from other girls?" and the scarlet deepened on her cheek. "You think I say and do things other girls would not?" 
                     "My darling, what nonsense! You say and do things that other girls cannot, nor could if they tried a thousand years." 
                     "Thanks for the compliment! It has at least the merit of dubiousness. Now, Charlie, if you mention Europe once in this walk I shall be seriously offended. Do let us have a little peace and a quiet talk." 
                     "Why, what on earth can we talk about until this is settled? I can't go back to New York, and engage our passage, and go to see Judge Hubbard- I suppose you were writing to him this morning?" 
                     She did not answer, but seemed bent on making the dainty print of her foot in the moist earth of the road, taking each step carefully, as though it were the one important and engrossing thing in life. 
                     "-Unless," I went on, "you tell me you will be ready to go back with me this day week. You see, Bessie dear, I must sail on the fixed day. And if we talk it over now and settle it all, it will save no end of writing to and fro." 
                     "Good-morning!" said a gay voice behind us-Fanny Meyrick's voice. She was just coming out of one of the small houses on the roadside. "Don't you want some company? I've been to call on my washerwoman, and I'm so glad I've met you. Such an English morning! Shall I walk with you?" 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER V. 
                     IF I could have changed places with Fidget, I could scarce have expressed my disapproval of the new-comer more vehemently than he. Miss Meyrick seemed quite annoyed at the little dog's uncalled-for snapping and barking, and shook her umbrella at him in vain. I was obliged to take him in hand myself at last, and to stand in the road and order him to "Go home!" while the two young ladies walked on, apparently the best of friends. 
                     When I rejoined them Fanny Meyrick was talking fast and unconnectedly, as was her habit: "Yes, lodgings in London-the dearest old house in Clarges street. Such a butler! He looks like a member of Parliament. We stayed there once before for three days. I am just going to settle into an English girl. Had enough of the Continent. Never do see England now-a-days, nobody. All rush off. So papa is going to have a comfortable time. Embassy? Oh, I know the general well." 
                     I looked beseechingly at Bessie. Why wouldn't she say that we too would be there in London lodgings? Perhaps, then, Fanny Meyrick might take the hint and leave us soon. 
                     But Bessie gave no sign, and I relapsed into a somewhat impatient rsum of my own affairs. Yes: married quietly on Saturday; leave here on Monday morning train; take, yes, Wednesday's steamer. I could arrange it with my law-partners to be absent a little longer perhaps, that there might be some little rest and romance about the wedding-journey. 
                     Two or three times in the course of that morning-for she stayed with us all the morning-Fanny Meyrick rallied me on my preoccupation and silence: "He didn't use to be so, Bessie, years ago, I assure you. It's very disagreeable, sir-not an improvement by any means." 
                     Then-I think without any malice prepense, simply the unreasoning rattle of a belle of two seasons-she plunged into a description of a certain fte at Blankkill on the Hudson, the occasion of our first acquaintance: "He was so young, Bessie, you can't imagine, and blushed so beautifully that all the girls were jealous as could be. We were very good friends-weren't we?-all that summer?" 
                     "And are still, I hope," said I with my most sweeping bow. "What have I done to forfeit Miss Meyrick's esteem?" 
                     "Nothing, except that you used to find your way oftener to Meyrick Place than you do now. Well, I won't scold you for that: I shall make up for that on the other side." 
                     What did she mean? She had no other meaning than that she would have such compensation in English society that her American admirers would not be missed. She did not know of my going abroad. 
                     But Bessie darted a quick glance from her to me, and back again to her, as though some dawning suspicion had come to her. "I hope," she said quietly, "that you may have a pleasant winter. It will be delightful, won't it, Charlie?" 
                     "Oh, very!" I answered, but half noting the under-meaning of her words, my mind running on deck state-rooms and the like. 
                     "Charlie," said Miss Meyrick suddenly, "do you remember what happened two years ago to-day?" 
                     "No, I think not." 
                     Taking out a little book bound in Russia leather and tipped with gold, she handed it to Bessie, who ran her eye down the page: it was open at September 28th. 
                     "Read it," said Fanny, settling herself composedly in her shawl, and leaning back against a tree with half-shut eyes. 
                     "'September 28th,'" Bessie read, in clear tones which had a strange constraint in them, "'Charlie Munro saved my life. I shall love him for ever and ever. We were out in a boat, we two, on the Hudson-moonlight-I was rowing. Dropt my oar into the water. Leaned out after it and upset the boat. Charlie caught me and swam with me to shore.'" 
                     A dead silence as Bessie closed the book and held it in her hand. 
                     "Oh," said I lightly, "that isn't worth chronicling-that! It was no question of saving lives. The New York boat was coming up, if I remember." 
                     "Yes, it was in trying to steer away from it that I dropped my oar." 
                     "So you see it would have picked us up, any how. There was nothing but the ducking to remember." 
                     "Such a figure, Bessie! Imagine us running along the road to the gate! I could scarcely move for my dripping skirts; and we frightened papa so when we stepped up on the piazza out of the moonlight!" 
                     To stop this torrent of reminiscences, which, though of nothings, I could see was bringing the red spot to Bessie's cheek, I put out my hand for the book: "Let me write something down to-day;" and I hastily scribbled: "September 28. Charles Munro and Bessie Stewart, to sail for Europe in ten days, ask of their friend Fanny Meyrick her warm congratulations." 
                     "Will that do?" I whispered as I handed the book to Bessie. 
                     "Not at all," said Bessie scornfully and coldly, tearing out the leaf as she spoke and crumpling it in her hand.-"Sorry to spoil your book, Fanny dear, but the sentiment would have spoiled it more. Let us go home." 
                     As we passed the hotel on that dreary walk home, Fanny would have left us, but Bessie clung to her and whispered something in a pleading voice, begging her, evidently, to come home with us. 
                     "If Mr. Munro will take word to papa," she said, indicating that worthy, who sat on the upper piazza smoking his pipe. 
                     "We will walk on," said Bessie coldly. "Come, Fanny dear." 
                     Strange, thought I as I turned on my heel, this sudden fond intimacy! Bessie is angry. Why did I never tell her of the ducking? And yet when I remembered how Fanny had clung to me, how after we had reached the shore I had been forced to remind her that it was no time for sentimental gratitude when we both were shivering, I could see why I had refrained from mentioning it to Bessie until our closer confidences would allow of it. 
                     No man, unless he be a downright coxcomb, will ever admit to one woman that another woman has loved him. To his wife-perhaps. But how much Fanny Meyrick cared for me I had never sought to know. After the dismal ending of that moonlight boat-row-I had been already disenchanted for some time before-I had scarce called at Meyrick Place more than civility required. The young lady was so inclined to exaggerate the circumstance, to hail me as her deliverer, that I felt like the hero of a melodrama whenever we met. And after I had met Bessie there were pleasanter things to think about-much pleasanter. 
                     How exasperating girls can be when they try! I had had my cong for the walk home, I knew, and I was vexed enough to accept it and stay at the hotel to dinner. 
                     "I will not be played upon in this way. Bessie knows that I stayed over the morning train just to be with her, and piled up for to-morrow no end of work, as well as sarcastic remarks from D. & Co. If she chooses to show off her affection for Fanny Meyrick in these few hours that we have together-Fanny Meyrick whom she hated yesterday-she may enjoy her friendship undisturbed by me." 
                     So I loitered with my cigar after dinner, and took a nap on the sofa in my room. I was piqued, and did not care to conceal it. As the clock struck five I bethought me it was time to betake me to the Sloman cottage. A sound of wheels and a carriage turning brought me to the window. The two young ladies were driving off in Fanny Meyrick's phaeton, having evidently come to the hotel and waited while it was being made ready. 
                     "Pique for pique! Serves me right, I suppose." 
                     Evening found me at the Sloman cottage, waiting with Mrs. Sloman by the tea-table. Why do I always remember her, sitting monumental by the silver urn? 
                     "The girls are very late to-night." 
                     "Yes." I was beginning to be uneasy. It was nearing train-time again. 
                     "Such lovely moonlight, I suppose, has tempted them, or they may be staying at Foxcroft to tea." 
                     Indeed? I looked at my watch: I had ten minutes. 
                     A sound of wheels: the phaeton drove up. 
                     "Oh, Charlie," said Bessie as she sprang out, "you bad boy! you'll miss your train again. Fanny here will drive you to the hotel. Jump in, quick!" 
                     And as the moonlight shone full on her face I looked inquiringly into her eyes. 
                     "The letter," I said, "for Judge Hubbard?" hoping that she would go to the house for it, and then I could follow her for a word. 
                     "Oh! I had almost forgotten. Here it is;" and she drew it from her pocket and held it out to me in her gloved hand. I pressed the hand to my lips, riding-glove and all, and sprang in beside Fanny, who was with some difficulty making her horse stand still. 
                     "Good-bye!" from the little figure at the gate. "Don't forget, Fanny, tomorrow at ten;" and we were off. 
                     By the wretched kerosene lamp of the car, going down, I read my letter, for it was for me: "I will not go to Europe, and I forbid you to mention it again. I shall never, never forget that I proposed it, and that you-accepted it. Come up to Lenox once more before you go." 
                     This was written in ink, and was sealed. It was the morning's note. But across the envelope these words were written in pencil: "Go to Europe with Fanny Meyrick, and come up to Lenox, both of you, when you return." 
                   
                
                
                   
                  PART II. 
                   
                     CHAPTER VI. 
                     I HAD a busy week of it in New York-copying out instructions, taking notes of marriages and intermarriages in 1690, and writing each day a long, pleading letter to Bessie. There was a double strain upon me: all the arrangements for my client's claims, and in an undercurrent the arguments to overcome Bessie's decision, went on in my brain side by side. 
                     I could not, I wrote to her, make the voyage without her. It would be the shipwreck of all my new hopes. It was cruel in her to have raised such hopes unless she was willing to fulfill them: it made the separation all the harder. I could not and would not give up the plan. "I have engaged our passage in the Wednesday's steamer: say yes, dear child, and I will write to Dr. Wilder from here." 
                     I could not leave for Lenox before Saturday morning, and I hoped to be married on the evening of that day. But to all my pleading came "No," simply written across a sheet of note-paper in my darling's graceful hand. 
                     Well, I would go up on the Saturday, nevertheless. She would surely yield when she saw me faithful to my word. 
                     "I shall be a sorry-looking bridegroom," I thought as I surveyed myself in the little mirror at the office. It was Friday night, and we were shutting up. We had worked late by gaslight, all the clerks had gone home long ago, and only the porter remained, half asleep on a chair in the hall. 
                     It was striking nine as I gathered up my bundle of papers and thrust them into a bag. I was rid of them for three days at least. "Bill, you may lock up now," I said, tapping the sleepy porter on the shoulder. 
                     "Oh, Mr. Munro, shure here's a card for yees," handing me a lady's card. 
                     "Who left it, Bill?" I hurriedly asked, taking it to the flaring gaslight on the stairway. 
                     "Two ladies in a carriage-an old 'un and a pretty young lady, shure. They charged me giv' it yees, and druv' off." 
                     "And why didn't you bring it in, you blockhead?" I shouted, for it was Bessie Stewart's card. On it was written in pencil: "Westminster Hotel. On our way through New York. Leave on the 8 train for the South to-night. Come up to dinner." 
                     The eight-o'clock train, and it was now striking nine! 
                     "Shure, Mr. Charles, you had said you was not to be disturbed on no account, and that I was to bring in no messages." 
                     "Did you tell those ladies that? What time were they here?" 
                     "About five o'clock-just after you had shut the dure, and the clerks was gone. Indeed, and they didn't wait for no reply, but hearin' you were in there, they druv' off the minute they give me the card. The pretty young lady didn't like the looks of our office, I reckon." 
                     It was of no use to storm at Bill. He had simply obeyed orders like a faithful machine. So, after a hot five minutes, I rushed up to the Westminster. Perhaps they had not gone. Bessie would know there was a mistake, and would wait for me. 
                     But they were gone. On the books of the hotel were registered in a clear hand, Bessie's hand, "Mrs. M. Antoinette Sloman and maid; Miss Bessie Stewart." They had arrived that afternoon, must have driven directly from the train to the office, and had dined, after waiting a little time for some one who did not come. 
                     "And where were they going?" I asked of the sympathetic clerk, who seemed interested. 
                     "Going South-I don't know where. The elder lady seemed delicate, and the young lady quite anxious that she should stay here to-night and go on in the morning. But no, she would go on tonight." 
                     I took the midnight train for Philadelphia. They would surely not go farther to-night if Mrs. Sloman seemed such an invalid. 
                     I scanned every hotel-book in vain. I walked the streets of the city, and all the long Sunday I haunted one or two churches that my memory suggested to me were among the probabilities for that day. They were either not in the city or most securely hid. 
                     And all this time there was a letter in the New York post-office waiting for me. I found it at my room when I went back to it on Monday noon. 
                     It ran as follows: 
                     "WESTMINSTER HOTEL. "Very sorry not to see you-Aunt Sloman especially sorry; but she has set her heart on going to Philadelphia to-night. We shall stay at a private house, a quiet boarding-house; for aunt goes to consult Dr. R-- there, and wishes to be very retired. I shall not give you our address: as you sail so soon, it would not be worth while to come over. I will write you on the other side. B. S." 
                     Where's a Philadelphia directory? Where is this Dr. R--? I find him, sure enough-such a number Walnut street. Time is precious-Monday noon! 
                     "I'll transfer my berth to the Saturday steamer: that will do as well. Can't help it if they do scold at the office." 
                     To drive to the Cunard company's office and make the transfer took some little time, but was not this my wedding holiday? I sighed as I again took my seat in the car at Jersey City. On this golden Monday afternoon I should have been slowly coming down the Housatonic Valley, with my dear little wife beside me. Instead, the unfamiliar train, and the fat man at my side reading a campaign newspaper, and shaking his huge sides over some broad burlesque. 
                     The celebrated surgeon, Dr. R--, was not at home in answer to my ring on Monday evening. 
                     "How soon will he be in? I will wait." 
                     "He can see no patients to-night sir," said the man; "and he may not be home until midnight." 
                     "But I am an impatient," I might have urged, when a carriage dashed up to the door. A slight little man descended, and came slowly up the steps. 
                     "Dr. R--?" I said inquiringly. 
                     "Yes, sir." 
                     "Just one minute, doctor, if you please. I only want to get an address from you." 
                     He scanned me from head to foot: "Walk into my office, young man." 
                     I might have wondered at the brusqueness of his manner had I not caught a glimpse of myself in the mirror over the mantelshelf. Dusty and worn, and with a keen look of anxiety showing out of every feature, I should scarcely have recognized myself. 
                     I explained as collectedly as possible that I wanted the address of one of his patients, a dear old friend of mine, whom I had missed as she passed through New York, and that, as I was about to sail for Europe in a few days, I had rushed over to bid her good-bye. "Mrs. Antoinette Sloman, it is, doctor." 
                     The doctor eyed me keenly: he put out his hand to the little silver bell that stood on the table and tapped it sharply. The servant appeared at the door: "Let the carriage wait, James." 
                     Again the watchful, keen expression. Did he think me an escaped lunatic, or that I had an intent to rob the old lady? Apparently the scrutiny was satisfactory, for he took out a little black book from his pocket, and turning over the leaves, said, "Certainly, here it is-No. 30 Elm street, West Philadelphia." 
                     Over the river, then, again: no wonder I had not seen them in the Sunday's search. 
                     "I will take you over," said Dr. R-, replacing the book in his pocket again. "Mrs. Sloman is on my list. Wait till I eat a biscuit, and I'll drive you over in my carriage." 
                      
                     Shrewd little man! thought I: if I am a convict or a lunatic with designs on Mrs. Sloman, he is going to be there to see. 
                     "Till he ate a biscuit?" I should think so. To his invitation, most courteously urged, that I should come and share his supper-"You've just come from the train, and you won't get back to your hotel for two hours, at least"-I yielded a ready acceptance, for I was really very hungry: I forget whether I had eaten anything all day. 
                     But the biscuit proved to be an elegant little supper served in glittering plate, and the doctor lounged over the tempting bivalves until I could scarce conceal my impatience. 
                     "Do you chance to know," he said carelessly, as at last we rose from the table and he flung his napkin down, "Mrs. Sloman's niece, Miss Stewart?" 
                     "Excellently well," I said smiling: "in fact, I believe I am engaged to be married to her." 
                     "My dear fellow," said the doctor, bursting out laughing, "I am delighted to hear it! Take my carriage and go. I saw you were a lawyer, and you looked anxious and hurried; and I made up my mind that you had come over to badger the old lady into making her will. I congratulate you with all my soul-and myself, too," he added, shaking my hand. "Only think! Had it not been for your frankness, I should have taken a five-mile ride to watch you and keep you from doing my patient an injury." 
                     The good doctor quite hurried me into the carriage in the effusion of his discovery; and I was soon rolling away in that luxurious vehicle over the bridge, and toward Bessie at last. 
                     I cannot record that interview in words, nor can I now set down any but the mere outline of our talk. My darling came down to meet me with a quick flush of joy that she did not try to conceal. She was natural, was herself, and only too glad, after the contretemps in New York, to see me again. She pitied me as though I had been a tired child when I told her pathetically of my two journeys to Philadelphia, and laughed outright at my interview with Dr. R--. 
                     I was so sure of my ground. When I came to speak of the journey-our journey-I knew I should prevail. It was a deep wound, and she shrank from any talk about it. I had to be very gentle and tender before she would listen to me at all. 
                     But there was something else at work against me-what was it?-something that I could neither see nor divine. And it was not altogether made up of Aunt Sloman, I was sure. 
                     "I cannot leave her now, Charlie. Dr. R-- wishes her to remain in Philadelphia, so that he can watch her case. That settles it, Charlie: I must stay with her." 
                     That was there to be said? "Is there no one else, no one to take your place?" 
                     "Nobody; and I would not leave her even if there were." 
                     Still, I was unsatisfied. A feeling of uneasiness took possession of me. I seemed to read in Bessie's eyes that there was a thought between us hidden out of sight. There is no clairvoyant like a lover. I could see the shadow clearly enough, but whence, in her outer life, had the shadow come? Between us, surely, it could not be. Even her anxiety for her aunt could not explain it: it was something concealed. 
                     When at last I had to leave her, "So to-morrow is your last day?" she said. 
                     "No, not the last. I have changed my passage to the Saturday steamer." 
                     The strange look came into her face again. Never before did blue eyes wear such a look of scrutiny. 
                     "Well, what is it?" I asked laughingly as I looked straight into her eyes. 
                     "The Saturday steamer," she said musingly-"the Algeria, isn't it? I thought you were in a hurry?" 
                     "It was my only chance to have you," I explained, and apparently the argument was satisfactory enough. 
                     With the saucy little upward toss with which she always dismissed a subject, "Then it isn't good-bye to-night?" she said. 
                      
                     "Yes, for two days. I shall run over again on Thursday." 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER VII. 
                     THE two days passed, and the Thursday, and the Friday's parting, harder for Bessie, as it seemed, than she had thought for. It was hard to raise her dear little head from my shoulder when the last moment came, and to rush down stairs to the cab, whose shivering horse and implacable driver seemed no bad emblem of destiny on that raw October morning. 
                     I was glad of the lowering sky as I stepped up the gangway to the ship's deck. "What might have been" went down the cabin stairs with me; and as I threw my wraps and knapsack into the double state-room I had chosen I felt like a widower. 
                     It was wonderful to me then, as I sat down on the side of the berth and looked around me, how the last two weeks had filled all the future with dreams. "I must have a genius for castle-building," I laughed. "Well, the reality is cold and empty enough. I'll go up on deck." 
                     On deck, among the piles of luggage, were various metal-covered trunks marked M-. I remember now watching them as they were stowed away. 
                     But it was with a curious shock, an hour after we had left the dock, that a turn in my solitary walk on deck brought me face to face with Fanny Meyrick. 
                     "You here?" she said. "I thought you had sailed in the Russia! Bessie told me you were to go then." 
                     "Did she know," I asked, "that you were going by this steamer?" 
                     On my life, never was gallantry farther from my thoughts: my question concerned Bessie alone, but Fanny apparently took it as a compliment, and looked up gayly: "Oh yes: that was fixed months ago. I told her about it at Lenox." 
                     "And did she tell you something else?" I asked sharply. 
                     "Oh yes. I was very glad to hear of your good prospect. Do be congratulated, won't you?" 
                     Rather an odd way to put it, thought I, but it is Fanny Meyrick's way. "Good prospect!" Heavens! was that the term to apply to my engagement with Bessie? 
                     I should have insisted on a distincter utterance and a more flattering expression of the situation had it been any other woman. But a lingering suspicion that perhaps the subject was a distasteful one to Fanny Meyrick made me pause, and a few moments after, as some one else joined her, I left her and went to the smokestack for my cigar. 
                     It was impossible, in the daily monotony of ship-life, to avoid altogether the young lady whom Fate had thrown in my way. She was a most provokingly good sailor, too. Other women stayed below or were carried in limp bundles to the deck at noon; but Fanny, perfectly poised, with the steady glow in her cheek, was always ready to amuse or be amused. 
                     I tried, at first, keeping out of her way, with the Trois Mousquetaires for company. But it seemed to me, as she knew of my engagement, such avoidance was anything but complimentary to her. Loyalty to her sex would forbid me to show that I had read her secret. Why not meet her on the frank, breezy ground of friendship? 
                     Perhaps, after all, there was no secret. Perhaps her feeling was only one of girlish gratitude, however needless, for pulling her out of the Hudson River. I did not know. 
                     Nor was I particularly pleased with the companion to whom she introduced me on our third day out-Father Shamrock, an Irish priest, long resident in America, and bound now for Maynooth. How he had obtained an introduction to her I do not know, except in the easy, fatherly way he seemed to have with every one on board. 
                     "Pshaw!" thought I, "what a nuisance!" for I shared the common antipathy to his country and his creed. Nor was his appearance prepossessing-one of Froude's "tonsured peasants," as I looked down at the square shoulders, the stout, short figure and the broad beardlessness of the face of the padre. But his voice, rich and mellow, attracted me in spite of myself. His eyes were sparkling with kindly humor, and his laugh was irresistible. 
                     A perfect man of the world, with no priestly austerity about him, he seemed a perpetual anxiety to the two young priests at his heels. They were on their dignity always, and, though bound to hold him in reverence as their superior in age and rank, his songs and his gay jests were evidently as thorns in their new cassocks. 
                     Father Shamrock was soon the star of the ship's company. Perfectly suave, his gayety had rather the French sparkle about it than the distinguishing Italian trait, and his easy manner had a dash of manliness which I had not thought to find. Accomplished in various tongues, rattling off a gay little chanson or an Irish song, it was a sight to see the young priests looking in from time to time at the cabin door in despair as the clock pointed to nine, and Father Shamrock still sat the centre of a gay and laughing circle. 
                     He had rare tact, too, in talking to women. Of all the ladies on the Algeria, I question if there were any but the staunchest Protestants. Some few held themselves aloof at first and declined an introduction. "Father Shamrock! An Irish priest! How can Miss Meyrick walk with him and present him as she does?" But the party of recalcitrants grew less and less, and Fanny Meyrick was very frank in her admiration. "Convert you?" she laughed over her shoulder to me. "He wouldn't take the trouble to try." 
                     And I believe, indeed, he would not. His strong social nature was evidently superior to any ambition of his cloth. He would have made a famous diplomat but for the one quality of devotion that was lacking. I use the word in its essential, not in its religious sense-devotion to an idea, the faith in a high purpose. 
                     We had one anxious day of it, and only one. A gale had driven most of the passengers to the seclusion of their state-rooms, and left the dinner-table a desert. Alone in the cabin, Father Shamrock, Fanny Meyrick, a young Russian and myself: I forget a vigilant duenna, the only woman on board unreconciled to Father Shamrock. She lay prone on one of the seats, her face rigid and hands clasped in an agony of terror. She was afraid, she afterward confessed to me, to go to her state-room: nearness and voices seemed a necessity to her. 
                     When I joined the party, Father Shamrock, as usual, was the narrator. But he had dropped out of his voice all the gay humor, and was talking very soberly. Some story he was telling, of which I gathered, as he went on, that it was of a young lady, a rich and brilliant society woman. "Shot right through the heart at Chancellorsville, and he the only brother. They two, orphans, were all that were left of the family. He was her darling, just two years younger than she. 
                     "I went to see her, and found her in an agony. She had not kissed him when he left her: some little laughing tiff between them, and she had expected to see him again before his regiment marched. She threw herself on her knees and made confession; and then she took a holy vow: if the saints would grant her once more to behold his body, she would devote herself hereafter to God's holy Church. 
                     "She gathered all her jewels together in a heap and cast them at my feet. 'Take them, Father, for the Church: if I find him I shall not wear them again-or if I do not find him.' 
                     "I went with her to the front of battle, and we found him after a time. It was a search, but we found his grave, and we brought him home with us. Poor boy! beyond recognition, except for the ring he wore; but she gave him the last kiss, and then she was ready to leave the world. She took the vows as Sister Clara, the holy vows of poverty and charity." 
                     "But, Father," said Fanny, with a new depth in her eyes, "did she not die behind the bars? To be shut up in a convent with that grief at her heart!" 
                     "Bars there were none," said the Father gently. "She left her vocation to me, and I decided for her to become a Sister of Mercy. I have little sympathy," with a shrug half argumentative, half deprecatory-"but little sympathy with the conventual system for spirits like hers. She would have wasted and worn away in the offices of prayer. She needed action. And she had the full of it in her calling. She went from bedside to bedside of the sick and dying-here a child in a fever; there a widow-woman in the last stages of consumption-night after night, and day after day, with no rest, no thought of herself." 
                     "Oh, I have seen her," I could not help interposing, "in a city car. A shrouded figure that was conspicuous even in her serge dress. She read a book of Hours all the time, but I caught one glimpse of her eyes: they were very brilliant." 
                     "Yes," sighed the Father, "it was an unnatural brightness. I was called away to Montreal, or I should never have permitted the sacrifice. She went wherever the worst cases were of contagion and poverty, and she would have none to relieve her at her post. So, when I returned after three months' absence, I was shocked at the change: she was dying of their family disease. 'It is better, so,' she said, 'dear Father. It was only the bullet that saved Harry from it, and it would have been sure to come to me at last, after some opera or ball.' She died last winter-so patient and pure, and such a saintly sufferer!" 
                     The Father wiped his eyes. Why should I think of Bessie? Why should the Sister's veiled figure and pale ardent face rise before me, as if in warning? 
                     Of just such overwhelming sacrifice was my darling capable were her life's purpose wrecked. Something there was in the portrait of the sweet singleness, the noble scorn of self, the devotion unthinking, uncalculating, which I knew lay hidden in her soul. 
                     The Father warmed into other themes, all in the same key of mother Church. I listened dreamily, and to my own thoughts as well. 
                     He pictured the priest's life of poverty, renunciation, leaving the world of men, the polish and refinement of scholars, to take the confidences and bear the burdens of grimy poverty and ignorance. Surely, I thought, we do wrong to shut such men out of our sympathies, to label them "Dangerous." Why should we turn the cold shoulder? are we so true to our ideals? But one glance at the young priests as they sat crouching in the outer cabin, telling their beads and crossing themselves with the vehemence of a frightened faith, was enough. Father Shamrock was no type. Very possibly his own life would show but coarse and poor against the chaste, heroic portraits he had drawn. He had the dramatic faculty: for the moment he was what he related-that was all. 
                     Our vigilant duenna had gradually risen to a sitting posture, and drawn nearer and nearer, and as the narrator's voice sank into silence she said with effusion, "Well, you are a good man, I guess." 
                     But Fanny Meyrick sat as if entranced. The gale had died away, and, to break the spell, I asked her if she wanted to take one peep on deck, to see if there was a star in the heavens. 
                     There was no star, but a light rising and falling with the ship's motion, which was pronounced by a sailor to be Queenstown light, shone in the distance. 
                     The Father was to leave us there. "We shall not make it to-night," said the sailor. "It is too rough. Early in the morning the passengers will land." 
                     "I wish," said Fanny with a deep sigh, as if wakening from a dream, "that the Church of Rome was at the bottom of the sea!" 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER VIII. 
                     ARRIVED at our dock, I hurried off to catch the train for London. The Meyricks lingered for a few weeks in Wales before coming to settle down for the winter. I was glad of it, for I could make my arrangements unhampered. So I carefully eliminated Clarges street from my list of lodging-houses, and finally "ranged" myself with a neat landlady in Sackville street. 
                     How anxiously I awaited the first letter from Bessie! As the banker's clerk handed it over the counter to me, instead of the heavy envelope I had hoped for, it was a thin slip of an affair that fluttered away from my hand. It was so very slim and light that I feared to open it there, lest it should be but a mocking envelope, nothing more. 
                     So I hastened back to my cab, and, ordering the man to drive to the law-offices, tore it open as I jumped in. It enclosed simply a printed slip, cut from some New York paper-a list of the Algeria's passengers. 
                     "What joke is this?" I said as I scanned it more closely. 
                     By some spite of fortune my name was printed directly after the Meyrick party. Was it for this, this paltry thing, that Bessie has denied me a word? I turned over the envelope, turned it inside out-not a penciled word even! 
                     The shadow that I had seen on that good-bye visit to Philadelphia was clear to me now. I had said at Lenox, repeating the words after Bessie with fatal emphasis, "I am glad, very glad, that Fanny Meyrick is to sail in October. I would not have her stay on this side for worlds!" Then the next day, twenty-four hours after, I told her that I too was going abroad. Coward that I was, not to tell her at first! She might have been sorry, vexed, but not suspicious.
                      
                     Yes, that was the ugly word I had to admit, and to admit that I had given it room to grow. 
                     My first hesitancy about taking her with me, my transfer from the Russia to the later steamer, and, to crown all, that leaf from Fanny's pocket-book: "I shall love him for ever and ever"! 
                     And yet she had faith in me. She had told Fanny Meyrick we were engaged. Had she not? 
                     My work in London was more tedious and engrossing than I had expected. Even a New York lawyer has much to learn of the law's delay in those pompous old offices amid the fog. Had I been working for myself, I should have thrown up the case in despair, but advices from our office said "Stick to it," and I stayed. 
                     Eating out my own heart with anxiety whenever I thought of my home affair, perhaps it was well for me that I had the monotonous, musty work that required little thought, but only a persistent plodding and a patient holding of my end of the clue. 
                     In all these weeks I had nothing from Bessie save that first cruel envelope. Letter after letter went to her, but no response came. I wrote to Mrs. Sloman too, but no answer. Then I bethought me of Judge Hubbard, but received in reply a note from one of his sons, stating that his father was in Florida-that he had communicated with him, but regretted that he was unable to give me Miss Stewart's present address. 
                     Why did I not seek Fanny Meyrick? She must have come to London long since, and surely the girls were in correspondence. I was too proud. She knew of our relations: Bessie had told her. I could not bring myself to reveal to her how tangled and gloomy a mystery was between us. I could explain nothing without letting her see that she was the unconscious cause. 
                     At last, when one wretched week after another had gone by, and we were in the new year, I could bear it no longer. "Come what will, I must know if Bessie writes to her." 
                     I went to Clarges street. My card was carried into the Meyricks' parlor, and I followed close upon it. Fanny was sitting alone, reading by a table. She looked up in surprise as I stood in the doorway. A little coldly, I thought, she came forward to meet me, but her manner changed as she took my hand. 
                     "I was going to scold you, Charlie, for avoiding us, for staying away so long, but that is accounted for now. Why didn't you send us word that you were ill? Papa is a capital nurse." 
                     "But I have not been ill," I said, bewildered, "only very busy and very anxious." 
                      
                     "I should think so," still holding my hand, and looking into my face with an expression of deep concern. "Poor fellow! You do look worn. Come right here to this chair by the fire, and let me take care of you. You need rest." 
                     And she rang the bell. I suffered myself to be installed in the soft crimson chair by the fire. It was such a comfort to hear a friendly voice after all those lonely weeks! When the servant entered with a tray, I watched her movements over the tea-cups with a delicious sense of the womanly presence and the home-feeling stealing over me. 
                     "I can't imagine what keeps papa," she said, chatting away with woman's tact: "he always smokes after dinner, and comes up to me for his cup of tea afterward." 
                     Then, as she handed me a tiny porcelain cup, steaming and fragrant, "I should never have congratulated you, Charlie, on board the steamer if I had known it was going to end in this way." 
                     
                        This way! Then Bessie must have told her. 
                     "End?" I said stammering: "what-what end?" 
                     "In wearing you out. Bessie told me at Lenox, the day we took that long walk, that you had this important case, and it was a great thing for a young lawyer to have such responsibility." 
                     Poor little porcelain cup! It fell in fragments on the floor as I jumped to my feet: "Was that all she told you? Didn't she tell you that we were engaged?" 
                     For a moment Fanny did not speak. The scarlet glow on her cheek, the steady glow that was always there, died away suddenly and left her pale as ashes. Mechanically she opened and shut the silver sugar-tongs that lay on the table under her hand, and her eyes were fixed on me with a wild, beseeching expression. 
                     "Did you not know," I said in softer tones, still standing by the table and looking down on her, "that day at Lenox that we were engaged? Was it not for that you congratulated me on board the steamer?" 
                     A deep-drawn sigh as she whispered, "Indeed, no! Oh dear! what have I done?" 
                     "You?-nothing!" I said with a sickly smile; "but there is some mistake, some mystery. I have never had one line from Bessie since I reached London, and when I left her she was my own darling little wife that was to be." 
                     Still Fanny sat pale as ashes, looking into the fire and muttering to herself. "Heavens! To think- Oh, Charlie," with a sudden burst, "it's all my doing! How can I ever tell you?" 
                     "You hear from Bessie, then? Is she-is she well? Where is she? What is all this?" And I seated myself again and tried to speak calmly, for I saw that something very painful was to be said-something that she could hardly say; and I wanted to help her, though how I knew not. 
                     At this moment the door opened and "papa" came in. He evidently saw that he had entered upon a scene as his quick eye took in the situation, but whether I was accepted or rejected as the future son-in-law even his penetration was at fault to discover. 
                     "Oh, papa," said Fanny, rising with evident relief, "just come and talk to Mr. Munro while I get him a package he wants to take with him." 
                     It took a long time to prepare that package. Mr. Meyrick, a cool, shrewd man of the world, was taking a mental inventory of me, I felt all the time. I was conscious that I talked incoherently and like a school-boy of the treaty. Every American in London was bound to have his special opinion thereupon, and Meyrick, I found, was of the English party. Then we discussed the special business which had brought me to England. 
                     "A very unpresentable son-in-law," I read in his eye, while he was evidently astonished at his daughter's prolonged absence. 
                     Our talk flagged and the fire grew gray in its flaky ashes before Fanny again appeared. 
                     "I know, papa, you think me very rude to keep Mr. Munro so long waiting, but there were some special directions to go with the packet, and it took me a long time to get them right. It is for Bessie, papa-Bessie Stewart, Mr. Munro's dear little fiance." 
                     Escaping as quickly as possible from Mr. Meyrick's neatly turned felicitations-and that the satisfaction he expressed was genuine I was prepared to believe-I hurried home to Sackville street. 
                     My bedroom was always smothering in its effect on me-close draperies to the windows, heavy curtains around the bed-and I closed the door and lighted my candle with a sinking heart. 
                     The packet was simply a long letter, folded thickly in several wrappers and tied with a string. The letter opened abruptly: 
                     "What I am going to do I am sure no woman on earth ever did before me, nor would I save to undo the trouble I have most innocently made. What must you have thought of me that day at Lenox, staying close all day to two engaged people, who must have wished me away a thousand times? But I did not dream you were engaged. 
                     "Remember, I had just come over from Saratoga, and knew nothing of Lenox gossip, then or afterward. Something in your manner once or twice made me look at you and think that perhaps you were interested in Bessie, but hers to you was so cold, so distant, that I thought it was only a notion of my jealous self. 
                     "Was I foolish to lay so much stress on that anniversary time? Do you know that the year before we had spent it together, too?-September 28th. True, that year it was at Bertie Cox's funeral, but we had walked together, and I was happy in being near you. 
                     "For, you see, it was from something more than the Hudson River that you had brought me out. You had rescued me from the stupid gayety of my first winter from the flats of fashionable life. You had given me an ideal-something to live up to and grow worthy of. 
                     "Let that pass. For myself, it is nothing, but for the deeper harm I have done, I fear, to Bessie and to you. 
                     "Again, on that day at Lenox, when Bessie and I drove together in the afternoon, I tried to make her talk about you, to find out what you were to her. But she was so distant, so repellant, that I fancied there was nothing at all between you; or, rather, if you had cared for her at all, that she had been indifferent to you. 
                     "Indeed, she quite forbade the subject by her manner; and when she told me you were going abroad, I could not help being very happy, for I thought then that I should have you all to myself. 
                     "When I saw you on shipboard, I fancied, somehow, that you had changed your passage to be with us. It was very foolish; and I write it, thankful that you are not here to see me. So I scribbled a little note to Bessie, and sent it off by the pilot: I don't know where you were when the pilot went. This is, as nearly as I remember it, what I wrote: 
                     "DEAR BESSIE: Charlie Munro is on board. He must have changed his passage to be with us. I know from something that he has just told me that this is so, and that he consoles himself already for your coldness. You remember what I told you when we talked about him. I shall try now. F. M.' 
                     "Bessie would know what that meant. Oh, must I tell you what a weak, weak girl I was? When I found out at Lenox, as I thought, that Bessie did not care for you, I said to her that once I thought you had cared for me, but that papa had offended you by his manner-you weren't of an old Knickerbocker family, you know-and had given you to understand that your visits were not acceptable. 
                     "I am sure now that it was because I wanted to think so that I put that explanation upon your ceasing to visit me, and because papa always looked so decidedly queer whenever your name was mentioned. 
                     "I had always had everything in life that I wanted, and I believed that in due time you would come back to me. 
                     "Bessie knew well enough what that pilot-letter meant, for here is her answer." 
                     Pinned fast to the end of Fanny's letter, so that by no chance should I read it first, were these words in my darling's hand: 
                     "Got your pilot-letter. Aunt is much better. We shall be traveling about so much that you need not write me the progress of your romance, but believe me I shall be most interested in its conclusion. BESSIE S." 
                     It was all explained now. My darling, so sensitive and spirited, had given her leave "to try." 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER IX. 
                     BUT was that all? Was she wearing away the slow months in passionate unbelief of me? I could not tell. But before I slept that night I had taken my resolve. I would sail for home by the next steamer. The case would suffer, perhaps, by the delay and the change of hands: D- must come out to attend to it himself, then, but I would suffer no longer. 
                     No use to write to Bessie. I had exhausted every means to reach her save that of the detectives. "I'll go to the office, file my papers till the next man comes over, see Fanny Meyrick, and be off." 
                     But what to say to Fanny? Good, generous girl! She had indeed done what few women in the world would have had the courage to do-shown her whole heart to a man who loved another. It would be an embarrassing interview; and I was not sorry when I started out that morning that it was too early yet to call. 
                     To the office first, then, I directed my steps. But here Fate lay perdu and in wait for me. 
                     "A letter, Mr. Munro, from D- & Co.," said the brisk young clerk. They had treated me with great respect of late, for, indeed, our claim was steadily growing in weight, and was sure to come right before long. I opened and read: 
                     "The missing paper is found on this side of the Atlantic-what you have been rummaging for all winter on the other. A trusty messenger sails at once, and will report himself to you." 
                     "At once!" Well, there's only a few days' delay, at most. Perhaps it's young Bunker. He can take the case and end it: anybody can end it now. 
                     And my heart was light. "A few days," I said to myself as I ran up the steps in Clarges street. 
                     "Miss Fanny at home?" to the man, or rather to the member of Parliament, who opened the door-"Miss Meyrick, I mean." 
                     "Yes, sir-in the drawing-room, sir;" and he announced me with a flourish. 
                     Fanny sat in the window. She might have been looking out for me, for on my entrance she parted the crimson curtains and came forward. 
                     Again the clear glow in her cheek, the self-possessed Fanny of old. 
                     "Charlie," she began impetuously, "I have been thinking over shipboard and Father Shamrock, and all. You didn't think then-did you?-that I cared so very much for you? I am so glad that the Father bewitched me as he did, for I can remember no foolishness on my part to you, sir-none at all. Can you?" 
                     Stammering, confused, I seemed to have lost my tongue and my head together. I had expected tears, pale cheeks, a burst of self-reproach, and that I should have to comfort and be very gentle and sympathetic. I had dreaded the rle, but here was a new turn of affairs; and, I own it, my self-love was not a little wounded. The play was played out, that was evident. The curtain had fallen, and here was I, a late-arrived hero of romance, the chivalric elder brother, with all my little stock of property-phrases-friendship of a life, esteem, etc.-of no more account than a week-old playbill. 
                     For, I must confess it, I had rehearsed some little forgiveness scene, in which I should magnanimously kiss her hand, and tell her that I should honor her above all women for her courage and her truth; and in which she would cry until her poor little heart was soothed and calmed; and that I should have the sweet consciousness of being beloved, however hopelessly, by such a brilliant, ardent soul. 
                     But Mistress Fanny had quietly turned the tables on me, and I believe I was angry enough for the moment to wish it had not been so. 
                     But only for a moment. It began to dawn upon me soon, the rare tact which had made easy the most embarrassing situation in the world-the bravura style, if I may call it so, that had carried us over such a difficult bar. 
                     It was delicacy, this careless reminder of the fascinating Father, and perhaps there was a modicum of truth in that acknowledgment too. 
                     I took my leave of Fanny Meyrick, and walked home a wiser man. 
                     But the trusty messenger, who arrived three days later, was not, as I had hoped, young Bunker or young Anybody. It was simply Mrs. D-, with a large traveling party. They came straight to London, and summoned me at once to the Langham Hotel. 
                     I suppose I looked somewhat amazed at sight of the portly lady, whom I had last seen driving round Central Park. But the twin Skye terriers who tumbled in after her assured me of her identity soon enough. 
                     "Mr. D-- charged me, Mr. Munro," she began after our first ceremonious greeting, "to give this into no hands but yours. I have kept it securely with my diamonds, and those I always carry about me." 
                     From what well-stitched diamond receptacle she had extracted the paper I did not suffer myself to conjecture, but the document was strongly perfumed with violet powder. 
                     "You see, I was coming over," she proceeded to explain, "in any event, and when Mr. D-- talked of sending Bunker-I think it was Bunker-with us, I persuaded him to let me be messenger instead. It wasn't worth while, you know, to have any more people leave the office, you being away, and-Oh, Ada, my dear, here is Mr. Munro!" 
                     As Ada, a slim, willowy creature, with the surprised look in her eyes that has become the fashion of late, came gliding up to me, I thought that the reason for young Bunker's omission from the party was possibly before me. 
                     Bother on her matrimonial, or rather anti-matrimonial, devices! Her maternal solicitude lest Ada should be charmed with the poor young clerk on the passage over had cost me weeks of longer stay. For at this stage a request for any further transfer would have been ridiculous and wrong. As easy to settle it now as to arrange for any one else; so the first of April found me still in London, but leaving it on the morrow for home. 
                     "Bessie is in Lenox, I think," Fanny Meyrick had said to me as I bade her good-bye. 
                     "What! You have heard from her?" 
                     "No, but I heard incidentally from one of my Boston friends this morning that he had seen her there, standing on the church steps." 
                     I winced, and a deeper glow came into Fanny's cheek. 
                     "You will give her my letter? I would have written to her also, but it was indeed only this morning that I heard. You will give her that?" 
                     "I have kept it for her," I said quietly; and the adieus were over. 
                   
                
                
                   
                  PART III. 
                   
                     CHAPTER X. 
                     LENOX again, and bluebirds darting to and fro among the maples. I had reached the hotel at midnight. Our train was late, detained on the road, and though my thoughts drove instantly to the Sloman cottage, I allowed the tardier coach-horses to set me down at the hotel. I had not telegraphed from New York. I would give her no chance to withhold herself from me, or to avoid me by running away. There was no time for her, as yet, to have read of the ship's arrival. I would take her unawares. 
                     So, after the bountiful Nora, who presides over the comfort of her favorites, had plied me with breakfast-cakes and milk and honey, I sauntered down toward the Lebanon road. Yes, sauntered, for I felt that a great crisis in my life was at hand, and at such times a wonderful calmness, almost to lethargy, possesses me. I went slowly up the hill. The church-clock was striking nine-calm, peaceful strokes. There was no tremor in them, no warning of what was coming. The air was very still, and I stopped a moment to watch the bluebirds before I turned into the Lebanon road. 
                     There was the little gray cottage, with its last year's vines about it, a withered spray here and there waving feebly as the soft April air caught it and tossed it to and fro. No sign of life about the cottage-doors and windows tight shut and barred. Only the little gate swung open, but that might have been the wind. I stepped up on the porch. No sound save the echo of my steps and the knocking of my heart. I rang the bell. It pealed violently, but there were no answering sounds: nothing stirred. 
                     I rang again, more gently, and waited, looking along the little path to the gate. There was snow, the winter's snow, lingering about the roots of the old elm, the one elm tree that overhung the cottage. Last winter's snow lying there, and of the people who had lived in the house, and made it warm and bright, not a footprint, not a trace! 
                     Again I rang, and this time I heard footsteps coming round the corner of the house. I sat down on the rustic bench by the door. If it had been Bessie's self, I could not have stirred, I was so chilled, so awed by the blank silence. A brown sun-bonnet, surmounting a tall, gaunt figure, came in sight. 
                     "What is it?" asked the owner of the sun-bonnet in a quick, sharp voice that seemed the prelude to "Don't want any." 
                     "Where are Mrs. Sloman and Miss Stewart? Are they not in Lenox?" 
                     "Miss' Sloman, she's away to Minnarsoter: ben thar' all winter for her health. She don't cal'late to be home afore June." 
                     "And Miss Stewart?-is she with her?" 
                     "Miss Stewart? I dunno," said the woman, with a strange look about the corners of her mouth. "I dunno: I never see her; and the family was all away afore I came here to take charge. They left the kitchen-end open for me; and my sister-in-law-that's Hiram Splinter's wife-she made all the 'rangements. But I did hear," hesitating a moment, "as how Bessie Stewart was away to Shaker Village; and some does say"-a portentous pause and clearing of her throat-"that she's jined." 
                     "Joined- what?" I asked, all in a mist of impatience and perplexity. 
                     "Jined the Shakers." 
                     "Nonsense!" I said, recovering my breath angrily. "Where is this Hiram's wife? Let me see her." 
                     "In the back lot-there where you see the yaller house where the chimney's smoking. That's Hiram's house. He has charge of the Gold property on the hill. Won't you come in and warm yourself by the fire in the kitchen? I was away to the next neighbor's, and I was sure I hear our bell a-ringin'. Did you hev' to ring long?" 
                     But I was away, striding over the cabbage-patch and climbing the worm-fence that shut in the estate of Hiram. Some wretched mistake: the woman does not know what she's talking about. These Splinters! they seem to have had some communication with Mrs. Sloman: they will know. 
                     Mrs. Splinter, a neat, bright-eyed woman of about twenty-five, opened the door at my somewhat peremptory knock. I recollected her in a moment as a familiar face-some laundress or auxiliary of the Sloman family in some way; and she seemed to recognize me as well: "Why! it's Mr. Munro! Walk in, sir, and sit down," dusting off a chair with her apron as she spoke. 
                     "Miss Stewart-where is she? You know." 
                     "Miss Stewart?" said the woman, sinking down into a chair and looking greatly disturbed. "Miss Stewart's gone to live with the Shakers. My husband drove her over with his team-her and her trunk." 
                     "Why, where was her aunt? Did Mrs. Sloman know? Why isn't Miss Bessie with her?" 
                     "Miss Sloman said all she could-afterward, I guess," said the woman, wiping her eyes, "but 'twan't no use then. You see, Miss' Sloman had jined a party that was goin' to Minnesota-while she was in Philadelfy, that was-and Miss Stewart she wasn't goin'. She reckoned she'd spend the winter here in the house. Miss' Sloman's maid-that's Mary-was goin' with her to the West, and I was to hire my sister-in-law to take charge of things here, so that Miss Bessie could have her mind free-like to come and go. But afore ever Mary Jane-that's my sister-in-law-could come over from Lee, where she was livin' out, Miss Bessie comes up and opens the house. She stayed there about a week, and she had lots of company while she was here. I think she got tired. They was people that was just goin' to sail for Europe, and as soon as they went she just shut up and told me to send for Mary Jane to take care of things. So Mary Jane never see her, and perhaps she giv' you a crooked answer, sir, if you was inquirin' of her over to the cottage." 
                     "Where's Hiram? where's your husband? Can I have his team this morning?" 
                     "I guess so," said the sympathetic Mrs. Splinter. "He'll show you the very house he druv' her to." 
                     Hiram was hunted for and found; and an hour later I was bowling along the Lebanon road behind the bay team he was so proud of. I had concluded to take him with me, as he could identify places and people, and I knew well what castles the Shaker houses are for the world's people outside. Hiram was full of talk going over. He seemed to have been bottling it up, and I was the first auditor for his wrath. "I know 'm," he said, cracking his whip over his horses' heads. "They be sharp at a bargain, they be. Ef they've contrived to get a hold on Bessie Stewart, property and all, it'll go hard on 'em to give her up." 
                     "A hold on Bessie!" What dreadful words! I bade him sharply hold his tongue and mind his horses, but he went on muttering in an undertone, "Yo'll see, yo'll see! You're druv' pretty hard, young man, I expect, so I won't think nothing of your ha'sh words, and we'll get her out, for all Elder Nebson." 
                     So Hiram looked out along the road from under his huge fur-cap, and up hill and down. The miles shortened, until at last the fair houses and barns of the Shaker village came in sight. A sleeping village, one would have thought. Nobody in the road save one old man, who eyed us suspiciously through the back of a chair he was carrying. 
                     "It must be dinner-time, I think," said Hiram as he drove cautiously along. Stopping at a house near the bridge: "Now this is the very house. Just you go right up and knock at that 'ere door." 
                     I knocked. In a twinkling the door was opened by a neat Shaker sister, whose round, smiling face was flushed, as though she had just come from cooking dinner. I stepped across the threshold: "Bessie Stewart is here. Please say to her that a friend-a friend from England-wishes to see her." 
                     "Sure," said the motherly-faced woman, for she was sweet and motherly in spite of her Shaker garb, "I'll go and see." 
                     Smilingly she ushered me into a room at the left of the hall. "Take seat, please;" and with a cheerful alacrity she departed, closing the door gently behind her. 
                     "Well," thought I, "this is pleasant: no bolts or bars here. I'm sure of one friend at court." 
                     I had leisure to observe the apartment-the neatly-scrubbed floor, with one narrow cot bed against the wall, a tall bureau on which some brown old books were lying, and the little dust-pan and dust-brush on a brass nail in the corner. There was a brightly polished stove with no fire in it, and some straight-backed chairs of yellow wood stood round the room. An open door into a large, roomy closet showed various garments of men's apparel hanging upon the wall. The plain thermometer in the window casement seemed the one article of luxury or ornament in the apartment. I believe I made my observations on all these things aloud, concluding with, "Oh, Bessie! Bessie! you shall not stay here." I know that I was startled enough by the apparition of a man standing in the open closet door. He must have been within it at my entrance, and had heard all I said. 
                     He came forward, holding out his hand-very friendly apparently. Then, requesting me to be seated, he drew out a chair from the wall and sat down, tilting it back on two legs and leaning against the wall, with his hands folded before him. Some commonplace remark about the weather, which I answered, led to a rambling conversation, in which he expressed the greatest curiosity as to worldly matters, and asked several purely local questions about the city of New York. Perhaps his ignorance was feigned. I do not know, but I found myself relating,  la Stanley-Livingstone, some of the current events of the day. His face was quite intelligent, tanned with labor in the fields, and his brown eyes were kind and soft, like those of some dumb animals. I note his eyes here especially, as different in expression from those of others of his sect. 
                     Several times during the conversation I heard footsteps in the hall, and darted from my seat, and finally, in my impatience, began to pace the floor. Kindly as he looked, I did not wish to question the man about Bessie. I would rely upon the beaming portress, whose "Sure" was such an earnest of her good-will. Moreover, a feeling of contempt, growing out of pity, was taking possession of me. This man, in what did he differ from the Catholic priest save in the utter selfishness of his creed? Beside the sordid accumulation of gain to which his life was devoted the priest's mission among crowded alleys and fever-stricken lanes seemed luminous and grand. A moral suicide, with no redeeming feature. The barns bursting with fatness, the comfortable houses, gain added to gain-to what end? I was beginning to give very short answers indeed to his questions, and was already meditating a foray through the rest of the house, when the door opened slowly and a lady-abbess entered. She was stiff and stately, with the most formal neckerchief folded precisely over her straitened bust, a clear-muslin cap concealing her hair, and her face, stony, blue-eyed and cold-a pale, frozen woman standing stately there. 
                     "Bessie Stewart?" said I. "She is here-I know it. Do not detain her. I must see her. Why all this delay?" 
                     "Dost thou mean Sister Eliza?" she asked in chilling tones. 
                     "No, nobody's sister-least of all a sister here-but the young lady who came over here from Lenox two months ago-Bessie Stewart, Mrs. Sloman's niece." (I knew that Mrs. Sloman was quite familiar with some of the Shakeresses, and visited them at times.) 
                      
                     Very composedly the sister took a chair and folded her hands across her outspread handkerchief before she spoke again. I noticed at this moment that her dress was just the color of her eyes, a pale, stony blue. 
                     "Sister Eliza: it is the same," in measured accents. "She is not here: she has gone-to Watervliet." 
                     Can this be treachery? I thought, and is she still in the house? Will they hide from her that I am here? But there was no fathoming the woman's cold blue eyes. 
                     "To Watervliet?" I inquired dismally. "How? when? how did she go?" 
                     "She went in one of our wagons: Sister Leah and Brother Ephraim went along." 
                     "When will they return?" 
                     "I cannot say." 
                     All this time the man was leaning back against the wall, but uttered not a word. A glance of triumph shot from the sister's eyes as I rose. But she was mistaken if she thought I was going away. I stepped to the window, and throwing it open called to Hiram, who was still sitting in his wagon, chewing composedly a bit of straw. He leaped out in an instant, and leaning out to him I rapidly repeated in an undertone the previous conversation: "What would you do?" 
                     "Ten chances to one it's a lie. Tell 'em you'll set there till you see her. They can't shake us off that way." 
                     I drew in my head. The pair still sat as before. "Well," said I, "as I must see her, and as you seem so uncertain about it, I will wait here." 
                     And again I took my seat. The sister's face flushed. I had meant no rudeness in my tone, but she must have detected the suspicion in it. She crimsoned to her temples, and said hastily, "It is impossible for us to entertain strangers to-day. A brother is dying in the house: we are all waiting for him to pass away from moment to moment. We can submit to no intrusion." 
                     Well, perhaps it was an intrusion. It was certainly their house if it did hold my darling. I looked at her steadily: "Are you sure that Bessie Stewart has gone away from here?" 
                     "To Watervliet-yea," she answered composedly. "She left here last week." 
                     My skill at cross-examination was at fault. If that woman was lying, she would be a premium witness. "I should be sorry, madam," I said, recalling the world's etiquette, which I had half forgotten, "to intrude upon you at this or any other time, but I cannot leave here in doubt. Will you oblige me by stating the exact hour and day at which Miss Stewart is expected to return from Watervliet, and the road thither?" 
                     She glanced across the room. Answering the look, the man spoke, for the first time since she had entered: "The party, I believe, will be home to-night." 
                     "And she with them?" 
                     "Yea, unless she has elected to remain." 
                     "At what hour?" 
                     "I cannot tell." 
                     "By what road shall I meet her?" 
                     "There are two roads: we generally use the river-road." 
                     "To-night? I will go to meet her. By the river-road, you say?" 
                     "Yea." 
                     "And if I do not meet her?" 
                     "If thou dost not meet her," said the lady-abbess, answering calmly, "it will be because she is detained on the road." 
                     I had to believe her, and yet I was very skeptical. As I walked out of the door the man was at my heels. He followed me out on to the wooden stoop and nodded to Hiram. 
                     "Who is that, Hiram?" I whispered as he leaned across the back of a horse, adjusting some leathern buckle. 
                     "That?" said Hiram under his breath. "That's a deep 'un: that's Elder Nebson." 
                     Great was the dissatisfaction of the stout-hearted Splinter at my retreat, as he called it, from the enemy's ground. 
                     "I'd ha' liked nothin' better than to beat up them quarters. I thought every minit' you'd be calling me, and was ready to go in." And he clenched his fist in a way that showed unmistakably how he would have "gone in" had he been summoned. By this time we were driving on briskly toward the river-road. "You wa'n't smart, I reckon, to leave that there house. It was your one chance, hevin' got in. Ten chances to one she's hid away som'eres in one of them upper rooms," and he pointed to a row of dormer-windows, "not knowin' nothin' of your bein' there." 
                     "Stop!" I said with one foot on the shafts. "You don't mean to say she is shut up there?" 
                     "Shet up? No: they be too smart for that. But there's plenty ways to shet a young gal's eyes an' ears 'thout lockin' of her up. How'd she know who was in this wagon, even if she seed it from her winders? To be sure, I made myself conspicuous enough, a-whistlin' 'Tramp, tramp,' and makin' the horses switch round a good deal. But, like enough, ef she'd be down-spereted-like, she'd never go near the winder, but just set there, a-stitchin' beads on velvet or a-plattin' them mats." 
                     "Why should she work?" I asked, with my grasp still on the reins. 
                     "Them all does," he answered, taking a fresh bite of the straw. "It's the best cure for sorrow, they say. Or mebbe she's a-teachin' the children. I see a powerful sight of children comin' along while you was in there talkin', a-goin' to their school, and I tried to ask some o' them about her. But the old sheep who was drivin' on 'em looked at me like vinegar, and I thought I'd better shet up, or mebbe she'd give the alarm that we was here with horses and wagon to carry her off." 
                     I had a painful moment of indecision as Hiram paused in his narrative and leisurely proceeded to evict a fly from the near horse's ear. "I think we'll go on, Hiram," I said, jumping back to my seat again. "Take the river-road." 
                     Hiram had brought plentiful provision for his horses in a bag under the seat. "Victualed for a march or a siege," he said as he dragged out a tin kettle from the same receptacle when we drew up by the roadside an hour after. "We're clear of them pryin' Shakers, and we'll just rest a spell." 
                     I could not demur, though my impatience was urging me on faster than his hungry horses could go. 
                     "I told Susan," he said, "to put me up a bit of pie and cheese-mebbe we wouldn't be back afore night. Won't you hev' some?-there's a plenty." 
                     But I declined the luncheon, and while he munched away contentedly, and while the horses crunched their corn, I got out and walked on, telling Hiram to follow at his leisure. My heart beat fast as I espied a wagon in the distance with one-yes, two-Shaker bonnets in it. Bessie in masquerade! Perhaps so-it could not be the other; that would be too horrible. But she was coming, surely coming, and the cold prim sister had told the truth, after all. 
                     The wagon came nearer. In it were two weather-beaten dames, neither of whom could possibly be mistaken for Bessie in disguise; and the lank, long-haired brother who was driving them looked ignorant as a child of anything save the management of his horses. I hailed them, and the wagon drew up at the side of the road. 
                     It was the women who answered in shrill, piping voices: "Ben to Watervliet? Nay, they'd ben driving round the country, selling garden seeds." 
                     "Did they know Bessie Stewart, who was staying in the Shaker village, in the house by the bridge?" 
                     "Sure, there had ben a stranger woman come there some time ago: they could not tell-never heerd her name." 
                     I was forced to let them drive on after I had exhausted every possible inquiry, trusting that Hiram, who was close behind, would have keener wit in questioning them, but Hiram, as it happened, did not come up to them at all. They must have turned off into some farmhouse lane before they passed him. The afternoon wore on. It grew toward sunset, and still we kept the river-road. There was no trace of the Shaker wagon, and indeed the road was growing wild and lonely. 
                     "I tell you what," said Hiram, stopping suddenly, "these beasts can't go on for ever, and then turn round and come back again. I'll turn here, and drive to the little tavern we passed about two mile back, and stable 'em, and then you and me can watch the road." 
                     It was but reasonable, and I had to assent, though to turn back seemed an evil omen, and to carry me away from Bessie. The horses were stabled, and I meanwhile paced the broad open sweep in front of the tavern, across which the lights were shining. Hiram improved the opportunity to eat a hearty supper, urging me to partake. But as I declined, in my impatience, to take my eyes off the road, he brought me out a bowl of some hot fluid and something on a plate, which I got through with quickly enough, for the cool evening air had sharpened my appetite. I rested the bowl on the broad bench beside the door, while Hiram went backward and forward with the supplies. 
                     "Now," said he as I finished at last, still keeping my eye upon the road, "you go in and take a turn lyin' down: I'll watch the road. I'm a-goin' to see this thing out." 
                     But I was not ready to sleep yet; so, yielding to my injunction, he went in, and I seated myself, wrapped in a buffalo robe from the wagon. The night was damp and chill. 
                     "Hedn't you better set at the window?" said the kind-hearted landlady, bustling out. Hiram had evidently told her the story. 
                     "Oh no, thank you;" for I was impatient of walls and tongues, and wanted to be alone with my anxiety. 
                     What madness was this in Bessie? She could not, oh she could not, have thrown her life away! What grief and disquiet must have driven her into this refuge! Poor little soul, scorched and racked by distrust and doubt! if she could not trust me, whom should she trust? 
                     The household noises ceased one by one; the clump of willows by the river grew darker and darker; the stars came out and shone with that magnetic brilliancy that fixes our gaze upon them, leading one to speculate on their influence, and- 
                     A hand on my shoulder: Hiram with a lantern turned full upon my face. "'Most one o'clock," he said, rubbing his eyes sleepily. "Come to take my turn. Have you seen nothing?" 
                     "Nothing," I said, staggering to my feet, which felt like lead-"nothing." 
                     I did not confess it, but to this hour I cannot tell whether I had been nodding for one minute or ten. I kept my own counsel as I turned over the watch to Hiram, but a suspicion shot through me that perhaps that wagon had gone by, after all, in the moment that I had been off guard. 
                     Hiram kept the watch faithfully till five that morning, when I too was stirring. One or two teams had passed, but no Shaker wagon rattling through the night. We breakfasted in the little room that overlooked the road. Outside, at the pump, a lounging hostler, who had been bribed to keep a sharp lookout for a Shaker wagon, whistled and waited to. 
                     "Tell you what," said Hiram, bolting a goodly rouleau of ham and eggs, "I've got an idee. You and me might shilly-shally here on this road all day, and what surety shall we hev' that they hevn't gone by the other road. Old gal said there was two?" 
                     "Yes, but the folks here say that the other is a wild mountain-road, and not much used." 
                     "Well, you see they comes down by the boat a piece, or they may cut across the river at Greenbush. They have queer ways. Now, mebbe they have come over that mountain-road in the night, while you and me was a-watchin' this like ferrits. In that case she's safe and sound at Shaker Village, not knowin' anything of your coming; and Elder Nebson and that other is laughin' in their sleeves at us." 
                     "Perhaps so." 
                     "Now, this is my advice, but I'll do just as you say. 'Tain't no good to lay around and watch that ere house to-day. Ef we hedn't been in such a white heat, we might just hev' hid round in the neighborhood there till she came along. But it's too late for that now. Let's you and me lay low till Sunday. She'll be sure to go to meetin' on Sunday ef she's there, and you can quietly slip in and see if she is. And to shut their eyes up, so that they won't suspect nothin', we'll leave a message on one of your pasteboards that you're very sorry not to hev' seen her, drefful sorry, but that you can't wait no longer, and you are off. They'll think you're off for York: you've got York on your cards, hevn't you?" 
                     "Yes." 
                     "You just come and stay to my house: we'll make you comfortable, and there's only one day longer to wait. This is Friday, be'ent it? You'd best not be seen around to the hotel, lest any of their spies be about. They do a powerful sight o' drivin' round the country this time o' year. And then, you see, ef on Sunday she isn't there, you can go over to Watervliet, or we'll search them houses-whichever you choose." 
                     There seemed no help for it but to take Hiram's advice. We drove homeward through the Shaker village, and drew up at the house again. This time the door was opened by a bent, sharp little Creole, as I took her to be: the beaming portress of the day before had been relieved at her post. 
                     "Nay, Bessie Stewart was not at home: she would go and inquire for me when she was expected." 
                     "No," I said carelessly, not wishing to repeat the scene of yesterday and to present myself, a humiliated failure, before the two elders again-"no: give her this card when she does come, and tell her I could stay no longer." 
                     I had not written any message on the card, for the message, indeed, was not for Bessie, but for the others. She would interpret it that I was in the neighborhood, anxious and waiting: she would understand. 
                     "Home, then, Hiram," as I took my seat beside him. "We'll wait till Sunday." 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER XI. 
                     "YOU'D better eat sum'thin'," said Hiram over the breakfast-table on Sunday morning. "Got a good long drive afore you, and mebbe a good day's work besides. No? Well, then, Susan, you put the apple-brandy into the basket, and some of them rusks, for I reckon we'll hev' work with this young man afore night." 
                     Susan, bless her good heart! wanted to go along, and as Hiram's excitement was evidently at the highest pitch, he consented that she should occupy the back seat of the wagon: "P'raps Miss Stewart'll feel more comfortable about leavin' when she sees there's a woman along." 
                     It was a rainy morning, and there were but few wagons on the road. Arrived at the village, we encountered one little procession after another of broad-brim straws and Shaker bonnets turning out of the several houses as we drove past. They stepped along quickly, and seemed to take no notice of us. 
                     "Reckon we're the only visitors today," whispered Hiram as he stopped at the horseblock in front of the meeting-house. "You know where you hev' to set-on the left-hand side; and Susan, she goes to the right." 
                     I followed Susan up the steps, and she hastened, as ordered, to the right, while I took my seat on one of the back benches of the left, against the wall. It was a barn-like structure, large, neat and exquisitely chill. Two large stoves on either side possibly had fire in them-an old man who looked like an ancient porter went to them from time to time and put on coal-but the very walls reflected a chill, blue glare. The roof was lofty and vaulted, and added to the hollow coldness of the hall. The whole apartment was clean to sanctity, and in its straitness and blank dreariness no unfit emblem of the faith it embodied. 
                     Around three sides of the hall, and facing the benches for visitors, the Shaker fraternity were ranged. The hats and straight straw bonnets hung decorously upon the wall over their heads: here and there a sky-blue shawl or one of faded lilac hung beneath the headgear. Across the wide apartment it was difficult to distinguish faces. I scanned closely the sisterhood-old, withered faces most of them, with here and there one young and blooming-but no Bessie as yet. Still, they were coming in continually through the side door; she might yet appear. I recognized my lady-abbess, who sat directly facing me, in a seat of state apparently, and close to her, on the brethren's side of the house, was Elder Nebson. 
                     The services began. All rose, and sisters and brethren faced each other and sang a hymn, with no accompaniment and no melody-a harsh chant in wild, barbaric measure. Then, after a prayer, they entered upon the peculiar method of their service. Round and round the room they trooped in two large circles, sister following sister, brother brother, keeping time with their hanging hands to the rhythm of the hymn. Clustered in the centre was a little knot of men and women, the high dignitaries, who seemed to lead the singing with their clapping hands. 
                     The circles passed each other and wove in and out, each preserving its unbroken continuity. I looked for Elder Nebson: could it be that he was joining in these gyrations? Yes, he was leading one of the lines. But I noticed that his hands moved mechanically, not with the spasmodic fervor of the rest, and that his eyes, instead of the dull, heavy stare of his fellows, sought with faithful yet shy constancy the women's ranks. And as the women filed past me, wringing their hands, I scrutinized each face and figure-the sweet-faced portress, the shrunken little creole ("A mulatto, she is," Hiram whispered-he had taken his seat beside me-"and very powerful, they say, among 'em"), and some fair young girls; two or three of these with blooming cheeks bursting frankly through the stiff bordering of their caps. But I saw not the face I sought. 
                     "Them children! Ain't it awful?" muttered Hiram as a file of blue-coat boys shambled past, with hair cut square across their foreheads and bleached white with the sun. "Ain't got a grain of sense! Look at 'em!-all crowded clean out by the Shaker schools." 
                     And surely they were a most unpromising little crowd. Waifs, snatched probably from some New York whirlpool of iniquity, and wearing the brute mark on their faces, which nothing in this school of their transplanting tended to erase-a sodden little party, like stupid young beasts of burden, uncouth and awkward. 
                     As the girls came round again, and I had settled it in my mind that there was certainly no Bessie in the room, I could watch them more calmly. Eagerly as I sought her face, it was a relief, surely, that it was not there. Pale to ghastliness, most of them, with high, sharpened shoulders, and features set like those of a corpse, it was indeed difficult to realize that these ascetic forms, these swaying devotees, were women-women who might else have been wives and mothers. Some of them wore in their hollow eyes an expression of ecstasy akin to madness, and there was not a face there that was not saintly pure. 
                     It was a strange union that assembled under one roof these nun-like creatures, wasted and worn with their rigid lives, and the heavy, brutish men, who shambled round the room like plough-horses. Wicked eyes some of them had, mere slits through which a cunning and selfish spirit looked out. Some faces there were of power, but in them the disagreeable traits were even more strongly marked: the ignorant, narrow foreheads were better, less responsible, it seemed. 
                     The singing ended, there was a sermon from a high priest who stood out imperious among his fellows. But this was not a sermon to the flock. It was aimed at the scanty audience of strangers with words of unblushing directness. How men and women may continue pure in the constant hearing and repetition of such revolting arguments and articles of faith is matter of serious question. The divine instincts of maternity the sweet attractions of human love, were thrown down and stamped under foot in the mud of this man's mind; and at each peroration, exhorting his hearers to shake off Satan, a strong convulsive shiver ran through the assembly. 
                     "Bessie is certainly not here: possibly she's still at Watervliet," I whispered to Hiram as the concluding hymn began. "But I'll have a chance at Elder Nebson and that woman before they leave the house." 
                     The rain had ceased for some time, and as again the wild chant went up from those harsh strained voices, a stray sunbeam, like a gleam of good promise, shot across the floor. But what was this little figure stealing in through a side-door and joining the circling throng?-a figure in lilac gown, with the stiff muslin cap and folded neckerchief. She entered at the farthest corner of the room, and I watched her approach with beating heart. Something in the easy step was familiar, and yet it could not be. She passed around with the rest in the inner circle, and, leaning forward, I held my breath lest indeed it might be she. 
                     The circle opened, and again the long line of march around the room. The lilac figure came nearer and nearer, and now I see her face. It is Bessie! 
                     With a cry I sprang up, but with a blow, a crash, a horrible darkness swept over me like a wave, and I knew nothing. 
                     When I came to myself I was lying on a bed in a room that was new to me. A strong light, as of the setting sun, shone upon the whitewashed wall. There was a little table, over which hung a looking-glass, surmounted by two fans of turkey feathers. I stared feebly at the fans for a while, and then closed my eyes again. 
                     Where was I? I had a faint remembrance of jolting in a wagon, and of pitying faces bent over me, but where was I now? Again I opened my eyes, and noted the gay patchwork covering of the bed, and the green paper curtain of the window in the golden wall-green, with a tall yellow flower-pot on it, with sprawling roses of blue and red. Turning with an effort toward the side whence all the brightness came, in a moment two warm arms were round my neck, and a face that I could not see was pressed close to mine. 
                     "Oh, Charlie, Charlie! forgive, forgive me for being so bad!" 
                     "Bessie," I answered dreamingly, and seemed to be drifting away again. But a strong odor of pungent salts made my head tingle again, and when I could open my eyes for the tears they rested on my darling's face-my own darling in a soft white dress, kneeling by my bedside, with both her arms round me. A vigorous patting of the pillow behind me revealed Mrs. Splinter, tearful too: "He's come to now. Don't bother him with talk, Miss Bessie. I'll fetch the tea." 
                     And with motherly 
                           insistance
                           insistence
                         she brought me a steaming bowl of beef-tea, while I still lay, holding Bessie's hand, with a feeble dawning that the vision was real. 
                     "No," she said as Bessie put out her arm for the bowl, "you prop up his head. I've got a steddyer hand: you'd just spill it all over his go-to-meetin' suit." 
                     I looked down at myself. I was still dressed in the clothes that I had worn-when was it? last week?-when I had started for the Shaker meeting. 
                     "How long?" I said feebly. 
                     "Only this morning, you darling boy, it all happened; and here we are, snug at Mrs. Splinter's, and Mary Jane is getting the cottage ready for us as fast as ever she can." 
                     How good that beef-tea was! Bessie knew well what would give it the sauce piquante. "Ready for us!" 
                     "Here's the doctor at last," said Hiram, putting his head in at the door. "Why, hillo! are we awake?" 
                     "The doctor! Dr. Wilder?" I said beamingly. How good of Bessie! how thoughtful! 
                     "Not Dr. Wilder, you dear old boy!" said Bessie, laughing and blushing, "though I sha'n't scold you, Charlie, for that!" in a whisper in my ear. "It's Dr. Bolster of Lee. Hiram has been riding all over the country for him this afternoon." 
                     "I'll go down to him," I said, preparing to rise. 
                     "No you won't;" and Mrs. Splinter's strong arm, as well as Bessie's soft hand, patted me down again. 
                     Dr. Bolster pronounced, as well he might, that all danger was over. The blow on my head-I must have struck it with force against the projecting window-shelf as I sprang up-was enough to have stunned me; but the doctor, I found, was inclined to theorize: "A sudden vertigo, a dizziness: the Shaker hymns and dances have that effect sometimes upon persons viewing them for the first time. Or perhaps the heat of the room." He calmly fingered my pulse for a few seconds, with his fat ticking watch in his other hand, and then retired to the bureau to write a prescription, which I was indignantly prepared to repudiate. But Bessie, in a delightful little pantomime, made signs to me to be patient: we could throw it all out of the window afterward if need be. 
                     "A soothing draught, and let him keep quiet for a day or so, will be all that is required. I will call to-morrow if you would prefer it." 
                     "We will send you a note, doctor, tomorrow morning: he seems so much stronger already that perhaps it will not be necessary to make you take such a long drive." 
                     "Yes, yes, I'm very busy. You send me word whether to come or not." 
                     And bustlingly the good doctor departed, with Mrs. Splinter majestically descending to hold whispered conference with him at the gate. 
                     "Charlie, I will send for Dr. Wilder if you are ready, for I'm never going to leave you another minute as long as we live." 
                     "I think," said I, laughing, "that I should like to stand up first on my feet; that is, if I have any feet." 
                     What a wonderful prop and support was Bessie! How skillfully she helped me to step once, twice, across the floor! and when I sank down, very tired, in the comfortable easy-chair by the window, she knelt on the floor beside me and bathed my forehead with fragrant cologne, that certainly did not come from Mrs. Splinter's tall bottle of lavender compound on the bureau. 
                     "Oh, my dear boy, I have so much to say! Where shall I begin?" 
                     "At the end," I said quietly. "Send for Dr. Wilder." 
                     "But don't you want to hear what a naughty girl-" 
                     "No, I want to hear nothing but 'I Elizabeth, take thee-'" 
                     "But I've been so very jealous, so suspicious and angry. Don't you want to hear how bad I am?" 
                     "No," I said, closing the discussion after an old fashion of the Sloman cottage, "not until we two walk together to the Ledge to-morrow, my little wife and I." 
                     "Where's a card-your card, Charlie? It would be more proper-like, as Mrs. Splinter would say, for you to write it." 
                     "I will try," I said, taking out a card-case from my breast-pocket. As I drew it forth my hand touched a package, Fanny Meyrick's packet. Shall I give it to her now? I hesitated. No, we'll be married first in the calm faith that each has in the other to-day, needing no outward assurance or written word. 
                     I penciled feebly, with a very shaky hand, my request that the doctor would call at Hiram Splinter's, at his earliest convenience that evening, to perform the ceremony of marriage between his young friend, Bessie Stewart, and the subscriber. Hiram's eldest son, a youth of eight, was swinging on the gate under our window. To him Bessie entrusted the card, with many injunctions to give it into no other hands than the doctor's own. 
                     In less time than we had anticipated, as we looked out of the window at the last pink glow of the sunset, the urchin reappeared, walking with great strides beside a spare little figure, whom we recognized as the worthy doctor himself. 
                     "Good gracious! he is in a hurry!" said Bessie, retiring hastily from the window; "and we have not said a word to Mrs. Splinter yet!" 
                     We had expected the little doctor would wait below until the bridal-party should descend; but no, he came directly up stairs, and walked into the room without prelude. He took Bessie in his arms with fatherly tenderness: "Ah, you runaway! so you've come back at last?" 
                     "Yes, doctor, and don't you let go of her until you have married her fast to me." 
                      
                     "Ahem!" said the doctor, clearing his throat, "that is just what I came to advise you about. Hiram told me this afternoon of the chase you two had had, and of your illness this morning. Now, as it is half over the village by this time that Bessie Stewart has been rescued from the Shaker village by a chivalrous young gentleman, and as everybody is wild with impatience to know the dnoment, I want, you to come down quietly to the church this evening and be married after evening service." 
                     "To please everybody?" I said, in no very pleasant humor. 
                     "I think it will be wisest, best; and I am sure this discreetest of women," still holding Bessie's hand, "will agree with me. You need not sit through the service. Hiram can bring you down after it has begun; and you may sit in the vestry till the clerk calls you. I'll preach a short sermon to-night," with a benignant chuckle. 
                     He had his will. Some feeling that it would please Mrs. Sloman best, the only person besides ourselves whom it concerned us to please, settled it in Bessie's mind, although she anxiously inquired several times before the doctor left if I felt equal to going to church. Suppose I should faint on the way? 
                     I was equal to it, for I took a long nap on the sofa in Mrs. Splinter's parlor through the soft spring twilight, while Bessie held what seemed to me interminable conferences with Mary Jane. 
                     It was not a brilliant ceremony so far as the groom was concerned. As we stood at the chancel-rail I am afraid that the congregation, largely augmented, by this time, by late-comers-for the doctor had spread the news through the village far and wide-thought me but a very pale and quiet bridegroom. 
                     But the bride's beauty made amends for all. Just the same soft white dress of the afternoon-or was it one like it?-with no ornaments, no bridal veil. I have always pitied men who have to plight their troth to a moving mass of lace and tulle, weighed down with orange-blossoms massive as lead. This was my own little wife as she would walk by my side through life, dressed as she might be the next day and always. 
                     But the next day it was the tartan cloak that she wore, by special request, as we climbed the hill to the Ledge. It was spring indeed-bluebirds in the air, and all the sky shone clear and warm. 
                     "Let me begin," said my wife as she took her old seat under the sheltering pine. "You can't have anything to say, Charlie, in comparison with me." 
                     There was a short preliminary pause, and then she began. 
                   
                   
                     CHAPTER XII. 
                     "WELL, after you wouldn't take me to Europe, you know-" 
                     "You naughty girl!" 
                     "No interruptions, sir. After you couldn't take me to Europe I felt very much hurt and wounded, and ready to catch at any straw of suspicion. I ran away from you that night and left you in the parlor, hoping that you would call me back, and yet longing to hide myself from you too. You understand?" 
                     "Yes, let us not dwell on that." 
                     "Well, I believe I never thought once of Fanny Meyrick's going to Europe too until she joined us on the road that day-you remember?-at the washerwoman's gate." 
                     "Yes; and do you remember how Fidget and I barked at her with all our hearts?" 
                     "I was piqued then at the air of ownership Fanny seemed to assume in you. She had just come to Lenox, I knew; she could know nothing of our intimacy, our relations; and this seemed like the renewal of something old-something that had been going on before. Had she any claim on you? I wondered. And then, too, you were so provokingly reticent about her whenever her name had been mentioned before." 
                     "Was I? What a fool I was! But, Bessie dear, I could not say to even you, then, that I believed Fanny Meyrick was in-cared a great deal for me." 
                     "I understand," said Bessie nodding. "We'll skip that, and take it for granted. But you see I couldn't take anything for granted but just what I saw that day; and the little memorandum-book and Fanny's reminiscences nearly killed me. I don't know how I sat through it all. I tried to avoid you all the rest of the day. I wanted to think, and to find out the truth from Fanny." 
                     "I should think you did avoid me pretty successfully, leaving me to dine coldly at the hotel, and then driving all the afternoon till train-time." 
                     "It was in talking to Fanny that afternoon that I discovered how she felt toward you. She has no concealment about her, not any, and I could read her heart plainly enough. But then she hinted at her father's treatment of you; thought he had discouraged you, rebuffed you, and reasoned so that I fairly thought there might be truth in it, remembering it was before you knew me." 
                     "Listen one minute, Bessie, till I explain that. It's my belief, and always was, that that shrewd old fellow, Henry Meyrick, saw very clearly how matters were all along-saw how the impetuous Miss Fanny was-" 
                     "Falling in love: don't pause for a 'more tenderer word,' Charlie. Sam Weller couldn't find any." 
                     "Well, falling in love, if you will say it-and that it was decidedly a difficult situation for me. I remember so well that night on the piazza, when Fanny clung about me like a mermaid, he bade her sharply go and change her dripping garments, and what Fanny calls 'a decidedly queer' expression came into his face. He could not say anything, poor old chap! and he always behaved with great courtesy to me. I am sure he divined that I was a most unimpassioned actor in that high-comedy plunge into the Hudson." 
                     "Very well: I believe it, I'm sure, but, you see, how could I know then what was or was not true? Then it was that I resolved to give you leave-or rather give her leave to try. I had written my note in the morning, saying no finally to the Europe plan, and I scrawled across it, in lead-pencil, while Fanny stood at her horse's head, those ugly words, you remember?" 
                     "Yes," I said: "'Go to Europe with Fanny Meyrick, and come up to Lenox, both of you, when you return.'" 
                     "Then, after that, my one idea was to get away from Lenox. The place was hateful to me, and you were writing those pathetic letters about being married, and state-rooms, and all. It only made me more wretched, for I thought you were the more urgent now that you had been lacking before. I hurried aunt off to Philadelphia, and in New York she hurried me. She would not wait, though I did want to, and I was so disappointed at the hotel! But I thought there was a fate in it to give Fanny Meyrick her chance, poor thing! and so I wrote that good-bye note without an address." 
                     "But I found you, for all, thanks to Dr. R--!" 
                     "Yes, and when you came that night I was so happy. I put away all fear: I had to remind myself, actually, all the time, of what I owed to Fanny, until you told me you had changed your passage to the Algeria, and that gave me strength to be angry. Oh, my dear, I'm afraid you'll have a very bad wife. Of course the minute you had sailed I began to be horribly jealous, and then I got a letter by the pilot that made me worse." 
                     "But," said I, "you got my letters from the other side. Didn't that assure you that you might have faith in me?" 
                     "But I would not receive them. Aunt Sloman has them all, done up and labeled for you, doubtless. She, it seems-had you talked her over?-thought I ought to have gone with you, and fretted because she was keeping me. Then I couldn't bear it another day. It was just after you had sailed, and I had cut out the ship-list to send you; and I had worked myself up to believe you would go back to Fanny Meyrick if you had the chance. I told Aunt Sloman that it was all over between us-that you might continue to write to me, but I begged that she would keep all your letters in a box until I should ask her for them." 
                     "But I wrote letters to her, too, asking what had become of you." 
                      
                     "She went to Minnesota, you know, early in February." 
                     "And why didn't you go with her?" 
                     "She scolded me dreadfully because I would not. But she was so well, and she had her maid and a pleasant party of Philadelphia friends; and I-well, I didn't want to put all those hundreds of miles between me and the sea." 
                     "And was Shaker Village so near, then, to the sea?" 
                     "Oh, Charlie," hiding her face on my shoulder, "that was cowardice in me. You know I meant to keep the cottage open and live there. It was the saddest place in all the world, but still I wanted to be there-alone. But I found I could not be alone; and the last people who came drove me nearly wild-those R-s, Fanny Meyrick's friends-and they talked about her and about you, so that I could bear it no longer. I wanted to hide myself from all the world. I knew I could be quiet at the Shaker village. I had often driven over there with Aunt Sloman: indeed, Sophia-that's the one you saw-is a great friend of Aunt Maria's." 
                     "So the lady-abbess confessed, did she?" I asked with some curiosity. 
                     "Yes: she said you were rudely inquisitive; but she excused you as unfamiliar with Shaker ways." 
                     "And were you really at Watervliet?" 
                     "Yes, but don't be in a hurry: we'll come to that presently. Sophia gave me a pretty little room opening out of hers, and they all treated me with great kindness, if they did call me Eliza." 
                     "And did you," I asked with some impatience, remembering Hiram's description-"did you sew beads on velvet and plait straw for mats?" 
                     "Nonsense! I did whatever I pleased. I was parlor-boarder, as they say in the schools. But I did learn something, sir, from that dear old sister Martha. You saw her?" 
                     "The motherly body who invited me in?" 
                     "Yes: isn't she a dear? I took lessons from her in all sorts of cookery: you shall see, Charlie, I've profited by being a Shakeress." 
                     "Yes, my darling, but did you-you didn't go to church?" 
                     "Only once," she said, with a shiver that made her all the dearer, "and they preached such dreary stuff that I told Sophia I would never go again." 
                     "But did you really wear that dress I saw you in?" 
                     "For that once only. You see, I was at Watervliet when you came. If you had only gone straight there, dear goose! instead of dodging in the road, you would have found me. I had grown a little tired of the monotony of the village, and was glad to join the party starting for Niskayuna, it was such a glorious drive across the mountain. I longed for you all the time." 
                     "Pretty little Shakeress! But why did they put us on such a false track?" 
                     "Oh, we had expected to reach home that night, but one of the horses was lame, and we did not start as soon as we had planned. We came back on Saturday afternoon-Saturday afternoon, and this is Monday morning!" leaning back dreamily, and looking across the blue distance to the far-off hills. "Then I got your card, and they told me about you, and I knew, for all the message, that you'd be back on Sunday morning. But how could I tell then that Fanny Meyrick would not be with you?" 
                     "Bessie!" and my hand tightened on hers. 
                     "Oh, Charlie, you don't know what it is to be jealous. Of course I did know that-no, I didn't, either, though I must have been sure underneath that day. For it was more in fun than anything else, after I knew you were in the meeting-house-" 
                     "How did you know?" 
                     "I saw you drive up-you and Hiram and Mrs. Hiram." 
                     "You didn't think, then, that it was Mrs. Charles?" 
                     "So I stole into Sophia's room, and put on one of her dresses. She is tall too, but it did not fit very well." 
                     "I should think not," I answered, looking down admiringly at her. 
                     "In fact," laughing, "I took quite a time pinning myself into it and getting the neckerchief folded prim. I waited till after the sermon, and then I knew by the singing that it was the last hymn, so I darted in. I don't know what they thought-that I was suddenly converted, I suppose, and they would probably have given thanks over me as a brand snatched from the burning. Did I do the dance well? I didn't want to put them out." 
                     "My darling, it was a dreadful masquerade. Did you want to punish me to the end?" 
                     "I was punished myself, Charlie, when you fell. Oh dear! don't let's talk about the dreadful thing any more. But I think you would have forgiven Elder Nebson if you had seen how tenderly he lifted you into the wagon. There, now: where are we going to live in New York, and what have we got to live on besides my little income?" 
                     "Income! I had forgotten you had any." 
                     "Ask Judge Hubbard if I haven't. You'll see." 
                     "But, my dear," said I gravely, drawing forth the packet from my breast, "I, too, have my story to tell. I cannot call it a confession, either; rather it is the story of somebody else-Hallo! who's broken the seal?" For on shipboard I had beguiled the time by writing a sort of journal to accompany Fanny's letter, and had placed all together in a thick white envelope, addressing it, in legal parlance, "To whom it may concern." 
                     "I did," said Bessie faintly, burying her face on my arm. "It fell out of your pocket when they carried you up stairs; and I read it, every word, twice over, before you came to yourself." 
                     "You little witch! And I thought you were marrying me out of pure faith in me, and not of sight or knowledge." 
                     "It was faith, the highest faith," said Bessie proudly, and looking into my eyes with her old saucy dash, "to know, to feel sure, that that sealed paper concerned nobody but me." 
                     And so she has ever since maintained. 
                   
                
             
         
       
       
          
             
            POPULAR NOVELS 
            PUBLISHED BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., PHILADELPHIA. 
             
               THE WORKS OF E. MARLITT. 
               THE OLD MAM'SELLE'S SECRET.  
                     From the German of E. MARLITT, author of "Gold Elsie," etc. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER. 12 mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     A more charming story, and one which, having once commenced, it seemed more difficult to leave, we leave not met with for many a day."-The Round Table.
                      
                     "Is one of the most intense, concentrated, compact novels of the day... And the work has the minute fidelity of the author of 'The Initials,' the dramatic unity of Reade, and the graphic power of George Eliot."-Columbus (O.) Journal.
                      
                  
                
               GOOD ELSIE.  
                     From the German of E. MARLITT, author of "The Old Mam'selle's Secret," etc. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "A charming book. It absorbs your attention from the title-page to the end."-The Home Circle.
                      
                     "A charming story charmingly told."-Baltimore Gazette.
                      
                  
                
               COUNTESS GISELA.  
                     From the German of E. MARLITT, author of "Gold Elsie," etc. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "There is more dramatic power in this than in any of the stories by the same author that we have read."-N. O. Times.
                      
                     "The best work by this author."-Philadelphia Telegraph.
                      
                  
                
               THE LITTLE MOORLAND PRINCESS.  
                     From the German of E. MARLITT, author of "The Old Mam'selle's Secret," etc. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     "By far the best foreign romance of the season."-Philadelphia Press.
                      
                     "It is a great luxury to give one's self up to its balmy influence."-Chicago Evening Journal.
                      
                  
                
               OVER YONDER.  
                     From the German of E. MARLITT, author of "Countess Gisela," etc. With a full-page Illustration. 8vo. Paper cover. 30 cents. 
                     "'Over Yonder' is a charming novelette. The admirers of 'Old Mam'selle's Secret' will give it a glad reception, while those who are ignorant of the merits of this author will find in it a pleasant introduction to the works of a gifted writer."-Daily Sentinel.
                      
                  
                
               MAGDALENA.  
                     From the German of E. MARLITT, author of "Countess Gisela," etc. And THE LONELY ONES. From the German of PAUL HEYSE. With two Illustrations. 8vo. Paper cover. 35 cents. 
                     "We know of no way in which a leisure hour may be more pleasantly whiled away than by a perusal of either of these tales."-Indianapolis Sentinel.
                      
                  
                
             
             
               THE WORKS OF WILHELMINE VON HILLERN.  
                     ONLY A GIRL.  
                           A Romance. From the German Of WILHELMINE VON HILLERN. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER. 12mo. Fine cloth. $2.00. 
                           "This is a charming work, charmingly written, and no one who reads it can lay it down without feeling impressed with the superior talent of its gifted author. As a work of fiction it will compare favorably in style and interest with the best efforts of the most gifted writers of the day, while in the purity of its tone and the sound moral lesson it teaches it is equal, if not superior, to any work of the character that has for years come under our notice."-Pittsburg Dispatch.
                            
                           "Timely, forcible, and Possessing far more than ordinary merits."-Philadelphia North American.
                            
                        
                      
                     BY HIS OWN MIGHT.  
                           A Romance. Translated from the German of WILHELMINE VON HILLERN, author of "Only a Girl," etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. 1.75. 
                           "The story is well constructed. It is vivacious, intricate, and well sustained... It is one of the best of the many excellent novels from the German issued by this house."-Phila. Ev. Bulletin.
                            
                        
                      
                     A TWOFOLD LIFE.  
                           From the German of WILHELMINE VON HILLERN, author of "Only a Girl," etc. 12mo. With Portrait. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                           "A capital novel, admirably written. None will arise from its perusal without acknowledging the strength and brilliancy of its writer."-Boston Gazette.
                            
                        
                      
                  
                
             
            *** For sale by all Booksellers, or will be sent by mail, postpaid, upon receipt of the price by the Publishers. 
          
          
             
            POPULAR NOVELS 
            PUBLISHED BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., PHILADELPHIA. 
             
               OUIDA'S WORKS. 
               TRICOTRIN.  
                     The Story of a Waif and Stray. By "OUIDA." With Portrait of the Author from an Engraving on Steel. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "The story is full of vivacity and of thrilling interest."-Pittsburg Gazette.
                      
                     "Tricotrin is a work of absolute power, some truth, and deep interest."-N. Y. Day Book.
                      
                     "The book abounds in beautiful sentiment, expressed in a concentrated, compact style which cannot fail to be attractive, and will be read with pleasure in every household."-San Fran. Times.
                      
                  
                
               GRANVILLE DE VIGNE;  
                     Or, Held in Bondage. A Tale of the Day. By "OUIDA." 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "This is one of the most powerful and spicy works of fiction which the present century, so prolific in light literature, has produced." 
                  
                
               STRATHMORE;  
                     Or, Wrought by His Own Hand. By "OUIDA." 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "It is a romance of the intense school, but it is written with more power, fluency, and brilliancy than the works of Miss Braddon and Mrs. Wood, while its scenes and characters are taken from high life."-Boston Transcript.
                      
                  
                
               IDALIA.  
                     By "OUIDA," author of "Under Two Flags," etc. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "It is a story of love and hatred, of affection and jealousy, of intrigue and devotion... We think this novel will attain a wide popularity, especially among those whose refined taste enables them to appreciate and enjoy what is truly beautiful in literature."-Albany Evening Journal.
                      
                  
                
               UNDER TWO FLAGS.  
                     A Story of the Household and the Desert. By "OUIDA." 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "No one will be able to resist its fascination who once begins its perusal."-Phila. Evening Bulletin.
                      
                     "This is probably the most popular work of 'Ouida.' It is enough of itself to establish her fame as one of the most eloquent and graphic writers of fiction now living."-Chicago Journal of Commerce.
                      
                  
                
               PUCK.  
                     His Vicissitudes, Adventures, Observations, Conclusions, Friendships, and Philosophies. By "OUIDA." 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "Its quaintness will provoke laughter, while the interest in the central character is kept up unabated."-Albany Journal.
                      
                     "It sustains the widely-spread popularity of the author."-Pittsburg Gazette.
                      
                  
                
               FOLLE-FARINE.  
                     By "OUIDA," author of "Under Two Flags," etc. 12 mo. Cloth, $1.50. 
                     "Ouida's pen is a graphic one, and page after page of gorgeous word-painting flow from it in a smooth, melodious rhythm that often has the perfect measure of blank verse, and needs only to be broken into line. There is in it, too, the eloquence of genius."-Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
                      
                     "This work fully sustains the writer's previous reputation, and may be numbered among the best of her works."-Troy Times.
                      
                  
                
               CHANDOS.  
                     By "OUIDA," author of "Strathmore" etc. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "Those who have read these two last-named brilliant works of fiction (Granville de Vigne and Strathmore) will be sure to read Chandos. It is characterized by the same gorgeous coloring of style and somewhat exaggerated portraiture of scenes and characters, but it is a story of surprising power and interest."-Pittsburg Evening Chronicle.
                      
                  
                
               PASCAREL.  
                     By "OUIDA," author of "Strathmore," "Idalia," "Under Two Flags," "Tricotrin," etc. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "A charming novel, far in advance of 'Ouida's' earlier novels."-London Athenum.
                      
                     "It is masterly as a romance."-London Spectator.
                      
                  
                
               A LEAF IN THE STORM,  
                     And other Novelettes. By "OUIDA." Two Illustrations. 8vo. Paper cover. 50 cents. 
                     Those who look upon light literature as an art will read these tales with pleasure and satisfaction."-Baltimore Gazette.
                      
                  
                
               CECIL CASTLEMAINE'S GAGE,  
                     And other Stories. By "OUIDA." 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                  
                
               RANDOLPH GORDON,  
                     And other Stories. By "OUIDA." 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                  
                
               BEATRICE BOVILLE,  
                     And other Stories. By "OUIDA." 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "The many works already in print by this versatile authoress have established her reputation as a novelist, and these short stories contribute largely to the stock of pleasing narratives and adventures alive to the memory of all who are given to romance and fiction."-New Haven Journal.
                      
                  
                
             
            *** For sale by all Booksellers, or will be sent by mail, postpaid, upon receipt of the price by the Publishers. 
          
          
             
            OUIDA'S POPULAR NOVELS. 
            NEW EDITIONS. 
            Bound in Extra Cloth, Black and Gilt Ornamentations. Price, $1.50 per Volume. 
             
               GRANVILLE DE VIGNE;  
                     Or, HELD IN BONDAGE. A Tale of the Day. 
                     "This is one of the most powerful and spicy works of fiction which the present century, so prolific in light literature, has produced." 
                  
                
               UNDER TWO FLAGS.  
                     A Story of the Household and the Desert. 
                     "No one will be able to resist its fascination who once begins its perusal."-Phila. Evening Bulletin.
                      
                     "This is probably the most popular work of 'Ouida.' It is enough of itself to establish her fame as one of the most eloquent and graphic writers of fiction now living."-Chicago Journal of Commerce.
                      
                  
                
               FOLLE-FARINE.  
                     "'Ouida's' pen is a graphic one, and page after page of gorgeous word-painting flows from it in a smooth, melodious rhythm that often has the perfect measure of blank verse, and needs only to be broken into line. There is in it, too, the eloquence of genius."-Phila. Evening Bulletin.
                      
                     "This work fully sustains the writer's previous reputation, and may be numbered among the best of her works."-Troy Times.
                      
                  
                
               STRATHMORE;  
                     Or, WROUGHT BY HIS OWN HAND. 
                     "It is a romance of the intense school, but it is written with more power, fluency, and brilliancy than the works of Miss Braddon and Mrs. Wood, while its scenes and characters are taken from high life."-Boston Transcript.
                      
                  
                
               TRICOTRIN.  
                     The Story of a Waif and Stray. With Portrait of the Author from an Engraving on Steel. 
                     "The book abounds in beautiful sentiment, expressed in a concentrated, compact style which cannot fail to be attractive, and will be read with pleasure in every household."-San Francisco Times.
                      
                  
                
               CHANDOS.  
                     "Those who have read Granville de Vigne and Strathmore will be sure to read Chandos. It is characterized by the same gorgeous coloring of style and somewhat exaggerated portraiture of scenes and characters, but it is a story of surprising power and interest."-Pittsburg Evening Chronicle.
                      
                  
                
               PUCK.  
                     His Vicissitudes, Adventures, Observations, Conclusions, Friendships, and Philosophies. 
                     "Its quaintness will provoke laughter, while the interest in the central character is kept up unabated."-Albany Journal.
                      
                  
                
               BBE,  
                     Or TWO LITTLE WOODEN SHOES. 
                     "Simplicity and pure nature, unmarred by sensationalism of any kind, make the story as excellent as anything Ouida has written."-Philadelphia North American.
                      
                     "One of the most tenderly beautiful stories we ever read."-Boston Literary World.
                      
                  
                
               IDALIA.  
                     "It is a story of love and hatred, of affection and jealousy, of intrigue and devotion... We think this novel will attain a wide popularity, especially among those whose refined taste enables them to appreciate and enjoy what is truly beautiful in literature."-Albany Evening Journal.
                      
                  
                
               PASCAREL.  
                     "A charming novel, far in advance of 'Ouida's' earlier novels."-London Athenum.
                      
                     "It is masterly as a romance."-London Spectator.
                      
                  
                
               BEATRICE BOVILLE,  
                     AND OTHER STORIES. 
                     "The many works already in print by this versatile authoress have established her reputation as a novelist, and these short stories contribute largely to the stock of pleasing narratives and adventures alive to the memory of all who are given to romance and fiction."-New Haven Journal.
                      
                  
                
               RANDOLPH GORDON,  
                     AND OTHER STORIES. 
                     "Our word for it, it is full of sparkle, dramatic situation, and sharp characterization. We have never yet seen a dull page from 'Ouida.'"-New Orleans Picayune.
                      
                  
                
               A LEAF IN THE STORM,  
                     AND OTHER NOVELETTES. 
                     With Two Illustrations. 8vo. Paper cover. 50 cents. 
                     Those who look upon light literature as an art will read these tales with pleasure and satisfaction."-Baltimore Gazette.
                      
                  
                
               CECIL CASTLEMAINE'S GAGE,  
                     AND OTHER STORIES. 
                  
                
             
            *** For sale by all Booksellers, or will be sent by mail, postpaid, upon receipt of the price by J.B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., Publishers, Philadelphia. 
          
          
             
            POPULAR OCTAVO NOVELS, 
            BOUND IN CLOTH AND PAPER COVERS. 
             
               MUST IT BE?  
                     A Romance. Translated from the German of CARL DETLEF. With Illustrations. Cloth. $1.25. Paper. 75 cents. 
                     "The scene is laid in Russia, and the story is told with great vigor and picturesqueness of style. It has some charming domestic scenes, in addition to a number of intensely dramatic situations. The plot is exceedingly well managed, and the descriptions of Russian character, manners and scenery are particularly happy."-Boston Globe.
                      
                  
                
               A GREAT LADY.  
                     A Romance. From the German of Van Dewall. By MS. With Illustrations. Cloth. $1.25. Paper. 75 cents. 
                     "The story is exciting and told in fascinating style, and is well illustrated with full-page engravings."-Philada. Ev. Bulletin.
                      
                     "The story is told with charming simplicity, and is well worth perusal."-New York Graphic.
                      
                  
                
               NOT PRETTY, BUT PRECIOUS,  
                     and other Short Stories. 
                     By JOHN HAY, CLARA F. GUERNSEY, etc. Paper. 50 cents. 
                     "Is a delightful little companion for leisure hours."-Philada. Trade Circular.
                      
                  
                
               SEED TIME AND HARVEST;  
                     Or, During My Apprenticeship. Translated from the Platt-Deutsch of Fritz Reuter. Cloth. $1.50. Paper. $1.00 
                     "It is a book that will be read with the greatest interest, not alone from the fact that it is one of the best works of one of the most popular of German novelists, but also because it is strong and fresh in characterization, the various personages in the novel being drawn with a minuteness and fidelity to nature that is rarely attainable."-Boston Traveller.
                      
                  
                
               ERMA'S ENGAGEMENT.  
                     By the Author of "Blanche Seymour," etc. Cloth. $1.25. Paper. 75 cents. 
                     "A charming love story, pleasantly told and leaving the common line of love-experience, certainly the common line of engagement-experience. The interest does not depend upon the plot but the plot is intensely interesting. The story is one that the novel reader will enjoy."-Toledo Blade.
                      
                  
                
               BLANCHE SEYMOUR.  
                     By the Author of "Erma's Engagement." Cloth. $1.25. Paper. 75 cents. 
                     "Like its predecessor, it is full of animation and interest, and devoid of the lower lines of sensational appeal."-Utica Herald.
                      
                  
                
               BEYOND THE BREAKERS.  
                     A Story of the Present Day. By ROBERT DALE OWEN. With Illustrations. Cloth. $1.50. Paper. $1. 
                     "A straightforward, vigorous American story."-Chicago Journal.
                      
                     "We have read it with deep interest and genuine pleasure, and can say for it what we can say for few novels of the day, that we hope some time to read it again."-New York Independent.
                      
                  
                
               ROOKSTONE.  
                     By Katherine S. Macquoid. With Illustrations. Cloth. $1.25. Paper. 75 cents. 
                     "'Rookstone' is a touching story of love and hate and scheming ambition. The author has covered a well-worn plot with a good covering of sentiment."-Philada. Bulletin.
                      
                  
                
               DOROTHY FOX.  
                     By the Author of "Hero Carthew." With Illustrations. Cloth. $1.25. Paper. 75 cents. 
                     "The story is dramatically interesting, and the characters are drawn with a firm and graceful hand. The style is fresh and natural, vigorous without vulgarity, simple without mawkishness. Dorothy herself is represented as charming all hearts, and she will charm all readers. We wish 'Dorothy Fox' many editions."-London Times.
                      
                  
                
               THE HIGH MILLS.  
                     By Katherine Saunders. With Illustrations. Cloth. $1.25. Paper. 75 cents. 
                     "In many respects one of the best and most powerful works of fiction that have been lately issued."-Boston Journal.
                      
                  
                
               ARTICLE 47.  
                     A Romance. From the French of Adolphe Belot. By JAMES FURBISH. Cloth. $1.25. Paper. 75 cents. 
                     "An able translation of this brilliant and celebrated story, whose thrilling incidents and vivid scenes will amply repay perusal."-Chicago Inter-Ocean.
                      
                  
                
               KITTY'S CHOICE.  
                     A Story of Berrytown. By Rebecca HARDING DAVIS. Paper. 40 cents. 
                  
                
               THE HEIR OF MALREWARD;  
                     Or, Restored. By the Author of "Son and Heir," etc. Cloth. $1.50. Paper. $1.00. 
                  
                
             
            For sale by all Booksellers, or will be sent by mail, postpaid, upon receipt of the price by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., Publishers, Philadelphia. 
          
       
   
