
    ----CITATION----
        Blackson, Lorenzo D., (b. 1817). The Rise and Progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness, or, The Reign of Kings Alpha and Abadon .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5825
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF THE KINGDOMS OF LIGHT & DARKNESS. 
               OR, THE REIGN OF KINGS ALPHA AND ABADON. 
             
            BY LORENZO D. BLACKSON.
             
             
                
                  
                     "All these things spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables, and without a parable spake he not unto them, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in parables:
                     I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of the world."
                   
                  -MATT. XIII. CHAP., v. 34 AND 35. 
                
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               J. NICHOLAS, PRINTER, 310 CHESTNUT STREET.
             
            1867. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867, BY LORENZO D. BLACKSON, in the Clerk's Office of District Court for East. District of Pennsylvania. 
          
          
             
            
                
                  Lorenzo D. Blackson 
               
             
          
          
             
             
            SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF THE AUTHOR. 
            I WAS born on the 9th day of May, in the year of our Lord 1817, in the village of Christiana, Delaware. The names of my parents were Thomas and Hannah Blackson. They had both formerly been slaves, but my father being set free at the age of 35, he afterward bought my mother's time. They had seven children before my mother's freedom, who were born slaves, viz.: Rebecca, Maria, George, Adam and Eve, who were twins, Seth and Shadrach. After my mother's freedom, there were four of us who were born free, namely, Thomas, Lorenzo, William and Susan. 
            The knowledge I have of my predecessors does not extend far back. My father and his father and grandfather, I was informed, were each named Thomas, and I am told some of the relatives were very powerful men physically. Of a grand uncle, it is said that twenty-five men could not surround and take him. My father's mother was named Susan. My mother's father was an African prince, who, with a son and a daughter, were stolen away from that country and made slaves. He was said to have a gold chain about his neck when stolen. His African name was Palice Abrutas Darram. His son's name, who came with him, was Mounch. His daughter's name was Yambo. My uncle Mounch being a slave, ran away from Delaware many years ago, and very probably changed his name, making it hard for his relatives to find him. When my mother last heard of him, many years ago, he was then living in the city of New York, and was well to do. My aunt Yambo was taken out West, and is said to have married an Indian. My reason for particularizing these things is the hope that this may come under the notice of those spoken of, if alive, and if dead, that some of the surviving friends or relatives might see it, and be able to give us some information regarding our relatives. To return. My father and mother were for many years worthy members of the M. E. Church, and died in that faith, leaving a bright testimony behind them. The children which were under their control they endeavored to train up in the way they should go, setting them a good example, and it may be owing to this that their children who have lived to grow up, have generally been members of Church, and three of their sons are at this time preachers of the Gospel, viz.: Shadrach, Thomas and Lorenzo. The last part of my father's servitude was with a family named Steward, near St. George's, Del. My mother served the last part of her servitude with Mr. Joel Lewis, of Christiana, Delaware, who was father to William D. Lewis, Esq., of Philadelphia. My father was for a number of years an exhorter in the M. E. Church, and was said to be very useful, and was a man much gifted and powerful in prayer; and there are those yet living who can bear witness to the efficacy of his prayers, having felt the effects thereof. He died on the 27th day of April, 1844. The last time he partook of nourishment, he said the next time he ate, he expected to do it in heaven, in his Father's house. He died soon after. My mother survived him a few years, and died as she lived, in the triumph of faith. They now rest from their labor, and their works do follow them. They were both much respected by persons of all classes in the neighborhood where they lived. My father was considered an eminently pious man, and though he was a colored man, there were many white persons who acknowledge to have been converted under his prayers or exhortations. Some, I believe, are yet alive, and can testify to the truth of this assertion, notwithstanding the prejudice to color that did then and still does exist. 
            Having such parents, I had, as a matter of course, religious instruction from my earliest days, and was said to be a remarkable child when quite young, and was often engaged in attempting to pray and preach, and though being too young to understand the nature of what I was doing, it is said I sometimes made very appropriate remarks. When I was 8 or 9 years of age, there were two men who were brothers, and professed to be friends of my father. They requested my parents to let my brother Thomas and myself come and live with them as their own children, and go to school, they living in Baltimore. We left home for the first time in our lives, and went, according to their request, to live with them. We were with them for about seven months, the chief part of which time I was sent to school and learned very fast, so that when I had gone about one quarter, I had learned from my alphabet to read a little. Our teacher was a colored man by the name of Magill, and was a very good teacher. My brother was not sent to school, but was treated cruelly and 
                  brntally
                  brutally
                by the man, but kindly by his wife, the man tying him up and whipping the blood out of him, and then putting salt upon him. The man I lived with treated me well, but his wife did not, for every week, whether I done anything wrong or not, she would strip me naked and whip me so severely with a leather strap, that the neighbors would sometimes come in and entreat her to desist, but this seemed to make her worse. Besides, she did not give me enough to eat, and when her daughter did any fault, for which she whipped her, she generally whipped me also; and when she did so, she commonly held my feet up and my head down. This cruel treatment caused me to pray earnestly that my mother might come and take me home. I remember one day I had been out, and earnestly engaged in prayer that my mother might come and take me away. I had scarcely got in the house when who should come in but my mother. The reader may imagine my joy at seeing her. When she returned home, she took my brother and myself along with her, and I have ever since thought it was a manifest answer to prayer. After my return home, as we lived near a school house where none but white children were allowed to go, yet, as the teacher was a great scholar and highly honored, the people would naturally bear more from him than another less honored; so therefore, as he employed my father to cut the wood for the school house and me to make the fire and sweep the house, they suffered him to pay by learning me my lessons. I continued to go through the winter, or about three or four months, by which time I had commenced to learn to write a little. But the white boys refused to allow me to set on the same seat or write at the same desk with them, and told me to kneel down at the bench I sat on and write on it. The teacher perhaps in this dare not interfere; so I got offended and ceased to go to school. As my parents did not make me continue, this was chiefly all the schooling I ever got, except what I taught myself, which will account for my deficiency in literature. It may not be amiss to state here that the name of the teacher referred to above was the Hon. William Madill, who has since not only gained that title, but has also held the honorable position of Governor of the State of Ohio, to which State he removed directly or indirectly from Delaware. Now, as I do not at this time purpose to give a minute account of my past experience, but merely a sketch, I will be under the necessity of passing many things by unnoticed, therefore I pass on to my twelfth or thirteenth year, when I was bound at my own request to a Mr. Joseph Taggart, who resided in Chester County, Pennsylvania, near Penningtonville, having lived with him several months before being bound; and liking him and his family, he promising to treat me equally as well after I was bound as before, therefore I desired my father to bind me to him. But after I was bound, I did not like it as well as before, and found a marked difference; and while there I was convicted for sin under the preaching of Rev. Thomas Miller and an exhortation of Rev. Jefferson Quigley. Being about 12 or 13 years old, I did not receive the blessing at that time. I thought I could not while being confined to home as I was then, and did not get the opportunity to go to meeting often, and had various things to encounter which I believed hindered me from getting ting religion; therefore I prayed earnestly to the Lord that I might get free before I was 21 years of age. Mr. T. soon after removed to Philadelphia; this not bettering my condition, I still continued to pray for freedom, and asked my sister, who lived in the city, to do the same. I promised the Lord that if he would only bring it to pass that I should get free before I was 21, I would then earnestly seek religion. Soon after this, Mr. Taggart concluded to remove West, and as I was bound so that he could not take me out of Pennsylvania or Delaware, therefore he had to let me go free, which was what I had been praying for; but to my shame I did not keep my promise for some time; but I could not rest contented on account of not keeping it. I continued this way for some time. When I was about 16 years old, in the beginning of 1833, the Rev. John Hearsy, a celebrated Methodist preacher, passing through the village of Christiana, preached two powerful sermons, the one from this text: "Delight thou thyself in the Lord, and He will give thee the desire of thy heart." The other from the following: "The angel of the Lord encampeth around about them that fear Him, to do them good." In describing the power of angels, he said they could do almost anything, except to forgive sins, and there was only one Angel that could do that, namely, the Angel of the Covenant. His discourse interested me very much, and I was aroused to a sense of my danger, and did not rest until I had sought and found the Lord, which I did after a long and severe struggle, on a Christmas day, in the year 1833; and it is only for those who have felt the glorious effects of the pardoning love of God to know my joyful feeling when I received the witness of sins forgiven. Neither my tongue nor pen can express my exceeding great joy, for it was truly joy unspeakable and full of glory, as the Scriptures affirm it to be. Now, as I above said, my parents were Methodists, and from my earliest remembrance they always took their children to church with them, and, as a matter of course, my sympathies would naturally be towards them, as they were and until now I am, partial to that sect, and their faith and doctrine I believe to be as near, if not more so, than any other, to that preached in the primitive Christian Church. Nevertheless, their general proceedings with their colored members caused me to doubt in even them, for I very early perceived that they made a vast difference in their treatment of the colored and white members in almost every respect; for even when they worshipped together in the same meeting-house, they had a separate place, namely, the gallery, for their colored members to set, in which there were benches without backs, against which old persons might rest their feeble frames; whilst for their white members, whether they were old or young, there were benches provided with backs. This and various other distinctions made merely on account of color, caused me to halt in my mind and consider whether it was best for me as a colored person to attach myself to a church that made such a marked difference in its members on account of color. Now, though I was convicted in the Methodist Episcopal Church, yet I was converted in the African Union Church, now called the American Union Church, founded by the Rev. Peter Spencer, colored, who with others withdrew from the white M. E. Church, on account of said things, yet he retained the M. E. faith and doctrine. I inquired of the Lord, when I got converted, what Church I had best join. I believe I was directed to the A. U. Church by the Spirit of the Lord, and unless she too, like other churches which have preceded her, deviates too far from her first principles, I expect ever to remain in her. But to proceed briefly. After I joined Church for near about two years, I was then moved by the Spirit of the Lord to go out and warn sinners to repentance. For a long time I would not yield to the impulse of the Spirit, and I tried to believe it was the wrong spirit that moved me to go out; but I was at length convinced to the contrary, and compelled to believe that it was the true Spirit of God that moved me to go out; and still not being willing to go out, I kept back as long as I could. But I had to yield to the impulse of the Spirit, and go. But as I purpose to give a more full detail, the Lord willing, of my experience, I merely hint at it now. 
            As I have above said, it is not my intention to give a full or minute account of my past experience at this time, as time and opportunity will not admit, but lest I should never have a better opportunity it may not be amiss to give a brief detail of my conversion and call to the ministry; without going farther back than the day in which I received the pardon of my sins which was as aforesaid, 
                  on on
                  on
                the 25th day of December 1833. Being deeply convicted, I went into a general class-meeting in the African Union Church of Christiana, Delaware; and after each one had rose on their feet and spoke for themselves without being led, as is customary in these meetings; as I knew I was not converted, I did not intend to say anything, but old Father William Murphy, who sat next to me requested me to say something, I arose and said I had not religion, but wanted to get it; when I had finished speaking I felt the need of it more than ever, and therefore fell upon my knees in the presence of the whole congregation, and cried aloud from the great depths of my heart for God to have mercy upon me for the sake of Jesus alone, as I had nothing good of myself to recommend me into the favor of God. Whilst I was thus crying and weeping, I caught faith to believe that God for Christ sake would pardon me of my sins which I felt were many, and my only hope was the merits of his death and sufferings, and I give God all the glory and praise that in looking in this way for the blessing I soon received it to the great joy and satisfaction of my poor mourning soul, and my mourning was turned into joy, and for the first time in my life I could realize the words of the poet, who said "When I am happy in Him, December is as pleasant as May;" and I then felt exceedingly happy; yet I did not get so clear an evidence of my acceptance with God as I did soon after, for, though I felt joy and ecstacy, I was not willing to rely on that alone as a full proof that I was converted; therefore I prayed earnestly for the witness which I received, and a full assurance that my whole nature was changed to grace so that I could of a truth join with the poet, and say "The Spirit answers to the blood, and tells me I am born of God &c." I felt that if the Lord called me away any moment I would get to Heaven, for condemnation was gone, and the fear of death and hell was entirely removed; but it is in vain for me to attempt to describe the happiness I then felt, for it was truly joy unspeakable and full of glory; for when I looked back upon my past offences and saw what a great sinner I had been, and what a great God I had sinned against, and yet although I had sinned against him He had done so much for me even when I was a sinner; at the sight of these things I was lost in love, and wonder, and surprise, to think that the Great Creator of all things who is infinite in wisdom and power and in all his attributes, and that notwithstanding all of this, he should condescend to stoop down so low as to take on him the nature of man, sin only excepted, and live a suffering life, and die an ignominious death on the cross for man's redemption. 
            When considering these things, I felt that I never would be able to make a suitable recompense, nor to serve him as he deserved to be served; therefore I felt it my duty to do all I could to serve him, and so I set to work to try with all my might to do what I thought he required of me, and give myself to prayers and watching and sometimes fasting; but yet I felt myself very weak and unworthy, and that I was the least of all the Lord's little ones, for I thought of our Lord's command to his Disciples which was thus, "After ye have done all that is commanded of you say that ye are unprofitable servants, that ye have only done that which ye were commanded to do;" and, if they, after having done all that was commanded, were still to call themselves unprofitable, how much more should I who come so far short of doing all when I saw my short comings. It often used to grieve me to see the very great duty I owed to God, and how far I was from fulfilling it; but yet praise the Lord, he did not cast me off in his sore displeasure, but instead was exceedingly merciful to me, and gently led me along for the space of about one year and four or five months, when the worth of precious souls was laid very near my heart; although at the first of my conversion, I had a very great desire to see sinners converted, so that I often used to talk with some of my young friends who had been my playmates about their soul's eternal welfare, and I had the happiness of seeing some of them soon coming over on the Lord's side. In those days I had happy seasons, but this was not to remain long, for there were heavier crosses to come than any I had yet met with, for after this there was a work laid upon me to do, which I believed I could not do, and intended therefore not to attempt it. 
            In the year 1835, in the later part of May, I being in my 18th year of age, there was a deep impression laid upon me which I strove with all my might to resist from the very day I first felt it; for I thought it could not be from God, therefore I strove with all my might to put the thoughts of it entirely out of my mind, and prayed to God if it was not from him to remove it entirely from me; but instead of doing this he withdrew his spirit from me, and I could not feel happy like I once could, for it appeared the Lord would not hear my prayer, but left me almost comfortless, and in this comfortless state I strove to do all I knew was my duty to do, except the one thing which I could not believe was my duty to do; but when believing it was not I could not feel that joy and happiness which the Lord gave me to feel when he first spoke peace to my soul; for then when I went to the house of the Lord, I could always feel some of the good comforting spirit, and rejoice with that joy that is unspeakable and full of glory; and whenever I was at a good meeting, I always was sure to get a share of it, but now the scene had changed: for when I went to the house of the Lord, I could hardly ever feel happy but felt dead, heavy and cold, even when there was a great time of rejoicing among the people, and I could get no relief only when I would yield to be willing to do anything to please God he might require, even if it should be that which appeared to me to be impossible for so weak and unworthy a creature as I to do. I sometimes felt willing, if he would make me fully sensible he required it of me to attempt it, and while this willingness remained I could feel some of that joy and happiness which the Lord gave me when he first set my soul at liberty; but this willingness would remain but a very short time and then doubts would begin to rise again, and I would think it could not be possible the Lord required so great a work of me, that I was so incapable of performing so very great and so important a work; but the spirit said go, and I will be with you; but my reply was, Lord I am ignorant and fearful, and he that preaches thy word ought not to fear the face of man; also I have not the gift that is needful for a man to have who is a witness for thee, and I have not enough grace; but being convinced that all of these things was the gift of God, and as assuredly as he had sent me, and had promised to be with me, he would give me all things that would be needful for me to have. If I done my part therefore I was left without excuse; as to these things my next excuse was my brethern I supposed would not believe me, but would think I came of myself because others had gone, or to seek a high place, or to get a name amongst men, which I knew would be a very great grief to me for such things to be believed concerning me; these things with many others made me feel an unwillingness to make the attempt to go, and therefore I thought I would never go if there was any other way for me to get to Heaven without going, for I felt willing to do anything I knew of to please God but this, and therefore I resolved to use every other means of grace but this one; and many times I tried to believe that this one was not required of me by the Lord, but was a temptation presented to me by the devil, therefore I strove the more to resist it, but when I done so I was left comfortless and helpless, and it was in vain for me to try to get relief in any other way out to believe that it was the spirit of the Lord that moved me to go; and when believing it was then I felt comfort and happiness, but believing it was not, I felt miserable; but yet I thought it was not on account of my not believing that made me feel so bad, but was on account of my not living as near to the Lord as I ought, therefore I would try to make a double effort to serve the Lord better than ever, but I found myself unable even to do as well, and this caused me much grief, and to mourn, and cry, and pray unto God for relief, but instead of relief, there came more grief until my grief became so great that I desired to die rather than to feel as I did, or to do so great a work, for it appeared to me as death to go and death to stay, so I halted between two opinions what I would do, and I said woe be to me if I go, and woe be to me if I do not. But unbelief still had a place in my heart, and I strove with all my might and main still to believe it was not of God, for I thought I had not proof enough of it; so therefore I again strove to content myself and cast it out of my mind, but I could not do it, and I felt myself getting weaker and weaker. 
            The spirit of the Lord seemed almost to have forsaken me, and I felt unable to do any good things, and my prayers seemed not to be heard, and when I would look back and think of the happy seasons I had when I first started to serve the Lord, and think how miserable I now felt, sorrow would fill my heart; for I well knew that in time past I had felt the true spirit of God, but I did not feel it now as I had formerly, and I knew without it I could not stand; and the thoughts of going back was too awful for me to bear the idea of, but I found that to stand I could not, except I became willing to do the will of the Lord in all things. So therefore, I found there was no other remedy, but to do his will or go back. On the 4th day of April, 1837, I went away in a secret place, where in the days of my first love, I had often went to pray, and had there often felt the spirit of God; and bowing upon my knees, I there poured out my complaint to the Lord in prayer with all my heart, and besought him to show me what was his will concerning me, and what he would have me to do, and I there gave myself up wholly to the Lord, to be willing to do anything whatsoever he required of me, even if it was to go out and warn sinners of their danger; and then did the Lord hear my weak prayer, and give me to feel such joy as I had seldom felt before. My tongue nor pen is by no means able to express the happiness I felt, for it appeared as though I was filled with the fullness of God, and was happy throughout my soul, body, and spirit, for I felt as sensible of the divine presence of the spirit of God throughout my soul and body, from the crown of my head to the soul of my feet, as I did of my existence; and all doubts and unbelief were removed entirely away, and my soul was unspeakably happy, almost as much as my body could contain, and at one time the spirit of God came so powerfully upon me as to take away for a few minutes the use of my limbs, and being overpowered, I fell as though I had been shot; and oh how happy was my soul. I felt some of the joy of the world come; and this glorious feeling continued with me a few days, in which time it appeared I had victory over every kind of sin, even of evil thoughts, and wrong desires, and wrong inclinations and temptations, for the Lord was with me, and felt sensible of his presence, and that he had done all, and I had done nothing that was good, but all good was of the Lord, and to him alone belonged the praise for all the good that was done in me. Thus I was gently led on for the space of five days, when I began to conclude that if I could feel thus happy without going out in a public way, I would yet forbear to go. 
            But O how soon did this joyful feeling leave me; when I came to this conclusion, I felt again distressed and oppressed in my mind, and when I found I was thus left desolate, I took to fasting and prayer, for the return of the Spirit; and after I had fasted two days and two nights, instead of gaining relief I was more and more distressed and grieved in my mind, and I could find no other reason for it except the conclusion I came to, to not go out to warn sinners; then did I remember that it was after I yielded to be willing to go out and speak the word of God, that the Lord was so merciful as to bless me with the great blessing I had received, and, also, it was after I concluded not to go that it was withdrawn from me; then did I again come to the same conclusion I had when I received that great blessing, and I yielded to believe it was the spirit of God that said go and warn sinners, and then did I again feel some of the joyful feeling, which convinced me that it must truly be of God, as I could find peace and happiness in no other way, but believing it was of him, for I was worse tormented in doubting it now than ever before, so that I saw plainly there was no other way for me to go to escape hell, and get to heaven, but to go in this self same way, and that nothing else I could do would be acceptable to the Lord unless I done this also, which I would rather, if I could have had my own will and please the Lord to not do this, but I found these words of St, Paul applicable to myself; Woe is me if I preach not the Gospel pel under this awful impression, I made known my case to one of the brethern, viz.: E. Saunders, who exhorted me to examine the spirit, and to know and be fully persuaded in my own mind: which 1 told him I did, and would still seek a deeper witness and so on that evening, which was a Sunday evening: I asked the Lord to give me that night, as a proof he had called me, one sinner to receive the pardon of his sins, which the Lord did; for although in the commencement, the meeting appeared very dull; yet, when it was about to come to a close, the Lord struck 
                  oue
                  one
                sinner who came out on the floor, rejoicing and praising God, and who testified before that meeting came to a close, that the Lord had converted his soul; his name is James Potter, formerly of Christiana, Del. He is yet alive, though it has been twenty-nine years (1866) or thereabout, and he still remains a worthy member of the A. U. Church, and an officer in the Iron Hill branch of the Church. We had at the time of his conversion, a mighty time of rejoicing that night; all of this went to prove more fully to my understanding, that the Lord had truly called me to proclaim the word of truth, therefore I gave up to go whenever my way should be clear, for I had now told the brethern what lay on my mind and that I was willing to go whenever my way should be open to take up my cross, and try to do the work. I felt myself clear as to my part, and while I was awaiting for my way to be open, my prayer to the Lord was, that if after all I was deceived, and he had not called me, to block up my way that I might not go, and rather let me die, than to go without being sent; yet I dared not disbelieve that I was sent, at the risk of being tormented with some of the torments which I sometimes thought that souls that were lost must feel, and to be delivered from such awful torments as these, I had no other remedy but believe, with the determination to do the work whereunto I was sent, and this remedy I choosed rather than sleepless and restless nights, and almost a broken heart; and this remedy was always sure to give relief, and in this relief I would resolve to do all that lay in my power to get my way open; and under this determination I went three times to Wilmington, Delaware, with the intention of seeing Father Peter Spencer the founder of the A. U. Church; and of telling him the exercise of my mind, but as the cross seemed very heavy, I went home each time without telling him, but I was troubled very much on account of so doing; the last time I went home with the intention of never going again; but to try to rest contented in the place I was in, and if my way was never open to try to save my soul in a private way, but my old distress returned again; and I was glad to do anything I could so my way might be made open, and I again promised the Lord that if He would pour His Spirit upon me, and give me to feel the joy I had felt before, I would, the next opportunity, tell Father Spencer how I was moved upon, and then again the Lord was so merciful as to bless me to that degree that my bodily strength failed under the weight thereof, and I was overwhelmed in the love of God, and resolved that I would do the will of the Lord if it cost me my life. Now all this time the Lord was working for me, and I knew it not, as appeared from what soon after took place; for very soon after this, Brother Ellis Saunders, as I was sitting in Brother Richard Green's house, asked me how my mind was respecting the things I stated to him some time ago. I promptly told him my mind was still the same, and more stronger so, than before. And there was no doubt in my mind respecting my call, and I was fully persuaded in my mind. So that evening he told me I had the voice of our own Home Official men in the Church at Christiana, Del. And he asked me which place I would prefer to have my trial, at home or Wilmington. I answered at home. He asked me if I would rather go to 
                  Wilmingtou
                  Wilmington
                myself, and make my case known, or prefer some one to go for me to shun the Cross. I said I would rather some one would go for me, and requested him to go, which request he agreed to, and did so. And after this 1 was permitted to say something at home only. On the 11th day of March, 1838, was the first time I ever attempted to say anything in a public way, and though it was a very heavy Cross, I felt the Lord to be with me, and that while doing so, I was doing the will of God. But the fear of man had too much place in me to do the work as it ought to be done,-therefore I made but very slow progress in gaining strength. But by the grace of God I continued through much weakness to say something, until early in the year of our Lord 1839, when I began to increase a little in strength, and to gain a little more faith, and made strong resolutions to do what the Lord required of me more faithfully than I had ever done before, and all Glory, Honor and Praise, be unto Him who has kept me until now. I felt the Lord to be with me in those days, but this to me now was the beginning of sorrow, for fierce persecution, and false accusations, and false reports, began to raise dreadfully against me, and things that I knew nothing of, were reported about me for truth, and what was worse, these false reports were believed by some of high standing in the Church, without even inquiring of me whether these things were so or not, and I was dealt with as though I was guilty of those false accusations, for about this time my trial was appointed by Father Peter Spencer to be at Wilmington, before him and the Official Board of the Church there, he being the senior Elderminister of the Union Church, and having the whole connection under his charge, being the founder thereof and if standing my examination and was approbated by the Board, I would then be permitted to exercise in any branch in the connection; but on account of these false accusations, it was objected by our home men, or some of them at least, that I should not be sent on to Wilmington at the time appointed, and this conclusion was come to without my knowledge, or I even that an accusation was brought against me, and was objected to, for I was never told of it until within two days of the time appointed for me to be at Wilmington. On Thursday evening, January 10th, 1839, we had our young people's meeting at C-, and a most glorious time we had, and I was very happy in the Lord, and felt as strong a determination to serve the Lord as ever I had, and I was really trying to do so with all my heart, but however it was thought otherwise by some without any sufficient cause for their so doing. Now our home men had said nothing to me as yet, concerning my going to Wilmington, but Father Spencer had told me some time before, when I was to come up to Wilmington; so now the time drew nigh, this being Thursday evening, and the Saturday evening following, being the appointed time. As I was returning home from our young people's meeting, I fell in with E. S. our Elder, and merely asked when he saw Father Spencer last, if he had said anything concerning me, to which he answered somewhat sharply, that he did, and that I was to have been sent on to Wilmington the following Saturday, but that there was some objection to me, and I could not be recommended, and further said that my walks of late had not corresponded with what they were formerly. I will here say in his vindication, that he had been misinformed by those whom he thought he could rely upon, which will account for his proceedings with me. 
            But to return, in answer to what he spoke to me, I replied I did not know that I had done anything wrong, and if I had, I was very sorry for it, and would not have done it knowingly, and if any one had said anything about me, if it was true, I would own it; he replied there was nothing so bad but what it might be mended. I told him I was very sorry these things had happened, and that I would have suffered almost anything rather than for them to have happened; he replied he was sorry too, and so we parted. I went on my way home almost broken hearted, and I went to bed, but not to sleep, for the thoughts of what I had so lately heard, took all sleep far away from me, and I felt that the loss of any earthly friend would not have grieved me near so much, nor any bodily pain distressed me in any degree to be compared with the distress of my mind.-But neither my tongue nor pen is able to express the distress of my mind, and my earnest prayer to the Lord, is that if it is His will He will never let me spend another night like that. But then my distress departed not with the night, but was still with me in the morning, when I went to a friend's house, and my distress had taken such an effect upon me, that they took me to be sick, and said that I looked as though I had just come out of a spell of sickness, and asked me if I was sick. I told them I was not, and then I could not refrain from bursting into tears before them all, and two of them went out to talk over the matter, for one of them knew something of the affair before, but had not told me, which I told him he ought to have done; so after I stayed a while with them and talked of the things that had happened me, I left them and went to the woods to spend the rest of the day in sorrow, in fasting, and prayer, and meditation, for my grief was too great for me to desire to eat, so therefore to be in the woods alone, was in my opinion the best place for me to give vent to my sorrows by bitter sighs and groans and lamentations, and so I walked to and fro in my distress. Sometimes groaning and making bitter lamentations, and wishing that I had never been born, or had died in infancy, and had not lived to feel such distress of mind, for I considered affliction of mind far greater than affliction of body, and I would have rather had at that time any amount of bodily pain, than the affliction of mind I then felt, for it brought back again my old doubts and I thought how can it be possible that God has sent me, and yet suffered such things to come upon me? The devil said it cannot be so, and this I tried to believe, which added greatly to my distress, for in believing this, the Lord withdrew his Spirit from me, and I felt as though the Lord had forsaken me, and I had reason to believe my brethren had also forsaken me. These things, taking them altogether, almost drove me into despair, my feelings were such, that my groans in that place, though bitter, could not express much less can my tongue or pen, describe them. I strove to justify them that condemned me, and to think they had reason so to do, but yet on a close examination, I could not see wherein they had sufficient cause to deal with me in the manner they had. 
            But I did not see then, as plainly as I saw afterwards, that it was nothing but a trick of the devil; as about that time, if ever I was trying to serve the Lord, and faithfully to discharge my duties, since I first undertook to say anything for the Lord, I was doing it then; and if there was any change in my deportment from what it had been formerly, it was my trying more than ever to do what the Lord required of me. But men seemed to think otherwise; however I spent the day thinking of these things, which was the most sorrowfull day I ever experienced. Much of this sorrow came upon me through my doubting in what the Lord commanded me to do; for many doubts arose in my mind through the course of the day concerning it, but towards evening I tried to compose my mind a little more, and went home still feeling very much distressed in my mind until Sunday, when I was told by one whom I took to be my friend, that it was much through people's talk, that things had been done as they had; and that there was no need of them being handled as they were, and spoke some comforting words to me, which relieved me a little of my distress; yet I felt very much troubled in my mind, and it was after this, five weeks before I was called on to say anything in a public way, during which time my mind was considerably ably exercised concerning what had happened. As I could see no reason why I should be thus dealt with, but tried to keep down and be submissive, and show no rising-up spirit, so the Lord worked for me, for which I desire to give him all the glory, and honor and praise possible; and he brought the hidden things of darkness to light, and showed me how these things were, for I did not get to fully understand all the things that were laid to my charge; and who my accusers were for a considerable time after my rejection. Then the Lord brought it around that I got an idea who my friends were, and who it was through whom my rejection came, and when I came to find it was through some in whom I put the greatest confidence, and took to be my friends, it surprised and grieved me much to think I was so much deceived in those whom I placed so much confidence in. It caused me to doubt in almost all men, and nearly agree with the psalmist David, when he said, "I said in my haste all men are liars;" and I saw that too much confidence is not to be placed in any man, and that scripture I saw to be true, which sayeth "Cursed is he that trusteth in the arm of flesh, and that the man alone is blessed, who trusteth in the Lord, and whose hope is in God, in whom is no variableness nor the least shadow of turning; and he will not forsake us unless we forsake him." These words I can witness to be true; for if it had not been for the Lord, I have reasons to believe my way would have been entirely blocked up, but thanks be to God, he did stand by my poor soul to deliver me, and put it in the heart of one of his servants to stand up in my defence; who, although he had 
                  nevet
                  never
                got the right end of the tale, yet upon a little examination, he soon found out that there was no sufficient cause for my rejection; so there he, as become a christian, reproved those who had done so, for doing so without having better ground than they had for it. They could bring nothing to prove me guilty of any crime sufficient for my rejection; and the fault fell where it ought, and I was cleared from blame, for which I desire to give most humble and unfeigned thanks to God for delivering me out of the hands of those who were too strong for me. 
            But to return; after the above mentioned things took place, my mind was so much troubled, and doubts arose so much in my mind, that I made but very small progress for some time. But yet did the Lord sometimes visit me very powerfully, and gently led me along, and I began more fully to rely on the promises; and in the fall of the year, I began to go about among the brethern to quarterly meetings, and in different places. I felt much of the spirit of God which encouraged me more and more to trust in the Lord; but yet I did not trust in him as I ought, but many times wandered away far in words, thoughts, and actions, for which I was sorry when I would see it, and prayed to the Lord to pardon, and forgive me for his great love and mercy sake alone; and he heard me, and had mercy upon me, which made me love him more, and resolved to do whatever he required of me, and my way was opened gradually. 
            And the time was appointed for Brother J. T. Morgan and myself to have our trial at Wilmington, on November the 10th, 1839; at which time I went up there with fear and trembling, and though none of our home brethern accompanied me there, yet the Lord God went with me. And if I had not feared the face of man so much, I believe I would have got on better than I did, but, praised be the name of the Lord, I felt his spirit more fully on Sunday morning, than on Saturday night; and I declared unto the fathers and brethern there, that God had really sent me to warn 
                  sinnets
                  sinners
                of their danger, and to flee the wrath to come. Father Peter Spencer, preached to us a sermon suitable for the occasion, taking for his text, 2d Timothy, second chapter, 1st verse; "Thou, therefore my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus;" from which words he gave us much encouragement, and told us if we were sent of the Lord, we might expect to encounter many things, and, that it was a bitter sweet to have anything to do in a public way in Church affairs; and my prayer was that Brother J. T. Morgan, and me, might always remember the things he then told us, and treasure them up as long as we lived. Brother Morgan has some years since gone from labor to reward; after having arrived to the highest office, in the connection of which he was a member, viz.,-Elder Minister, in which he officiated for a very short period, and was then called from the field. We started together, but he soon got in the advance of me; I always considered his gifts and talents far superior to mine, and he was a very successful and powerful preacher, and has finished his work and gone home. But the Lord, for some cause or other, has left me behind until now, perhaps that I may do more for the furtherance of his great and glorious cause, and the building up of the kingdom of light on the earth; and also, that I might get better prepared and have my work fully completed. For soon after I started to serve God, it was made known to me that I had a great work to do; and, though I confess I have oft-times deviated and erred far out of the right way, and have been slothful on my journey, or I might have been further on. 
            Yet having obtained help from God, I have through much weakness, and unworthiness, continued on until now; though my trials have been many, and my conflicts have been great, and my crosses many and heavy, and I have not always borne them as I should have done, I have also labored under many embarrassments, and my troubles have been of a nature beyond human endurance, without divine assistance; that assistance, I thank God, I have generally had, or else I would ere this, have been overwhelmed with sorrow and grief from various causes; but as it is not my intention, as I have before observed, to enter at this time into a minute detail of past experience, which covering as it does. the space of nearly 33 years since my conversion, it would necessarily swell to volumes, what is only meant to be a brief sketch of my past experience, as an introduction to my feeble essay, to describe the Rise and Progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness. And, having therefore given a description of my conviction, conversion, and call to the ministry, with some other incidental remarks, in our opinion it is not expedient that we, at this time should intrude our insignificant career upon our courteous readers, and, if it is never written on earth, it will, like the acts and doings of very many much more worthy men, be recorded on high; and in due time be ready in the presence of an assembled world. So therefore, now, without going into a detail of the various places in which it has been our lot to live, and what has been our experience in them, saving to say, that many have been our sorrows and joys in them all; and like those who have preceded us in their pilgrimage to the better land, I have been made to suffer many things unjustly, and sometimes by some who should have been the last that should have caused me thus to suffer. We must here conclude this part of our narrative, and it may perhaps be our privilege and duty at some future period, to give a more minute detail of many things of which we are now necessarily silent. And if what we have, or may write, shall, in anywise be beneficial to my fellowmen in general, and more especially to my at present
                  The intelligent reader will remember, that as it is some years ago since this work was commenced, and there are many very great changes continually transpiring in these our days, it is therefore, not to be expected that the description o things as they were, will exactly correspond with what they now are in 1867; or that they will still remain as they now are, in years to come. And I am both happy and thankful to be able to record that there has been, and are still great improvements being made in the progression of light and liberty, and darkness and error are being more and more dispersed.
                  I would further call the attention of my courteous reader, to the fact that your humble servant, the author, presumes that he too has made some progress and improvement in his manner, language, and style since. The foregoing was written a number of years ago, as I doubt not the intelligent eye will readily discover, and there are some things in the former edition, described in a manner he would not now perhaps write them if it was to do over again; but as they are already written, he deems it expedient to let them remain as they are, as simplicity is not an evil that is to be 
                        dispised
                        despised
                      under all and every circumstance.
                oppressed and despised race, I shall both be happy and thankful in time and eternity, and that it may be so, kind reader, is the earnest prayer of your humble servant, the author, this being the main object he has in view. 
            
               LORENZO D. BLACKSON.
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            IN presenting to the public this weak attempt of mine to describe the Rise and Progress of the Kingdom of Light and the Kingdom of Darkness, I am aware of my inability for so important an undertaking, but a sense of duty more than any high opinion of my own ability, has caused me to make this attempt, for I am sensible that however small may be the talent which the Lord hath given unto me, yet he hath given it to me to improve, and unless I do so, I will have to give an account to him for the neglect of a known duty; therefore to my brethren and sisters in the Lord and to the public in general, do I present this little work, in the name of the Lord. And whatever may be the judgment or opinions of any concerning my doing so, yet do I appeal to the Searcher of hearts, and declare that my motives have been to glorify God. And yet though I claim not perfection of style or manner-for this could not reasonably be expected of a man whose education is as deficient as mine-yet do I claim purity of intention and purity of aim, knowing at the same time, that if the Lord had not assisted me, I should not have been able to do as well as I have, and I hope that this may have the desired effect, which is, that many who are now under the power or Abadon, may become free from his tyrannical yoke, and partake of the glorious liberty of the children of Alpha, the King of Zion. So prayeth your humble servant the author. 
            
               L. D. BLACKSON.
             
          
       
      
         
            The rise and progress of the kingdoms of light & darkness, or, The reign of Kings Alpha and Abadon 
             
                
               PART FIRST. 
               A certain King, whose power is beyond description, at a period called the beginning of time, formed a kingdom on a small part of his dominion known by the name of Earth; which, although it contains many millions of square miles, yet it is very small when compared with the whole of his dominion, which is without bounds. Now thus, as I shall proceed to tell, is the manner of his forming his kingdom: In the beginning he founded the celestial and terrestrial countries; and the celestial he called Heaven, and the terrestrial, Earth, and placed the former above the latter, which was at that time void, without comeliness or beauty, and darkness covered the face thereof. Then it pleased him, before placing his subjects in it, to command that there should be light, and there was light; he also exceedingly beautified it, dividing the land from the water, saying to the water, So far shalt thou come, but no farther; this is thy bound, and here shalt thy proud waves be stayed. He also divided the waters into great and small portions, called oceans, seas, rivers, bays, creeks, &c., and he made the land to abound with plants, herbs and trees of all kinds imaginable, and these beautiful to look upon and delicious for fruit; he also made two exceeding great lights, one far greater than the other, which, from the brilliancy of his light, caused and ruled the day. Time being equally divided between day and night, one succeeded the other, and the lesser light ruled the night, which was the time of the absence of the greater light, for he was ordained to rise and shine by day, and, retiring to the west, should set; and then there should be night, which the lesser light should rule. And besides these lights he placed many smaller lights in the firmament, and called them stars, and decreed that they with the greater lights should run their regular course, and shine on the earth only by night. All these lights, by the great wisdom and mighty power of this great King, whom I here denominate the King of Light and Glory, was set in motion, and decreed to run their regular course until time shall end. 
               So now, after setting all these things in order, he caused the waters to abound with living creatures of very many different kinds, sizes and shapes. Also in the air made he to fly many kinds of birds, beautiful and useful, and on the earth he placed all manner of beasts and creeping things, of all sizes, from the least unto the greatest. All of the above mentioned things did this great and good King do, for the benefit and comfort of his subjects, whom he was about now to place on the earth, that they might be happy and possess and enjoy all these things; and render unto him that reverence that was due to him for their existence, and for all these great bounties. So you may see, kind reader, that this great King has taken great pains to set all things in order for the prosperity of his kingdom and the comfort of his subjects, who were to be called mankind, whom he intended should possess the sea and the dry land forever, on condition of their obedience to his just laws. And now therefore to make his regard for them the more plain, he made one particular place more beautiful than all the rest; decorating it with beautiful flowers and trees, and delicious fruits of all kinds imaginable. And now therefore having formed man of the dust of the earth after his own image and in his own likeness, and having breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, so that he became a living soul, to the intent that he might live and be happy so long as the King himself lives, which is to all eternity, if proving obedient to his just command; therefore he placed him in the delightful garden, and gave unto him all the fish of the sea, and all the birds of the air, and all the beasts of the earth, and all the trees, plants and herbs that grow upon the face of the whole earth, intending that him and his posterity should enjoy this vast dominion forever, if they only proved faithful to their bountiful Maker, for they had never done anything to merit his favor. So that all of these things were given them freely through the goodness of the King of Light; though they had no right to expect them of him. So that all must agree that they ought to have paid that toleration that was due to so merciful a Prince for such great favors. But yet strange to tell, they did not do so, for both they and their children became transgressors of the righteous laws of so good a King, who intended that they never should have been removed from the land that he gave unto them, by Death, a great destroyer, whom he at length through their disobedience caused to be let loose upon them, by whose hands they and their children fell in process of time. Also he intended that they should never have felt sorrow nor pain, nor to have to toil and labor and get their bread by the sweat of their face, for he made their land to bring forth plentifully all things necessary for their support without their labor. 
               Now when the King had placed his servant man in the beautiful garden he was at first alone, but reviewing him he said that it is not good that the man should be alone, therefore he made a helpmate to be with him, to enjoy with him all the comforts of the garden and the earth; so then these two beings thus situated, stood as the heads and representatives of all the race of mankind, who was to spring from them, and people the immense regions of the earth, and be the subjects of the King of Light. So the King in order to establish his kingdom aright, made a law for his subjects, which thing was necessary, for there must needs be a King to reign, and a law to keep, and subjects to obey, in order for a kingdom to be founded; therefore the King made his law, which was a very mild one, and but few restrictions contained therein. There only being one recorded on the king's statute book, at the first which was merely of one particular tree, called the tree of knowledge of good and evil, they were commanded not to eat on the penalty of death; for the King told them that on the day they eat thereof, they should surely die. Leaving with them this law, and the power to keep it, and warning them of the awful consequences of not keeping it, he blessed them and told them to be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over all the creatures that dwelt thereon. And every tree in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed to them, he said it should be for meat. So the King saw all that he had done, that it was good, and he rested on the seventh day from all his labor, having finished this great work in six days, therefore he set the seventh apart, and ordained that it should be a day of rest for all his people forever. 
               Thus, as above stated, was his kingdom founded on earth, all things being set in order for the prosperity thereof, and leaving these two in the 
                     posession
                     possession
                   and enjoyment of all these things, he departed for a little season, giving them the opportunity to prove their love and obedience to him. 
               Now this great King had lived and reigned in his everlasting dominion on high, long before this time, for he is without beginning. And it came to pass that one of those who dwelt in the Celestial Land with him, who had been highly honored by him, and had received of his exceeding great bounty, without any merit of his own, and had been permitted to stand in his presence, and behold his glory, yea was one of them that by the King had been placed the highest in power and glory, of all them that dwelt with him in the Celestial Land Yet did this one without cause, prove treacherous to his King, and rebelled against him, intending to overthrow him and take possession of the kingdom and reign in his stead; for he was not willing to pay that homage that was due to the King, nor yet to his Son who was with him in the beginning, and helped him to build and establish all things that were made up to that time, and was therefore worthy with his Everlasting Father, to receive honor and praise, from all the creatures that he had made and placed in happiness. But this most rebellious bellious one, as the King had highly honored him, became proud, and thought himself too great to pay obedience to both the King and his Son, therefore he revolted from him and went about to influence the minds of all he could, against the King and his Righteous Government. Persuading them that he could through their assistance overthrow him and his son. Now all of them that he spoke these things to, had been placed in infinite happiness by the King, and had everything necessary for their comfort; all bestowed freely by him to them without any merit of their own, so that it is reasonable to suppose that they would not have been easily persuaded by this wicked one, to forsake the King of Light, and cleave unto him, but yet as strange as it may seem, many adhered to him, and became willing to join him in battle array against the King of Light and Glory. So having thus far now gained his vile purpose, he assembled all them that were willing to follow him and took counsel together, and finally determined to break peace and make war in the Celestial Land, where up to that time, there had never been known but peace to prevail. But now it became necessary that the King of Light should assemble his army together, to make war with, and put down this vile offender, so he called forth one of his mighty warriors whose name was Michael, and commissioned him to gather in one band, his soldiers that were in all the Celestial Land, for war was now determined against the usurper and all his wicked crew, who were all now assembled with him, and stood in readiness to fight. So the King told Michael to get such weapons from the Armory as were necessary for the battle. So the soldiers being properly equipped, at the command of the king, with Michael at their head and Gabriel also as one of their Chief Commanders, marched forward to the field of battle, where they beheld Satan, which was then the name of the usurper, with all the alien host in battle array, of whom it was demanded by Michael and those that were with him, why he had thus rebelled against the King of Light? He and 
                   
                     The meeting of Alpha and Abadon's army in the Celestial Land, Mr. Truth strikes Abadon with a Dart. 
                     page 25 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                  
                   them that were with him straightway replied, that they were no longer willing that he should reign over them; neither were they willing to pay obedience to his Son; therefore they intended to free themselves from his power and reign, independent of him, or over him and his. 
               Then replied Truth the orator of the King: "Seeing therefore, O Satan that thou hast transgressed, in rebelling against so good a King, behold thou shalt be cast out of this place of rest, where thou mightest have dwelt forever in happiness; but for this thy transgression, now shalt thou be cast into prison, a place of punishment with thy wicked crew, where ye shall be reserved in chains of darkness until the Judgment of the great day, for so has the King determined, and war is now declared against thee." With that Truth cast the first dart at Satan, which found way to his heart and made him sick, and he never was so strong as he was before. But he so far recovered as to be able to command his army, to prepare for the battle. So the command being given to both armies by their Commander in Chief, the battle was set in array, and behold Satan's army was put to flight, with great loss. Now this battle was fought hard by the City of Light from whence the alien host fled with great haste, and got them into the most remote parts of the Celestial Land. But being pursued by the army of the King, they still continued to fight, although they were put to flight in every battle. But as they had a wide range and were very wily, it was hard for them that had been their comrades, to drive them entirely out of the land, and it would not do to leave them remain anywhere in all the Celestial country. For they would continue to practice mischief and disturb the peace of the Land of happiness; also their crimes were such that justice demanded that they should not only be cast out, but punished for their transgressions. Therefore it was determined by the King that they should be cast out; and in council with his Son and Spirit, three in one, it was agreed that the Son should arm himself and go forth single handed to the field, and bring the battle speedily to a close. So he got in his chariot and rode forth into the midst of the battle, and held in his right hand thunder and lightning, and also had with him chains sufficiently many and strong to bind all the foes. And riding forth thus in majesty and great glory, the rumbling of his chariot wheels shook the whole land where they stood, and caused Satan with all his host to tremble; amongst whom he cast forth his thunders and lightning, discomfiting and wounding them. He bound them in chains and dragged them at his chariot wheels, and cast them forth from all the Celestial country into a great dungeon, which he had previously prepared for him and all his host, where they are confined; but being dark spirits, they yet roamed the air by the King's permission, but are forced to carry their punishment and dungeon with them, whithersoever they go. And now being cast down from their former lofty habitation over the battlements of Heaven, they conspired together, taking council, to see what way they best could avenge themselves on their great Conqueror. So therefore being assembled in conference together after much deliberation it was unanimously agreed that it would be best to not attempt to face their dreaded foe again in battle array, or yet to meet his shining army of flaming warriors by whom they had been put to flight in the Celestial land. But as they had understood that he had formed creatures that he called man, who were a little lower than they were before they fell, and they were them that stood yet, having been made weaker than the inhabitants of the Celestial land, and as it was understood they were free agents, being left to their own free will to do whatsoever they would, good or evil, to attack them in some way or other, would be safer than any other manner that they could adopt, and would be most likely to meet with success. It was therefore determined that the attack should be made on them by either force, persuasion or deception; and as they knew that man was exceedingly well-beloved by 
                   
                     King Alpha enters the field in a fiery Chariot, discomfits his foes, with thunder and lightning. 
                     page 26 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                  
                   their Sovereign, it would be very 
                     grevious
                     grievous
                   to him, for them to disobey him, and yield obedience to his enemies. Satan who was now called the King of Darkness, and Abadon having been the first to revolt against the King of Zion, was considered the most suitable person for this great undertaking. He then went forth in search of the place where they dwelt, and finding the earth, he soon found the delightful garden wherein he entered, and in order to conceal his purposes from them, being a spirit, he emerged himself into a beast called the serpent, that was more subtle than any other beast of the field, and whom they would therefore be more likely to hearken unto. Now the last one that was placed in the garden by the King, was the female, and was weaker in body and mind than her male companion; therefore the King of Darkness attacked her first, inquiring whether the King of Light allowed them to eat of all the trees of the garden, to which she replied, of all the trees of the garden they might freely eat except one, and their King had strictly forbidden them to eat thereof, telling us that the day we eat thereof we should surely die. She knew not that it was their greatest foe to whom she was talking, and that his aim was to destroy their happiness forever, and bring them in subjection to him instead of their rightful sovereign. Then did this vilest of the vile one, speak through the subtle serpent and dared to contradict the words of the Almighty and great and good King, who had once conferred upon him the exceeding great honor of dwelling in his glorious presence and enjoying exquisite happiness, and which his own wickedness alone had now deprived him of. Saith he, ye shall not surely die, for your King doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good from evil. Then did this subject of the wondrous King of the highest Heaven, believe the words spoken by the King of the bottomless pit through the subtle serpent, in preference to those spoken by this kind and good Sovereign who had placed them in the garden, and given them freely all the things that were then on all the earth, with the exception of this one tree, which the King of Darkness told the female would make them wise, and bring them more upon an equality with their King, his Son and Spirit; then did she contrary to the just command of their most exceeding kind and good King, put forth her hands and partook of the fruit of the tree of which he had forbidden them to eat, and she did eat and gave unto her male companion, who loving her, received it at her hands and did also eat. Then was the law of this good King broken, and their eyes were opened, so that they beheld their own shame and nakedness, which was far from being the intention for which they had eaten the fruit, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons to hide their nakedness. Now it came to pass, that in the cool of the day after they had thus transgressed, they heard the voice of the King of Light as he walked in the garden. But now, alas, it was not with them as heretofore, for they once could have been glad to see and hear him, and went forth with joy to meet him at his coming, but now it was far otherwise with them, for they knew they had disobeyed his just command, and therefore they were afraid and ashamed to meet him, and did themselves from his presence amongst the trees of the garden. Then did the King call unto the male, saying unto him, Adam, for that was his name, where art thou? Then said he, I heard thy voice in the garden and was afraid, and hid myself because I was naked! Then spoke the King, to his disobedient subject, saying, who told thee that thou was naked, hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee not. Then instead of confessing his fault, he began to make excuse, saying the helpmate thou hast given to be with me, she gave unto me, and I did eat. Thus accusing his Sovereign of being the cause of his transgression, by giving him his helpmate, and laying the blame chiefly on her. He signified that had she not been given unto him, he would not have broken the law. Then did the King inquire of the other, why she had done so? She also began to make excuse, saying the serpent beguiled me, and I did eat. Then said he to the serpent, because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all the beasts of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life. And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head and thou shall bruise his heel. And unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. And unto the man he said, because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree of which I commanded thee not to eat; therefore cursed is the ground for thy sake, in sorrow shalt thou eat thereof all the days of thy life, thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth unto thee, and in the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou returneth unto the ground, for out of it was thou taken, for dust thou art and unto dust shalt thou return. 
               So now gentle reader, you plainly may discover how greatly these two had transgressed, in breaking the just laws of such a kind sovereign, who had favored them so greatly, yet although they had thus transgressed, he did not deal with them as their crime deserved, but had mercy upon them, and suffered them to still remain on his earthly dominion; but not to enjoy the exceeding great pleasure and happiness he had intended them to enjoy, had they kept his Righteous Law, but now as they had broken it, he in justice to himself drove them out of the delightful garden in which he had placed them, and which their own disobedience alone had now deprived them of. Therefore as they had now become alienated from the King of Light and subject to the law of Sin and Death, which was the law of the King of Darkness, who had allured them from their rightful Sovereign, intending thereby to establish his dark kingdom on earth which is the realm of the King of Light and Glory. Then did the King of Light appoint his servant Conscience as a dictator to them, to remind them of their duty to him their rightful Sovereign. So Mr. Conscience made known to them how greatly they had sinned, in breaking the just laws of their most merciful King. He also showed them that it would have been just in their Prince to have not only driven them out of the garden, but off of the face of the earth, and confined them in prison, bound in chains of darkness, to dwell for endless ages. And yet he did not so deal with them, but gave them the earth and the fullness thereof to possess, both they and their children after them, for whom he yet had a tender regard, and intended to make them completely happy on condition of future obedience, which he signified when he made the promise that the seed of woman should bruise the serpent's head, who was the one that beguiled the woman to break the King's decree, and who still did desire them and their offspring to continue in disobedience to their King, which he too far succeeded in doing. But the promise that was made by the Eternal King of the highest Heavens in due season, was fulfilled to the great joy and comfort of his faithful servants who were not yet born. So after Conscience had showed them their very great error in disobeying their King, they humbled themselves, and were glad that their kind Sovereign had not forsaken them utterly, and left them entirely in the hands of their grand adversary, who had strove to ruin them and all their offspring, who was to inhabit the earth, and be the subjects of the King of Light. Now these two were yet alone, but it had been decreed by their King that from them there should be a very numerous race, to inhabit the face of the earth. Accordingly they began to multiply, and their first offspring were two sons, and as their parents had lost the nature of the King of Light, through their disobedience, and partook of the nature of the King of Darkness, so it was natural for them also to partake of the same nature, and in process of time, as they began to approach to manhood, the first being a tiller of the ground, the other a keeper of sheep, they both brought forth their offering to the King of Light. The older of the fruit of the earth, the younger of the firstling of the flock. The first adhering to the King of Darkness brought not his sacrifice with a perfect heart, therefore it was not accepted, but the other cleaving to the King of Light, brought his with a perfect heart, and it was accepted. The older of these two was named Cain, his brother's name was Abel. Cain was offended because his brother's sacrifice was accepted and his was not; then did the King of Light condescend to converse with him on the subject, and said if thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? but if thou doest evil sin liest at thy door. All of this did not suffice to please him, and his countenance was sullen from tine to time, until it came to pass that, as he and his brother were together in the field, he arose against him and slew him. The King beholding from his Throne what was done, said forthwith unto Cain, where is thy brother Abel; he answered and said. I know not, am I my brother's keeper? Thus agreeing with the King of Darkness, who was a liar from the beginning, and the Father of lies. But he could not deceive the Allwise King of Light, who saw him when he committed the deed, and knew all about it, for his eyes are over all things; nothing can be hid from him. He said unto him, what hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground, and now art thou cursed from the earth, which has opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hands; therefore when thou tillest the ground it shall not henceforth yield unto thee its strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be on the earth. Then did he begin to see he had sinned greatly, and he began to entreat the favor of the King, confessing his sin, and saying that his punishment was greater than he could bear, and lamenting all that the King had said should come upon him, so that great as his crime was, the King had compassion on him, and said, whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him seven fold; so he put a mark upon him, lest any finding him should slay him, so he went out from the King's presence and dwelt in another part of the earth, and there his children increased and became very numerous. But they hearkened to the King of Darkness and became subject to him, forsaking the King of Light. The other children of his Father cleaved more to their rightful Sovereign, so that there became, as you, reader, may see, two kingdoms, namely: the Kingdom of Light, and the Kingdom of Darkness. 
               Now kind reader, you may plainly see that the glorious King of Light and Glory, has taken great pains to set all things in order for the comfort of the inhabitants of his Kingdom. So that in the beginning they lacked nothing to make them completely happy; and what they now lacked was not according to his will, but they had brought it on, by their own disobedience; yet he bestowed his bounty largely upon them that served him not, but instead to his and their own enemy. Now this King of Darkness, whom many of them were so foolish as to serve, had never done them any good, but on the contrary much evil, for through obeying him, they had brought on all the troubles they suffered; so that now it 
                     it
                     is
                   easy to determine which of these Kings it is best to serve, whether the King of Light, from whence flows all good, or the King of Darkness from whom all evil comes. I hope dear reader, that you will make up your mind speedily if you have not already done so, to serve the glorious King of Light. Now to you it may seem strange, that those of whom we are speaking, did not serve him, but strange as it may seem, the chief part of them rebelled against him. But the children of the Kingdom of Darkness increased greatly in the land, and filled the earth with violence. The King of Light saw that the wickedness of man was great, and the thoughts of his heart were to do evil, and therefore he repented that he had made him, and placed him on the earth, and it grieved him sore at his heart; therefore he said he would destroy man whom he had created off of the earth; both man and beast, and creeping things, and fowls of the air, for it repents me that I have made them. 
               Now amongst the numerous inhabitants of the earth, there was only one man found just and upright and perfect in his generation, and he feared and obeyed the King of Light, and found grace in his King's eyes, who now commanded him to build an Ark of wood for the saving of himself and family; for he intended in justice to himself, to destroy those who had rebelled against him, from off of the face of the earth. So this good man in obedience to his King's command moved with fear, prepared an Ark as his King directed him, believing that what his King had said he would perform, and that thereby he would please his King, and condemn his King's enemies that had rebelled against him. Now when he had finished building the Ark, and the time appointed had fully come for the Great and Mighty King of Light to pour out his wrath upon his foes, then commanded he this just one, with his wife and children to come into the Ark, and also two of all manner of birds, beasts, and creeping things, to be kept from the destruction that he was about to bring on the earth. This man whose name was Noah, and two and two of every living creature that moveth on the face of the earth, and fowls of the air, obeyed the King and went to the Ark to be kept alive, and after they had entered, and he King himself had closed up the doors, he broke open the fountains of the great deep, and unloosed the bottles of Heaven, and by water sent swift destruction upon the transgressors of his righteous law. But he remembered his servant and them that were with him in the Ark, so that when he had finished, and made an end of destroying all but them, then did he command the waters to abate, and the Ark rested on dry land. Then he commanded his faithful servant, his wife, his children, and all the creatures that went into the Ark to be kept alive to come forth. He then blessed him, and told him to multiply even as he did his first servant, and gave him dominion over all the beasts of the earth, the fowls of the air, and the fish of the sea, and the whole earth and the fullness thereof. Also he gave him a Law to keep, as he intended to form his kingdom again on the earth. Now his law was very mild, even as his first law was, for he did not forbid him the use of any thing that was on earth, but gave him all the good things of life, to possess them freely, both himself and his children after him, unto whom he intended on condition of obedience, to give all that their forefathers through transgression had lost. 
               In his law he strictly forbid them to take the life of their fellow men as Cain did his brother. And if they proved obedient to him on earth, he intended that they never should be removed from the land. That he would give unto them the Celestial Country, where he had greater things in store for them, than what their Fathers had ever enjoyed. In that delightful and happy country, it is truly said, that sickness, sorrow, pain nor death are felt and feared no more; and there the glorious King of Light himself dwells in all his beauty, and by his presence fills that happy land with everlasting joy. But at this time he did not make these things so fully known as he did to the generation that came after them, neither did he require so much of them, as he did of them, for as yet he had not opened the highway to the Celestial Country, in which a wayfaring man, though a fool need not err therein. This being what was called a dark dispensation and but little given to them, therefore but little was required of them; and if they had done that little, their kind Sovereign would have received them to himself. But the race of this just man, who was saved in the Ark, in the process of time, as little as was required of them, they refused to do it, and in opposition to the will of their King, they began to build an exceeding high tower, whose top they intended should reach up to the Celestial Country, where their King dwelt, as his city lay far above them. This being contrary to his will, he therefore came down to see the city and tower, which the children of men built, and then confounded he their language, that they could not understand each other. This he done to cause them to refrain from building this rebellious city, and he scattered them abroad over the face of earth; yet did they continue rebellious against him, although he had done so much for them, and but very few continued faithful to their rightful Sovereign, but served the King of Darkness, who had caused the destruction of their forefathers who had obeyed him rather than the King of Light. Now this wicked King of Darkness had moved them to build this rebellious city, intending himself to reign over it, and having now laid the foundation of his city and kingdom on earth, he succeeded in gaining most of our Heavenly King's subjects, who had and did still receive their sustenance and comfort from the King of Light, who had not yet laid the foundation of his glorious city of Zion, over which he was to reign on the earth, and gather his obedient servants within the walls thereof. But now the King of Darkness built his city of Babylon, and established his kingdom there in the land of Darkness, before the walls of Zion were built. 
               I will now attempt to describe some of the conditions of the Kingdom of Darkness. As has already been stated, he through fraud and deception caused a revolt of Zion's sons, from their rightful King and Sovereign, who had bestowed such great gifts and rewards on them. So now the King of Darkness, assumed the position of a rival to the King of Light and Glory, and made laws in direct opposition to his, and offered rewards that he was neither willing nor able to give unto all of them who would keep his Laws. He therefore appointed one of his chief officers whose name is Untruth, to proclaim throughout the earth, that he would give greater reward than the King of Light, and that they would be more happy in his service, than they could possibly be in serving the King of Light. This falsehood did Untruth proclaim to men, even to the servants of Light, and as false as this report was, very many believed it, and engaged in serving the King of Darkness, and were led captive by him at his will to the city of Babylon, and the land of sin and darkness, where he had rulers that he appointed to rule over them, each in their different degrees. The two chiefs are named the World and the Flesh; these two are next in power to the King of Babylon himself. Under these are many others who hold offices and rule in Sin and Abadon's kingdom. The three next highest in power, are Lust of the Flesh, Pride of Life, and Lust of the Eye. These all hold high offices, and have great power over all of those that are subject to the King of Darkness. Also his servants Deceit and Deception, are constantly employed by him to deceive all that they can, and bring them under subjection to their King and thereby establish his Kingdom, and make it strong. 
               And besides these there were many more who are near kinsmen to Abadon, which is the name of the King of Babylon; and of course held in great estimation by him. They all under Abadon's chiefs are constantly employed to lead captive and bring into bondage, the servants of Alpha, who is the King of Zion, and also to keep them in bondage. Some of those rulers' names I will here proceed to mention viz: Anger, who is one of his champions, and does great work for his King; Malice, who has great power and does much for Abadon; Revenge, also who is one of his chief counsellors, and through him he does all his work. Through his counsel he undertook the destruction of mankind! Through his counsel he laid the foundation of his Kingdom on earth! Through his counsel, he uses every means he possibly can to bring men into his kingdom, and forever keep them in bondage! In short, through his counsel, he would if he could, remove King Alpha from his Almighty Throne, and would himself sway the sceptre and set thereon. But his power though mighty is far from being almighty, for that power belongs to the glorious King of Zion alone, who sets and will forever set highly exalted over him. This Abadon very well knows, yet all he can do by the advice of his great counsellor Revenge he does; now when Abadon in the Celestial Land had rebelled against the King of Light and Glory, who had placed him there in happiness, and Almighty Alpha in justice had cast him out from dwelling with him in happiness, did Abadon choose this Revenge for his counsellor, and so continues to do even until this day, and through his advice and that of his bold companion Malice, Abadon still continues to do great havoc among the children of men, of which I perhaps may say more before I am done, for I have much more to say in defence of the justice of King Alpha, in all that he has done for, and to the children of men, professing myself to be a servant of his, but have not been, and am not, as faithful as I might and ought to be, for I have also received of his great bounty, and am very much indebted to him, but I do intend to be more faithful to my rightful Sovereign, and do more for him and the establishment of his kingdom on earth, and I do humbly beseech him to let one of those who are continually with him, be with me always, to remind me of my duty to him; and also that he himself will be with me, for without him I can do nothing, but through him I can do all things, and overcome Abadon and all his forces. For when they thickly beset and compass about the sons of Light, and they cry unto their King, he comes to their relief and disperses their enemies by the brightness of his coming, and brings them out victorious conquerors through his love for them. And it is only them that are not willing for him to reign over them, that are led captive by Abadon into sin, as has been before mentioned through the false proclamation of Untruth, Abadon's chief orator. Very many had believed his falsehood, and became dissatisfied with the mild government of the great and good King Alpha, and became unwilling that he should any longer reign over them, therefore did they revolt from under him, and yield themselves subjects to obey Abadon, and were led captive by his two Commanders in chief, the World and the Flesh, and his three Generals, the Lust of the Flesh, the Lust of the Eye, and the Pride of Life, who with their confederates bound them in chains, and led them captive to Babylon, where they became subject to the law of Sin and Death, who are Kings under Abadon, and rule and sway their sceptre in his whole dominion; and all that are subject to Abadon, must need be subject to them also. Now, these two great tyrants did agree with each other in trying to bring destruction on the children of men. And although they agree in their dispositions, yet they differ in their appearances, for Sin to the eye looks very beautiful and alluring, that is, to the temporal eye, but to the spiritual eye, his looks are quite the reverse; but they that are led captive by the before mentioned ones, their spiritual eyes are always shut, so that they cannot see sin in its right color, for they are blinded by Abadon, who is called the God of this world. So therefore they viewed sin as being very beautiful and delightful, as being worthy of their utmost respect and homage. He is therefore by them highly honored, and held in adoration. And he, on his part, to make himself the more honorable in their esteem, decorates himself with gold and silver and all manner of precious stones and jewels, and things pleasant to the eye, and alluring to the mind. All of these things he offers to give freely to them that faithfully serve him, and for this cause he holds them out to view, and engages them in their pursuit, promising them that in the enjoyment of them, there is much more happiness than there is in the service of King Alpha. This they believe, for sin puts no restraints on them in going into all the ways that their carnal inclination leads them to go; and tells them that it is no matter how they get the things he offers to view, whether honest or dishonest, so they get them. Therefore they go greedily on in the service of Sin, until they are stung to the heart with his sting, for although he has to them so beautiful an appearance, yet he carries with him a dreadful sting. This he keeps concealed from their view, for if they could get a sight of his sting they would not so faithfully serve him. But as the light of Zion had not yet come, they, in the days of darkness, could not see his dreadful sting nor awful deformity, for these things were kept hid long after the establishment of Babylon; but those that were the most subject to sin, even they, with his sting received the most severe wound. Death, the other King who carries a dreadful dart, always plunges it the deepest into the wound that sin has made. Now Death, as has already been said is in disposition like unto sin, yet he cannot like sin hide his dismal appearance and awful deformity. But wheresoever he makes his appearance he has to appear in his true color, and he being a monster of very grim and dismal appearance, especially to them who are subject to sin, and although they are his subjects, and under his dominion, yet they do not like to look upon him, but dread the very appearance of him, for he always has his dreadful dart in hand, high lifted up ready to give the fatal blow. And he has no compassion on any, neither will tears, nor groans, nor cries, prevent him from letting his dreadful dart fly on all them that he is permitted; but it is only by the permission of the Almighty Alpha that he dare let it fly on any, for the wise and good King of Zion, delights not in the death of any, but rather that they should return to him and live. Therefore does he withold death many times from throwing his dart, for them that he strikes with his dart, can never return to their rightful King again; but before they are struck, they have opportunity if they will, to return to him and live, and many invitations has he given them to return to him, and he will receive them and pardon them for all their rebellion against him; yet through the advice of king Sin, whom they love, they will not come. Now although they love Sin, yet they do not love Death, the wages of sin, for sin is the employer, and death is the paymaster, and his wages are such as man cannot live by, and none that are subject to sin, would be subject to death if they could avoid it; but it cannot be avoided, for sin and death are so closely connected together, that, whosoever are subject to sin, must also be under the power of death. For sin has the sting of death, and the strength of sin is the law, even the law of King Alpha, for sin, through giving laws quite contrary to his became strong, and had so much more the power over all that was subject to sin; and so Sin when he had finished establishing his and Abadon's kingdom, and made his laws quite contrary to the good and wholesome laws of King Alpha, then did sin bring forth death, and so death became a King over all mankind, for all had agreed with sin and come short of the glory of their true Sovereign. Yet not all in so large a degree, for some were more, and some were less under the power of sin. Nevertheless death reigned over all mankind, even over them that had not sinned, after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who was the first that yielded himself subject to sin, and brought in death upon all of his posterity. And so death prevailed until his conqueror and destroyer came, who was appointed by the mighty King Alpha, when sin had first prevailed over man to break his righteous law, of which I expect to say more hereafter, if death by my King is not suffered to throw his dart, which I trust to me, is now robbed of his sting, before I finish this work, which I believe to be a duty enjoined on me, by my good and merciful King. 
               But to proceed. The Kingdom of Sin and Death was established on earth, and these two Kings reigned and held men under great bondage and tyranny until their conqueror came. For now, as the great King Alpha beheld from his lofty Throne, for he sees all things, that men were in a lamentable case, and beheld there was none to save, he wondered, and his own arm brought Salvation unto him, and he laid help on one that was mighty, of which one much is to be said; for he was the seed of the woman, that was to bruise the serpent's head. Now this mighty one was in the beginning with King Alpha, for they both were one, and he thought it not a robbery to be called equal with him, for he was his Son, therefore his name is Alpha. And as it had been decreed in the beginning that he should deliver all men from under the power of Abadon, that was willing to renounce him, and all his works, and to destroy the kingdom of sin and death, and to establish his own peaceable kingdom on earth, now therefore, when the fullnes of time had come, he laid aside his Crown and left his Father's Throne, and came and dwelt among men, for although he was Supreme Lord and Sovereign over all, yet he came down from his lofty Throne and made himself equal with man, and took upon himself the form of a servant that he might restore men, who were his rebellious subjects, to that happy estate from which they through transgression, had fell. Now he made his first appearance amongst them, in a very lowly manner even in a manger, therefore he was looked lightly upon by the high and great ones of the earth, and also by the most of the low ones, although they were placed on the earth by him, and all the things they possessed were made and given unto them by him. For all things were made by Him, and without him there was nothing made, that was made, yet they served Him not, for so unjust were they, that they did not like to retain Him in their thoughts. For he came unto his own and his own received him not, but as many as did receive him, to them gave he power to become the children of His Father, even to them that believed in his name, for His Father for his name sake, promised pardon to all of them that hath rebelled against him, if they will return to him from their rebellion, and believe in His Son whom he hath sent into the world; for his name is the only name given amongst men, whereby they can be saved. From their lost condition therefore, this great and Mighty conqueror made his appearance to save and deliver man from the awful situation in which he had placed himself. So dreadful was their case that nothing less than an Almighty Arm could save them. Such was their Merciful Captain Alpha, who came to enlist soldiers to fight against all the powers of Abadon, who had led them captive at his will. The great King came in a very meek and lowly manner, taking upon himself the form of a servant, and the nature of his frail creature man, sin only excepted. He according to the promise, was made of a woman, being born as an infant, and therefore he is called the seed of the woman. Now when he made his appearance amongst men, there was rejoicing in Heaven, and some of the shining ones that waited on Him in his glorious kingdom, were sent when he was born to announce his coming, and made proclamation to some poor shepherds who watched their flock by night, being lowly seated on the ground, and some of the rays of Light and Glory of the great King of Zion and his Almighty Father, shone around on this most important occasion. And as the feeble shepherds were sore afraid, the arch angel said, to comfort them, fear not, for behold I bring you glad tidings of great joy, which shall be to you and all people, for unto you this day is born in the city of David a Saviour, who is Christ the Lord, and this shall be a sign unto you. This David had been a great warrior of King Alpha, and had fought many battles, and gained many victories over the enemies of his King, and because he was a mighty man of valor, and one after the Great King Alpha's own heart, he had appointed him King over his own temporal kingdom Zion, and had built a city called Bethlehem; in this city Almighty Alpha had decreed and appointed that his Son, the great Messiah, in an infant's form should make his first appearance amongst men, and be considered of the house and lineage of his valiant servant David. 
               Therefore, agreeable to the King's decree, the great King's messenger told them in that city, that they should find the infant Messiah wrapped in swaddling cloth and lying in a manger. For by this name he is also known; and I may perhaps more frequently speak of him by that name hereafter, in writing of the wondrous feats he came to do and did do. But to return, while the Celestial Messenger was delivering his message to the astonished shepherds, be hold suddenly there appeared with him a multitude of the Celestial host, praising their mighty King and saying, "Glory to his name in the highest, and peace and goodwill towards men." And it came to pass, as the Celestial beings had gone away from them into Heaven, the shepherds said one to another, let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which is to come to pass, which King Alpha has now made known to us. So they came with haste and found the mighty King in the form of an infant, lowly lying in a manger with Mary his mother, to whom was given the highest honor that could be conferred upon woman, insomuch, that the King's herald had by his express commission, cried unto her, "Hail! thou that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee; Blessed art thou amongst women," he being clothed in some of the brightness of the King's glory. When she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. Then said the mighty herald unto her, fear not Mary, for thou hast found favor with the most high, and behold thou shall conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and thou shall call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the most high shall give unto him the Throne of his Father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end." But she being a virgin, thought it strange that she should bring forth a son, having never knew any man; but Gabriel, for that was the King's messenger's name, answered her; "The Spirit and power of the most High shall come upon her and over-shadow her, therefore should the Holy thing that should be born of her be called the Son of the Most High God, and King of the Universe." The shepherds came and found the infant lying with her, who was ordained to bring him forth, and with him that was the espoused husband of her that brought the infant Messiah forth, and when they had saw him, with joy they made known abroad the saying that was told them concerning this child. And all them that heard it, wondered at those things that were told them by the shepherds. 
                
               I have now in a feeble manner, set forth the coming and appearance of the great Messiah among his subjects on earth. It had been decreed and proclaimed by his Almighty Father, ages before his coming, that when he did come, there should be one ordained to be his forerunner, who should go before him in the wilderness and cry, and proclaim unto men that they should prepare the way of their great King, and make his path straight. Every valley should be filled up, every mountain shall be made level, and the crooked places should be made straight, and the rough ways should be made smooth, and all flesh see the salvation of their great King. This messenger as had been decreed, made his appearance to announce that the great Messiah had now come; there had also been a shining one sent before from the Celestial City, to make it known to some that he was to be the King's messenger. When the fullness of time had come, he made his proclamation of the King's message in the wilderness, and there a great multitude came unto him, to know what their offended Sovereign would have them to do in order that they might gain his favor and be saved from his vindictive wrath. Now, his mission was to baptise them with water, and to preach that it should be done for the remission of their sins and transgression against their rightful Sovereign. This water baptism, was in token of their being cleansed from all their uncleanness, so that they might be acceptable in the sight of our gracious King, when they should come to stand before him. For they were full of uncleanness, and could never in that state, be acceptable in his sight. Therefore this great messenger of the Great King, in fulfilling his course proclaimed unto men, that they should repent of their transgressions and rebellion against the just laws of their rightful Sovereign, and that on condition of their doing so, that he would forgive them of their offences, for the sake of his Son Messiah, whom his messenger came to bear witness of, that he was the only name through which they could be saved from the wrath of their justly offended King. And as there was a great multitude of all classes of transgressors came unto him, to be baptised in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins and transgressions against their dreaded Sovereign, when he saw among the number many Pharisees and Saducees that came to his baptism, he cried unto them: "O ye generation of vipers, who has warned you to flee from the wrath to come; bring forth therefore fruit, meet for repentance, and think not to say within yourselves, we have Abraham for our Father. For I say unto you that the great King is able, of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham," Now this Abraham had been a very faithful servant to the great, good, and mighty King of Zion, insomuch that the King had called him his friend, and entitled him the Father of all that should afterwards faithfully serve him. Therefore these Pharisees claim him for their Father, though they have not done the deeds of Abraham, but done things after the deeds of the old serpent, the Devil. Therefore, did he call them a generation of vipers, having thereby an allusion, that they by their deeds had chosen the old serpent for their Father. It was therefore, very needful that he should demand of them the fruits that bespoke sincere repentance; for that alone was the way, through believing in the Messiah, that they could be regenerated and brought into the family of the King, and the household of his most faithful servants, whom he had now come to build up, and to establish his great and glorious kingdom, for which cause he had sent his messenger before his face, who was now proclaiming unto men, that his kingdom was at hand. The King of Darkness had long reigned over the children of men, and held them in great bondage, but the time having come that he should no longer reign over them, but that his kingdom should be destroyed, and that the great Messiah's kingdom should be built on the ruins thereof. Therefore, in the ushering in of the great and glorious Messiah's kingdom, this messenger was sent forth to let them know that the King himself was about to appear personally amongst them his rebellious subjects, to lay down conditions of reconciliation, between them and his justly offended Father, whose wrath he had come now to appease. The time now being fully expired, and the fullness of time having come, great Alpha the mighty Messiah, who is also called the Prince of Peace, the Everlasting Father, the Mighty Counsellor, and the Mighty God, came to his messenger, and had an interview with him concerning the great and most important work which he had left his Father's house to do, and in order to set the example, he himself became subject to his Father's law, and fulfilled it in all points, and in order to do this, he came to his servant to be baptised of him; but his servant considering his greatness and majesty, made his humble apology, saying that there was more need that he should be baptised of him, than he should baptise him. But the King told him to suffer it to be so now, for thus it become them to fulfill all his Father's righteous law. Therefore he yielded for it to be done, and straightway as soon as the Messiah was baptised, he went up out of the water, and the spirit of the mighty Father ascended and descended like a dove in bodily shape on him; and a voice came down from his Father, saying: "This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. 
               Now the great King had told his messenger, that on whomsoever he should see these things take place, that he was his chosen one, ordained and sent forth by him in a lamb like innocence to take away the sins of the world, and to deliver men from under the power of the law of sin and death, and from the Kingdom of Darkness, which is Abadon's, into the marvelous light and the glorious kingdom of his dear Son, whom he had now sent to gain a victory over sin, death, hell, and the grave, and lead captivity captive, and give gifts to men. His forerunner bore witness of him, confessing himself only baptised with water unto repentance; but him that come after him was mightier than he, that the same should baptise with fire and with the Holy Ghost, who was co-equal with the Father, and whose fan was in his hand, and he would thoroughly cleanse his flour and gather his wheat into his garner, but the tares would he burn with unquenchable fire, meaning those who would continue in rebellion against him. This messenger of his Father sent before him, although the greatest of them that was born of woman. yet confessed himself unworthy to stoop down and unloose the latches of his shoes, and at one time when he saw him coming towards him, he cried out in the hearing of them that stood around, "Behold the lamb of the great King his Father, that takes away the sins of the world." So this great Prince having equalized himself with his subjects, and taking on himself the form of a servant, began first himself personally to proclaim to men, the glad tidings whereby they might be freed from bondage, and be brought into the glorious liberty of the children of his Father. For as I have before said, they in the beginning, were made in the image of his Father, and after his own likeness, so that they were called the children of his Father, but they now through transgression and disobedience had wandered far from him, and had lost his holy nature, and had become aliens from his household, and strangers to his family, and foreigners to the commonwealth of his glorious kingdom of Zion. In this awful and lamentable condition, he found them no longer his willing subjects, but the slaves and subjects to the three tyrannical kings, viz: Abadon, Sin, and Death, who reigned over them in the Land of Darkness and City of Babylon, which city was thickly inhabited by them. The walls of Zion, the great city of mighty Alpha, through the treachery of those who had once inhabited it, had become torn down, and but few remained in it, and those few were faithful to their rightful Sovereign. Them therefore the great king Messiah collected together, and gave directions for the rebuilding of the walls of Zion, which had been torn down; he himself laying the strong foundation thereof with his own hands, so that it could not be removed, but should stand forever; and he also provided good substantial material terial for them that should build thereon to build with, and commanded them to take heed how they built, and what they built with, for every man's work should be tried by fire, and if his work did not stand, he himself should suffer loss. It was needful to build with such materials as fire could not destroy, and that could not by any means be removed, for the city was to stand forever, and the walls thereof no more to be torn down. So king Messiah, the great Prince of Peace, stood on the foundation of the walls of Zion which he had laid, and himself first lifted up the Gospel trumpet which was blown aloud, and called all those that were afar off, and those that were near at hand to come to him, and those that were weary he would give them rest, and those that were heavy laden he would remove the load. And he invited them to try his yoke upon themselves for it is easy, and his burden for it is light, and they should find rest for their souls, for there were many who were weary of the heavy load and burden which Abadon and his officers had put upon them, and his galling yoke was to them too intolerable to bear. Therefore the great and good king Messiah made this very kind offer to relieve them if they would come unto him; and also he proclaimed unto them by the loud sound of the Gospel trumpet, that he would deliver them from under the tyrant kings, Sin, and Death, who with Abadon had so heavily burdened them, that unless they were delivered therefrom they must surely die. In kindness and great mercy, king Messiah proclaimed unto them, that if they would come unto him, and yield themselves subject to obey his mighty Father, who was their rightful Sovereign, they should not die, but live forever. 
               But to return; soon after his appearance among men, he choose twelve men to be his followers and disciples, to whom he made known his intentions and determination concerning the rebuilding of the broken walls of Zion, and the establishment of his kingdom, of his laws, and decrees unto his subjects. Now he ordered them, after having himself first laid the chief corner stone to build, laying twelve strong foundations to the city, for he intended before the city was fully completed to make war against the tyrants Sin, Death, Hell, and the Grave, and overcome them, and bring them into subjection, and set the captives free from the bondage which they had brought them under. But he was first to do many wonderful works among men, and suffer many things from his rebellious subjects, so he went through and amongst them, proclaiming by the loud sound of the gospel trumpet his will concerning them; he also gave unto his twelve chosen ones gospel trumpets, and commissioned them to blow aloud, and let the dead hear that the glory of the great Messiah had risen upon Zion, and her light had come. Now those that were under the power of Abadon, the King of Darkness and his colleagues, were called the Dead, for they were truly dead, for sin and death reigned over them. But the glorious and mighty King of Light, the great Messiah, had declared by his own mouth, that the hour was coming, and now was, that the dead should hear the voice of the Son of his mighty Father, which son was himself; and they that heard should live, for he had such power that he could speak the dead to life, whether it was a natural or a spiritual death, for there were two kinds of death. He also gave unto his chosen ones power to raise the dead, and do many great miracles, even as he himself had done; for king Messiah did many great wonders, such as had never been done before by any living man; for he healed all manner of diseases; giving sight to the blind; feet to the lame; ears to the deaf; and causing the dumb to speak; casting out devils; which in obedience to Abadon, had entered into many men to trouble and torment them. But Messiah having come to destroy the works of darkness with power, therefore commanded He them to come out, and they had to obey. For although they were called the strong men that had taken possession of the palace, yet was king Messiah stronger than either they or their king; and therefore bound the strong man, and cast him out, and took possession of the palace. All of these things did king Messiah do, to convince all men that his holy Father, himself, and the holy Spirit, the great three in one, were alone their rightful Sovereign, whom they in justice ought to obey; but yet strange to tell, so hard and corrupt had their hearts become, that they were not willing to have him reign over them; choosing rather death than life, darkness than light, bondage than freedom; finally, preferring Abadon, the tyrannical king of Babylon, to Alpha, the merciful king of Zion. But yet there were some who heard the glorious sound of the gospel trumpet and obeyed, and arose from the dead, and came and enlisted under the blood stained banner of king Messiah, and were willing to fight under him against the power of darkness, and to be led by him to certain victory. Therefore great king Alpha took with him his mighty orator Truth, whom he had brought from his Father's throne, to be his constant companion and spokesman, for through him he proclaimed his will unto his rebellious subjects; in company with him therefore, and his twelve chosen ones, he took tours around amongst some of his most rebellious subjects, to whom he had entrusted the most, yea, whom he had appointed rulers, and officers, and stewards over his household goods, to make known his laws and decrees unto men, and to distribute his bounty amongst them, and to give every man his portion of meat in due season; and had also left his laws and records with them, and given them directions how to proceed in the affairs of his kingdom, until he himself should come and give further directions for the perfecting of his kingdom of Zion. These men having their king's law before them, and his express command given unto them, was so much the more guilty of transgression, as they neither kept it themselves, nor made it known unto others; but they had altogether gone astray, and had 
                     greviously
                     grievously
                   rebelled against King Alpha, and had become subjects to Abadon, and kept his law, instead of their rightful Sovereign. Yet so exceedingly 
                   
                     King Alpha, Mr. Truth, and the first chosen Gospel trumpeters. 
                     page 50 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                  
                   ingly merciful was our gracious King Alpha, that he paid them a visit of mercy, instead of one of vengeance, which no other king but that of our most merciful, and most kind, and good King Alpha would have done; for his power was, and is unlimited, and he could at any moment summon legions of his bright and shining army, that never did offend, the least one of whom receiving power from him, could have destroyed the whole host of these vile offenders; but his errand was not at this time to destroy, but to save, therefore he appeared personally amongst them to admonish and instruct them in his laws and precepts, and to encourage and persuade them to return to him and live; for unless they did, King Sin would sting them, and King Death wound them; and Justice, a mighty warrior, belonging to King Alpha, would in obedience to him, give them the finishing stroke, whereby they must surely die, and be beyond recovery, or the compassion of their now merciful Sovereign. But he not wishing the destruction of any, but rather that all should return to him and live; he bore long with them, and gave them a chance and an invitation to come and enlist under him to fight against Abadon's forces, by whom they had so long been oppressed and held in bondage under his tyrannical yoke. He went himself, accompanied by his little band of soldiers and trumpeter, proclaiming the glad tidings and liberty to the captives, on condition of their yielding obedience to him; and that they should be saved from all of their foes, for he would build for them a glorious city, and place such watchmen on the walls thereof, as should neither sleep day nor night; these glad tidings did he proclaim, and caused to be proclaimed by the loud sound of the glorious gospel trumpet. Although the number was very few that first came to him, whom he ordained to be trumpeters, yet so loud blowed he the gospel trumpet, accompanied by his little few, that it shook the very foundations of Abadon's throne, and his kingdom trembled under the mighty sound. And at one time when he had sent his little band out, with express press command to blow the mighty trumpet aloud, and had given them power over all the powers of the enemy, and told them to cast out the colleagues of Abadon wheresoever they found them, in any of the habitations or houses of his subjects; he also empowered them to do many miracles, such as opening the eyes of the blind, causing the lame to walk, opening the ears of the deaf, and healing the sick, and those that had been oppressed by Abadon and his tyrannical rulers, destroying their works, and doing such exploits as these. This glorious little band, after having done as they were bidden by their prince, returned again with joy to him, saying that even the near relations to Abadon himself, that were in high authority with him, was subject to them, through the name of Alpha. He told them that he beheld Abadon as lightning falling from his high seat, and that he gave them power to tread down his infernal powers, and that nothing should by any means hurt them; howbeit, in this rejoice not, that Abadon's crew were subject unto them, but rather rejoice because their names are written in the Celestial Land, where his mighty Father dwells. Then did he open his mouth, and converse with his Father saying, "I thank thee O Father, because thou has kept these things from the wise and prudent, as respects this world, and have revealed them unto those that are small, even unto babes. Even so Father, for so it seems good in Thy sight." 
               And he, with his little army, thus began to make inroads on Abadon's forces and kingdom; and Truth, King Alpha's mighty orator, began to make many proclamations unto men, through the instrumentality of his Sovereign's chosen trumpeter, who began to blow very loud the gospel trumpet, for the time had come which had been decreed by almighty Alpha's great and majestic Father, long before this time, and had been spoken of in obedience to him, by the mouth of one of his chosen servants, in words to this amount: Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, proclaim a solemn assembly, let the dead hear that the time has come for them to live. Again arise and shine Zion, for thy light has come; the glory of thy righteous king has arisen upon thee." Now as I have before said, Abadon had two kings under him, namely: Sin and Death, who reigned over all who yielded themselves subject to Abadon. The number of them who had done so, were very great, and they were called the dead. Many of them hearing the glad sound of Zion's trumpeters, blowing such glad tidings, forsook Babylon, Abadon, and his two kings, and came over on King Alpha's side, and came to the city of Zion, and commenced to help build the broken walls thereof. This greatly enraged Abadon against King Alpha, and all his subjects insomuch, that he sent out his captains and officers, such as Mr. Anger, Mr. Malice and Mr. Revenge, to bring them back again into bondage. But so long as they were willing to throw themselves under the protection of King Alpha, all the combined powers of Abadon could not take the weakest one away. Now King Alpha had declared that the hour was coming, and now was that the dead should hear the voice of himself, and they that heard should live. These things were now beginning to be fulfilled, for King Alpha at his first appearance amongst men, had declared war against Abadon, sin, and death, and their united forces. And he told his servant to go into the towns and villages, and as they went to proclaim that his kingdom was at hand; having an allusion thereby that he intended to tear down and destroy Abadon's kingdom, and to build up and establish his Father's, and his own glorious kingdom on the ruins thereof. Abadon taking the alarm, and knowing that unless something was done to save his fallen kingdom, his reign over the children of men, must shortly come to a close, as many of his subjects had already left him, and many more were inclined to believe that King Alpha was their rightful sovereign, and the son of the great and majestic king, who dwells in the Celestial Land; and there is worshipped by the many millions of the shining ones that stand in his presence, which had by his command cast Abadon out for transgression. Now Abadon chose for chief guard and sentinel, Mr. Unbelief; this unbelief therefore stood a mighty defender of Abadon's kingdom, and dwelt in Babylon, sending forth from thence great hosts of his colleagues called doubts. 
               These together with himself traversed the whole of Abadon's kingdom, keeping close watch over the subjects of Abadon, fearing lest any of them should get away, and so go up to the City of Zion, and enlist under King Alpha. And through the instrumentality of chief guard Unbelief, very many were prevented from leaving the dominion of Abadon, who otherwise would have gone up to Zion, for Unbelief stood as the chief guard of Abadon, and undertook the task of keeping all under obedience to Abadon, that were his subjects. So he took with him for a partner, Abadon's chief Orator, to co-operate with him, namely, Untruth. And Mr. Untruth began to make many proclamations to this effect, that is, declaring positively that Alpha was not the great King's Son, whom it was every man's duty to obey, and consequently it was no man's duty to be willing to have him to reign over them, and also 
                     declartng
                     declaring
                   his services not as good as Abadon's, whom they now served. And they had better continue under him, and dwell in mirth and ease, at Babylon, in the land of Sin and Abadon's power, where they might rob, cheat, steal, lie, kill, commit adultery and fornication, and all such like things, without control or the least objection of Abadon, and that they would be none the worse off in the coming out time. 
               He declared also that what king Messiah and his trumpeters proclaimed was untruth, and that the glad tidings that he and they spoke of, were no glad tidings, and that he could not deliver them from the powers of Abadon, and give them any greater liberty than they had. All these lies together with many more too numerous to mention, did untruth proclaim, and to make his proclamation the more aggravating, he declared that the mighty works that King Alpha done, he done them through the power of Abadon, 
                   
                     Mr. Untruth making proclamation to prevent the Pilgrims from leaving Babylon, but Repentance and Confession guide them in the right way. 
                     page 56 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                  
                   and he had no power only what he derived from Abadon, and finally he openly avowed, that king Messiah himself was a deceiver, and ought therefore to be destroyed. All of these things did Mr. Unbelief come forward and substantiate, and declared that whatsoever was spoken contrary to this was not to be believed, though it was spoken or affirmed ever so much, by either King Alpha himself, or his great orator, Mr. Truth, or any of his servants, the gospel trumpeters. 
               Now as false as was this proclamation, delivered by Untruth, and sanctioned by Unbelief, yet it was generally believed by the race of mankind whom great and mighty Alpha and Omega had placed on his earth, to the intent that they might believe, love and obey him, and enjoy all the bounties of the earth, which he had so largely bestowed on them, for their joy, comfort and happiness. Thus did these two officers of Abadon proceed to strive with might and main, to prevent the righteous reign of mighty Alpha, and the establishing of his kingdom on earth, for they even stood along the highways that led to Zion, in order by force, entreaty or deception, to prevent all that traveled that way, for Mr. Deception also stood by them to support them in their evil design against the children of Zion. He stood, and with many others of Abadon's chief men, assisted chief guard Unbelief, and chief orator Untruth in preventing the escape of men from the land of Sin and Death, the miserable and barren land and country of Abadon, where the production of the soil is not sufficient for bread for the inhabitants thereof, and the wages are such as men cannot live by. Therefore are the inhabitants in a starving situation, but so blinded are they by Abadon that the most of them prefer that country to the glorious land of Zion, where there is plenty of bread, and the inhabitants thereof have enough and to spare; for the soil is so rich that it produces everything that is good and worthy of having or enjoying. Therefore began to be raised abroad in Babylon, many other glorious things that were spoken of Zion, for the trumpeters of Zion, with the great orator Truth at their head, by the command of almighty Alpha, sounded their Gospel trumpets so loud that the sound was heard from the walls of Zion even unto Babylon, insomuch that it shook Abadon's Throne. The trumpeter stood on the walls of Zion, which began now to be reared up, and from thence gave the mighty sound that caused Abadon and all his host to tremble, even his two Kings, Sin and Death, and his two commanders-in-chief, the World and the Flesh, and his three generals, the Lust of the Flesh, Lust of the Eye, and Pride of Life, for Abadon well knew the power of mighty Alpha, and that he had come now to destroy his wicked kingdom, and to establish his own righteous one on the ruins thereof. Therefore Abadon in great fear used every endeavor and caution to continue his unrighteous reign over the children of men as long as he could, and for this cause had stationed Untruth and Unbelief by the wayside, to prevent all they could from making their escape from under his power and dominion, and to bring them into captivity and bondage, and take them prisoners and lead them back again in chains to Babylon. But it was only them that yielded to the power of Abadon that Unbelief and Untruth with all their great host of doubts, could overcome, for King Alpha had ordained that whosoever become willing that he should reign over them, should have suitable weapons to fight with, and suitable conductors to convey them safely up the King's Highway to Zion in spite of Abadon's forces, and for this cause was Mr. Confession and Mr. Repentance sent even to the uttermost parts of Babylon, to be the first conductors to bring them to the way that led to Zion. Mr. Conscience having been first sent throughout the land to remind men of the greatness of their crime of rebellion against their rightful Sovereign, he let them know that Almighty Alpha himself would come, with his mighty army to take vengeance on them, and miserably destroy them, unless they become reconciled to him, while 
                   
                     Messrs. Confession and Repentance arrival with a petition from the criminals to King Alpha's court who grants it. 
                     page 57 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                   
                   
                     The return of the messengers with the petition granted, to the great joy of the petitioners. 
                     page 57 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                   as yet his wrath delayed, and their opportunity of returning to him was not taken away, for he intended not always to bear with them. And there were some who from such things being declared and affirmed unto them by Mr. Conscience, became greatly alarmed, as they had incurred on themselves justly the wrath of so great a Potentate, so they concluded to send up a petition to him, desiring that his wrath might be appeased, and that he would graciously accept of them as subjects in his kingdom. They first thought to send the petition by Mr. Goodworks, but Mr. Truth informed them that although Mr. Goodworks was a worthy man, when in his proper place, yet he was not a suitable one by any means for them to send by, to expect favor through his merit, for that King Alpha would not accept of a petition at his hands. Therefore they must find a more suitable messenger or messengers to bear their petition to the King; so orator Truth told them that the only ones they need expect the King would accept their petition of, was Mr. Confession and Mr. Repentance. They sent it by them accompanied by Mr. Faith, who was Mr. Truth's companion and friend, and without him there was no petition acceptable to King Alpha, for without Mr. Faith it was impossible to please King Alpha. These three being sent up, the King saw them and was glad and rejoiced greatly, moreover he caused that there should be great rejoicing throughout all the Celestial Land and Country, where his Mighty Father dwelt, even more than over those that were already safe in the fold. He received their message, and sent them another of glad tidings, in answer to theirs, by the hands of great Mr. Faith, who had done many great exploits, and was still able to do more. When those that sent the petition received the answer, they rejoiced greatly and leaped for joy, and began to sing songs of praise to King Alpha, the Father, Son and Spirit, three in one. They having received so glorious a message and invitation from the King, immediately took their departure from the land of Babylon, to go to the City and Land of Zion, being conducted into the King's highway by Messrs. Confession, Repentance and Faith, which when they had got fairly in the highway great orator Truth joining them there, and taking the lead, they marched up to the great City of Zion. Now Mr. Truth and Mr. Untruth, were the natural foes of each other, the same also was Mr. Faith and Mr. Unbelief. Mr. Untruth was also a very swift messenger as well as orator for his King, running through the land, everywhere that he was received making proclamations against the righteous reign of the glorious King of Zion, finding much fault of his laws and kingdom, and contradicting all of his promise. Mr. Truth also, although he was not so swift yet was he a more able and more firm defender of King Alpha, and the righteousness and goodness of his reign, and the justice of his laws, and the truth of his promises, therefore wheresoever he came where Untruth had been and men would hear him, he fully refuted all of Untruth's proclamations, proving his assertions to be false, and by no means to be relied upon. 
               This weakened Abadon's power much and greatly offended him. Mr. Faith and Mr. Unbelief were also greatly opposed to each other, for Mr. Unbelief spoke nothing but evil of the kingdom of Zion and of all the glorious things that were therein, even denying that King Alpha had appeared amongst men or that he had power to do the mighty things that both Truth and Faith declared he had and could do. Faith therefore stood up against him, and held forth to view, to all that would see, all that Mr. Truth had declared in his proclamation concerning King Alpha and his glorious reign in Zion. Therefore, there was a controversy and many skirmishes between these great defenders of their different kings, for Truth and Faith went to deliver the lawful captives, but Untruth and Unbelief withstood them, seeking to take them back again into bondage, whom Truth and Faith had delivered and were delivering from the power of Abadon. But the power of Faith and Truth was sufficient to save whomsoever placed themselves 
                   
                     Mr. Truth making proclamation to the Pilgrims, who propose to leave Babylon. 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                  
                   selves under their protection, from Unbelief, Untruth and all of Abadon's forces, for King Alpha had said that whosoever would come might come and partake of his bounty freely without either money or price. So Truth and Faith had power to do whatsoever their mighty king had commanded them to do, so that it was in vain for Mr. Untruth and Unbelief to march up at the head of their army of Doubts to assail those who were under the protection of these two great champions Truth and Faith, for by them was Untruth and Unbelief and all their hosts often put to flight, and suffered great loss, for Untruth could not stand in the presence of Truth, neither could Unbelief withstand the mighty power of Faith, therefore did Truth and Faith always prevail, and the victory was on Zion's side. All of these things therefore greatly enraged Abadon against King Alpha, for he was now fast losing subjects by the command of the king of Zion, for King Alpha had given command to his servants to go out into Abadon's dominion and bring as many as they found to Zion; and because of these things was Abadon's wrath kindled, and he summoned his mighty ones together and called a council to take into consideration what should be done for the further continuance of his kingdom and reign over men. So king Sin and king Death, together with the rest of Abadon's nobility, presented themselves together, and Mr. Revenge and Mr. Malice, who were his chief counsellors, declared that it was really needful that King Alpha himself and all that yielded obedience to him, should be persecuted and wounded with death's dreadful dart, and as this was fully concurred in by all the nobility of Babylon, Abadon passed a decree that it should be so done, even as the council had agreed; and so all the powers of Babylon became engaged to bring it to pass. Now Babylon that was on earth was not the real place of Abadon's dwelling, but the bottomless pit-a country wherewith him dwelt legions of his strong associates and comrades in wickedness, who conferred with him in all his undertakings, and these helped him to influence his officers and subjects on earth in Babylon, and Untruth and Unbelief took the lead in the shameful attempt to captivate the minds of men, and to cause them to adhere to the unrighteous, unjust and wicked reign of Abadon, arguing that his reign was good, whilst that of King Alpha was evil, and ought to be brought to a close, and the king himself destroyed. And it is to be lamented that these false arguments were believed by the chief part of the race of mankind. And they engaged on the part of Abadon to bring his evil devices to pass, for they went about to destroy King Alpha and to drive him from the face of the earth. Now great King Alpha had not come on earth at this time to continue amongst men personally, but intended to return again to the Celestial Land, there to sit in majesty and great glory, high on his Father's Throne at his right hand, and to receive the homage that is due to him from the shining millions of the Celestial host, that there adores the glorious Father and the Son and Holy Spirit, Three in One, for it had been decreed by his Father, agreeable to his own will, that he should lay down his life to atone for the transgression of his rebellious subjects on earth. As they had become so greatly indebted to the majesty on high, that they being poor and having nothing, having lost their all by the powers of Abadon, therefore they could not pay the debt themselves, and it must needs be paid by some one, or else they must be doomed to everlasting imprisonment, no more to enjoy their liberty again. King Alpha being yet seated high on his Father's Throne, beheld with him the lost and undone condition of his miserable people on earth, who had made themselves wretched by their alienation from and their rebellion against him, and adherence to Abadon. Now one Justice was chief steward over the household, and the affairs of the kingdom of Almighty Alpha; therefore, in behalf of his King, he demanded that this debt should and must be paid, and as he had a legal claim upon them, and his right must be maintained, the question then arose throughout the dominion of the King of the Celestial Land, who was able to undertake and to perform the mighty task of paying this great debt. Search being made throughout the broad scope of the Universe, through all immensity of space, both above the earth and under the earth, and in the earth, and behold there were none found that were either able or willing to undertake so great and important an undertaking, but the only begotten Son of the Almighty King of the Celestial Land, who is called Shiloh, as well as Alpha. He agreed on an appointed time and place to meet Justice and there pay him his demand, which we intend hereafter, if permitted, to speak more fully; but I must here end the first part of my story, and for its defects the kind reader must excuse the humble author, as purity of motives is his highest aim. He therefore hopes you will the more readily excuse the defects of this little work, when you learn that he is but a poor colored man, who has never went to school twelve months in his life, and whose opportunities have been and are still very small, for improving his mind, as he has hitherto labored each day for bread for himself and family, and much of what he here presents to his readers has been written at night after ending his day's labor. 
             
             
                
               PART SECOND. 
               IN resuming my little essay, the foregoing part of which the kind reader may have perused, I flatter myself with the idea that I am rather more competent to do justice to a work of such great importance, than I was a number of years ago, when I wrote the first part, in which I made acknowledgment of my incapacity for so very great an undertaking, as to successfully describe the Rise and Progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness. Neither do I yet feel myself fully competent; but a sense of duty more than any high opinion of my own ability has moved me to proceed with the great work which I had previously felt it my duty to begin. Now, kind reader, having said thus much in vindication of my efforts, I proceed: 
               I left you where King Alpha, who is also called Shiloh, agreed at an appointed time and place to meet Justice, and then and there to pay him all of his demand. So now the day and time having come, he went forth unto a mountain called Calvary, where Justice met Him, having his whole bill and account fully made out, and he declared that silver and gold would avail nothing towards paying this demand, as they in this respect were corrupt. Neither would the blood of bullocks and heifers, nor turtle doves and pigeons, avail anything towards settling this claim legally held against man. But that the whole law must be kept, and that honor that is due to the great Majesty on high must be fully paid to Him. And to seal the whole and make man's pardon sure on condition of repentance and future obedience and believing in King Messiah, and that for this cause King Messiah should spill his own blood and give 
                   
                     The meeting of King Alpha with Justice to settle his claim against the Criminals, his Father, Mercy, Angels, Death, the Criminals, Sin, Abadon and his Nobility 
                           bieng
                           being
                         present. 
                     pages 63 & 64 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                  
                   up his own life for a time, and fall by the stroke of king Death, that thereby he might ransom his rebellious subjects from the power of sin and death, and blot out the handwriting that Justice had against them. Now Mercy, a very great princess, the darling of the bosom of the great Father, and the chosen and well-beloved of the almighty Son, was presented on this occasion, and also all the powers of darkness under Abadon, pleading the destruction of man, and desiring that he should be doomed to be forever under the power of Abadon, sin and death, as he had yielded obedience to the two former. 
               Death also claimed to have a right to have dominion over him, justice also agreeing to the legality of the claim, and therefore pronounced all mankind doomed to death and eternal imprisonment, unless an ample atonement were made for his transgression, and the debt he owed was fully paid, and therefore justice stood, and with a dreadful frown gave Death the keys of the prison, and summoned him to give man a thrust with his dreadful dart, and confine him in everlasting imprisonment and woe, the Great Majesty on high consenting to its justice. But mercy also stood, and smiling in the face of the Father and the Son, she plead in man's behalf, that if possible this awful sentence might be repealed, but as this could not be unless that Messiah in man's stead paid the debt; therefore she entreated the Father to give up the Son, and the Son to be willing to come and give his life a ransom for the transgressors. Now the time having fully come for these things to be done, King Death stood with the keys at his side, and his dart uplifted high, ready to give the fatal blow and make thereby a finishing stroke to man. But the most merciful King Messiah stood forth and in man's stead suffered Death's heavy stroke to fall on himself, and also suffered himself to be taken a prisoner by him for a time. Now this sentence having been pronounced by justice, was executed by death in the following manner: Abadon and Sin commanded their subjects to bring false accusations against Prince Messiah, and to pronounce him a deceiver, and as such to lay violent hands upon him, and after buffeting and spitting upon him, and putting a crown of thorns on his head, and then to nail his hands and feet to a tree, and leaving him hanging there in that suffering situation exposed to the inflicting of Death's dreadful dart, who eager to give the blow threw it with all his vengeful power, which Messiah to shelter man endured, but fell beneath the stroke and was taken prisoner by Death, and cast in his prison called the grave. 
               Now Messiah had previously told his trumpeters that these things were to be, and that he would lay under the power of death until the third day, and that he would then arise and overcome death, and take from him his keys, and take them in his own hands to possess them forever and come forth from his prison triumphantly over Abadon, Sin and Death, and all their dark and subtle powers, leading prisoners into captivity, and giving precious gifts to men, and then to re-ascend to his meritorial seat on his majestical throne, there to sit in glory, forever highly exalted over all. And according to his promise, on the third day early in the morning while it was yet dark, a flaming herald by the express order of the great King of Light, was despatched from on high, to the place where the 
                     reat
                     great
                   Messiah laid, where those who had been appointed to watch were stationed, to see whether his disciples came and stole him away, or whether he by his own power came forth. Now these men were undoubtedly picked and valient men, and had done what they could to secure the place, and were arrayed for battle, and had rolled a great stone to the prison door as a preventative, yet did this great messenger with ease remove every stumbling block out of the way, and so glorious was his appearance that for fear of him these guards trembled, and fell and became as dead men, then did the great and mighty King Messiah arise and lay violent hands upon Death and drew out his sting and took from him his keys and brought him under subjection 
                   
                     Death strikes King Alpha with his Dart who falls to rise again. 
                     page 51 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                  
                   
                   
                     The great Conquest of King Alpha over Kings Sin & Death taking from the latter his key. 
                     page 64. 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                  
                   jection, and then unlock his prison door and come forth triumphant and gloriously over sin and death, and all of Abadon's dark powers. Now, although death had stood from the beginning an unconquered foe to all the sons of men-yea had conquered all with whom he had come in contact, and was at this time armed with all his dreadful weapons of war, and stood ready to contend for every inch of the ground, and hoped never to be overcome, yet when the great King Messiah armed himself for battle, with all his weapons of war, and went forth conquering and to conquer, grim Death fell beneath the force of his Almighty power, and although Abadon also stood with all his combined powers of earth and Hades in battle array, when great Messiah mounted the chariot of his love which was stronger than death, then did he with ease ride through the thickest of the combined forces of Abadon, Sin and Death, spoiling their powers and leading them captives.-He dragged them bound in chains at his chariot wheels, and made them a show openly as vanquished and conquered foes. Thus did he triumph gloriously over all the powers beneath, giving very great and precious gifts to men. Now very soon after he had thus subdued these great foes to himself and his creature man, he showed himself to some of his chosen servants, who went early on the third day to the place where he had been laid, telling them that he had not yet ascended to his Father, to re-inherit the kingdom of his power and glory; therefore tell my brethern that I am going shortly to ascend to my Father, and your Father, my God, and your God. So these servants being thus informed by their heavenly and divine master, ran with great joy to tell their brethren these glad and glorious tidings; and that they had seen their king alive, and he had told them these things. So now the great King Alpha, having thus paid the debt his rebellious subjects owed, his almighty Father's wrath was appeased, and justice was satisfied. And therefore Mercy and Justice on this occasion, met on friendly terms, and kissed each other, for although they had previously been on very friendly terms together for an infinite period of time, even long before man had an existence; yet on the occasion of the debt that man owed through disobedience, and the penalty that was due to him, they had differed and disagreed. For justice demanded an infinite punishment, or an infinite atonement, as man had infinitely transgressed; but mercy demanded and asked that an infinite atonement should be made for him, and that he should be pardoned on conditions of true repentance for past offences, and future obedience. 
               So now therefore, each of their demands having been fully complied with, by the great sacrifice which Messiah had made, it was therefore, for this cause, that mercy and justice met on such friendly terms together, kissing and embracing each other, and mercy asked of justice and obtained a receipt in full for all that man owed to the majesty on high, and this receipt was deposited in the hands of King Alpha, to be given to man by him, through the interposition of the Comforter on conditions of repentance towards his Father, and faith in himself. Now king Messiah had told his body servants, while he was yet with them, that after he had taken his departure from them, and had fought and conquered the tyrannical powers of Abadon, Sin, and Death, to make up for the absence of his bodily presence amongst them, he would send the Comforter ever to remain with them to comfort, console, instruct, and teach them and bring all things in remembrance which he had previously told them. These and many other comfortable words, did our great and glorious king speak to them for their comfort, encouragement, and edification, and also for those who were to come after them, as his obedient servants; the records of which have been faithfully kept, and handed down to posterity unto the present day. 
               So now after King Alpha had alone, and single-handed, thus-fought this great battle against the combined powers of these three great kings, Abadon, Sin, and Death, and had 
                   
                     King Sin and other powers of Darkness attempting to flee are captured by King Alpha, and bound in Chains are dragged at his Chariot wheels. 
                     page 65 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                  
                   as above described, gained a complete victory over them, and all their frightful powers, and having paid Justice all of his legal claims and demands against his rebellious subjects, previous to his re-ascending to his royal and majestic throne in the Celestial Land, he collected together his chosen body servants who had been with him while he sojourned in the terrestrial Land, and made known to them the conditions on which his Father and himself would acquit men from all the claims his steward Justice had previously held against them; also appointing and commissioning them, and their successors, to make known to all succeeding generations those conditions, and fully informing them of the manner of his kingdom on earth, and giving them power to establish it, and make his laws and decrees fully known to men. Having set apart twelve as his ministerial ambassadors, delivering to them the necessary documents and his message of reconciliation, and ordaining them to go unto all the terrestrial Land, and deliver it to every creature; and they that believed and complied therewith, should be acquited and live in his kingdom; whilst they that did not, should be condemned to death, and be cast forever out of it, and be consigned to Hades. Having finished all that was necessary for him to do, assuring them that he would be with them wherever his presence was needful, accompanied by his Father to help them, he led them to the number of five hundred, who had been his followers, to an appointed place, there to take his leave of them, the place being called the Mount of Olives. He then in the presence of them all, that there might be no lack of witnesses, got on a cloud, it serving as a chariot, and slowly in their sight made his ascension towards the Celestial Land, there to re-ascend his throne at his Father's right hand, to reign over all principalities and powers, both above and below through all immensity of space, and over all created beings. 
               Now as he went up there were two shining ones, who were sent from his Father's court on high, that as these men looked steadfastly upwards said, "Why look ye up so steadfastly towards the Celestial Land, for this very same mighty Conqueror and King, that ye see going up in the same like manner, ye shall see him coming down again; having received this information, they returned to the city of Jerusalem, from whence their king's laws and decrees were to go forth; and there being assembled in conference and consultation together with the eleven chief ambassadors, for one of his twelve had fell, having betrayed his master and his trust, and hanged himself, he was no more numbered with the twelve. But the eleven and the rest of the company continued in consultation together, sending many post letters and petitions up to the court of King Alpha, and receiving many kind answers therefrom since his departure from them; and as they could not talk with him face to face as formerly, he allowed them free access by letter to correspond as often as they would. And as his love was very great for them, which he had fully proved by dying, that they and others might live, and their love also was very great to him for having so done, they took great pleasure in corresponding with him, and he also with them, which gave them oftimes great joy and comfort. Now it was expedient that there should be twelve chief ambassadors of peace for King Alpha; therefore the chief of the eleven, Peter by name, proposed to send a petition up to King Alpha, to show them which one he choose to fill the vacancy caused by the fall of him who, by transgression had lost his position, and said that of them who had been with them from the time the king was going in and out among them must one be chosen. So they appointed two, surnamed Barnabas and Matthias, and petitioned to their king, who knew the hearts of all, to show them by lot, which of the two he choose to fill the vacancy caused by the fall of him who proved a traitor to him and his cause, that he might go to his place; and so the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven. 
                
               
                   
                     King Alpha riding in the Chariot, with his enemies bound, while Angels gaze admiringly on. 
                     page 66 
                     H.J. Toudy & Co.Lith, 505 Chestnut St. Phila. 
                  
                
                
                
               Now these things had all been foretold by the king, and left on his royal record, which was now fulfilled. Now there was a great feast that had been long kept by the servants of King Alpha, who had lived in former days, in remembrance of a very great deliverance he had wrought for them, in delivering them from their powerful oppressors. The time of this feast which is called Pentecost, being now fully come, the king's ambassadors, together with a number of his other servants, were assembled together in one place, and with one accord were engaged in sending up petitions to him that he might in mercy condescend to visit them, in order that he might perfect what he had already began, in empowering and arming them sufficiently strong for the great warfare in which it was needful for them to shortly enter; in order that they might through the aid of his almighty power, establish his kingdom on earth throughout its broad dominion. Now it came to pass while they were thus engaged, that suddenly there came a sound from the Celestial Land, as of the rushing of a mighty wind, and it filled the house where they were sitting, and there appeared cloven tongues like as of fire, and sat on each of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, who by King Alpha was called the Comforter, whom he promised to send them after his own departure to the Celestial Country, and said that when he came he would teach them all things. 
               Now this Comforter was one with the Father of King Alpha and himself, which three persons are one God. The Comforter being the third person in the adorable Trinity, and the three bear accord in the Celestial Land; so that whatsoever he teaches is likewise the whole mind of the Father and the Son. The servants therefore of Alpha, having a full knowledge of this, received with great joy his teachings, as coming immediately from the majesty on high, and prepared to do accordingly. 
               Now there dwelt at this time in the city of Jerusalem, men from all parts of the Terrestrial Country, who spoke in many 
                     difierent
                     different
                   languages; yet did the Comforter so empower the ambassadors of the king, and gave them such wisdom that they spoke to them all in their own language, wherein they were born, much to their surprise and astonishment, as they heard them tell in their own tongue the wonderful works that King Alpha had done and intended yet to do; and they wondered how it was that these ambassadors being unlearned men of one country, should have such great wisdom as to speak in every language the wonderful works of their king; others that heard them speak mocked and said they were drunken of wine. Then arose Peter, he being the foreman among the ambassadors, and with great power and boldness so spake in the defence of the great King Alpha, and his kingdom, and followers, urging them to leave the service of Abadon, and come into the kingdom of Alpha, and accept him as their king to reign over them; that on that same day there were added to their number three thousand, who continued steadfast followers of Alpha and his ambassadors; for this ambassador above named, fully discharged his duty in maintaining the cause of his Sovereign with such strong arguments, that the aforesaid three thousand immediately left the service of Abadon, and enlisted as volunteers in the army of King Alpha, took the 
                     neccessary
                     necessary
                   oath of allegiance, and was placed in possession of arms from the armory of King Alpha. 
               Now the armor and weapons with which King Alpha commonly armed his soldiers consisted of a shield called faith, which when rightly handled, was sufficient to quench all the fiery darts of any of their foes, though it should be the most powerful, even Abadon himself. And on their head was placed a helmet called the hope of Salvation, which caused those who wore it to greatly rejoice in the expectation and assurance of conquering all their foes, even Abadon, Sin and Death with all their combined powers; thereby gaining a Crown of never-fading glory, and obtaining an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled and that fadeth not away. On their breast was placed also a breastplate called the Breastplate of Righteousness, which was so tempered as to be proof against all the artillery of the enemy, and none who wears it right can by any means be mortally wounded. And they were shod with what was called the preparation of the Gospel of peace, and being shod with these kind of shoes, which were of such an endurable material, that they would not by walking, ever be worn out, and those who wore them stood very boldly and prepared to fight at any time, and moreover they were fully prepared to march over the long and rugged roads they were to travel, and to climb the steep hills of difficulty, and the slippery paths that lay between them and the Celestial Country, to which they enlisted to fight their way and travel, for they would have very many powerful foes to contend with in their march to that glorious country, for there was nothing to which Abadon was more opposed than that the sons of men should possess that land from which he for transgression was cast out. Therefore he much opposed the march of the soldiers of Alpha. There was also given to them a very keen edged sword, called the Sword of the Spirit, which was of such temperament that nothing was sufficiently hard to turn its edge, and whosoever had it in his possession and handled it right, might venture on an angel spirit, or what not, and it is recorded concerning it, that it will pierce between the joints and the marrow, soul and spirit even to the discerning of the secret thought and intentions of the heart, enabling those who have it to see and know the secret intentions of their enemy against them, which is a thing of great service to the warrior as he is thereby enabled to meet and thwart the plans and intentions of the enemy. 
               The same 
                     connot
                     cannot
                   be said of any other sword, and Abadon well knows its great and mighty qualities having often felt its keen edge, and been caused to take his flight even when it has been wielded aright by one of the weakest of King Alpha's soldiers, for it is called the power of Alpha's great and almighty Father, and is fully sufficient for any battle to which his soldiers may come, and no soldier should attempt to go to war against the power of Abadon without first procuring one of these swords; for if he does, he will surely be slain or taken captive by the enemy. 
               Now to the above named powerful armor and weapons is added yet another called Prayer, which has been known to prevail when all other weapons have failed; and even Abadon himself has been known to tremble when one of the weakest of Alpha's soldiers has used it aright, for through the virtue that is in it, they can have access to the courts of King Alpha, and can communicate with him and thereby receive such aid from him as their situation may require; and when this weapon is well mixed with the materials of which their shield is made, it will always prevail with King Alpha to send them the help they need, and he has left them a promise on record to that effect; and many of his warriors have done great wonders and exploits through the power of this great weapon, and no soldier of King Alpha can live long without having it in his possession and using it; for when he ceases to use it, he is easily overcome and slain or taken captive by the enemy at his will; and in addition to the above weapons, there is also given to Alpha's trumpeter who stands on the wall as his watchman, a bow, arrows and quiver, which they often use with great effect, on rebellious subjects of King Alpha, whom these watchmen see at a great distance, for they like not to come near the city or army of their rightful Sovereign whom they have deserted, and enlisted in the service of Abadon, and in shooting them the watchmen draw the bow at a venture, leaving King Alpha to direct the arrow, which he often does with such effect that it reaches the heart of the King's enemy, putting them to great pain and anguish, for it is not the will of King Alpha that they should be slain, for he delights not in the death of any; but would rather that all his rebellious subjects jects should return to him and live. Now the name of the above bow is the Gospel bow, and the quiver in which the arrows are held, is the Commission which these watchmen have received from the hands of King Alpha himself, which is made up of his constraining love shed abroad in their heart, and this quiver is often so abundantly filled with arrows by King Alpha, that it pains them to that degree to carry it, that they are obliged to shoot from it in order that they may get relief; for unto those to whom this quiver is once given, there is no other way for them to get relief, but to shoot arrows from it at the King's enemies, unless they quit his service entirely, which of course they do not wish to do, therefore some who have had it given to them, and have been unwilling to shoot from it, have been so heavily burdened and pained that they have been caused to cry out, woe is me if I shoot not with the bow these arrows from the quiver. And they of necessity were compelled to do it, which if it had not been of necessity, they never would have done it, for it is a remarkable and curious fact, as high a calling as it is to be 
                     chosan
                     chosen
                   ambassador, watchman and trumpeter for the great and Almighty King of Light, the most part if not all of these he has truly chosen to fill that high position, have showed an unwillingness to do so, but it is believed by those who are judged to know best, that this unwillingness arises from a sense of the great responsibility of such a high position, and a sense of their own insufficiency and incapability of filling it; and truly it cannot be filled by any of the sons of men, only through aid received from the Almighty King of Light himself, which aid he has promised to give to all he appoints, if they are obedient to him; so that they have no excuse for refusing the appointment, and are so much the more condemnable if they do so. The name of the above arrows is conviction, and are manufactured in the Celestial Land by the Comforter, under the express direction of King Alpha's Father and himself, and their points are made very keen and dipped well in wormwood and gall, so that those who are wounded by them are greatly embittered in their feelings. These arrows drink up their spirits and make a dreadful wound, which puts them in great pain and agony, from which there is no relief, except by the immediate interposition of King Alpha himself, through application made to him. Now the cry of those who are thus wounded is very pitiful, and heart-rending, as of one who had lost their all; for I have stood and heard their cry, and in truth have cried myself-having been wounded by the same arrows, as I also was once a rebel against King Alpha, and in the vile service of Abadon. But being wounded and taken a willing captive, I now through the exceeding great mercy of my glorious King Alpha, am a volunteer soldier in his army, and have by him been appointed, though unworthy, to the high post of honor of being a watchman to stand on the wall and give the alarm, and he has also given unto me a bow, arrows and quiver through his hands to be instrumental in inflicting on other rebels, the same pain under which I once groaned and wept. Now the intention of King Alpha in thus wounding these rebels, is not that they might be slain, but that they might see the necessity of his aid, and yield obedience to him and live. Now this living is to live to him, and to die to Abadon; and to pass through this operation causes the great pain which is brought on by the wounds of the arrows of conviction, from which there can be no relief only through King Alpha by the instrumentality of the Comforter, whom he has promised to send to those who are sick from those wounds, and desire him to heal them; for he is himself a very great physician, and able to cure all manner of diseases; and the Comforter partakes of his skill and power, and as the arrows are manufactured by the Comforter, who knows the ingredients they contain, he is therefore the most suitable one to effect a cure from their wounds; and for this reason doth the king of Light always send him to heal the wounded, and as his coming and healing them always gives great joy and comfort, therefore he is called the Comforter. Now this Comforter when sent to the wounded, never leaves them until he has effected a cure, which in continuation makes of them sound and able bodied men, fitted for the army and service of King Alpha; so that it only remains for them to make applications to him and receive, and put on the whole armor above described, with the exception of the bow, arrows and quiver, which is not given through application made by those who receive them, but is only given to those whom the King himself sees fit to choose and appoint. Nevertheless those who receive the former and are not given the latter weapons, are also fully prepared to fill whatever branch of the service to which they are appointed in the army of the King of Light. 
               He therefore reasonably expects of them, after being thus equipped, immediately to prepare for active service in the field, which field is also called earth, against the forces of the enemy, who generally are not slow in making an attack on them after they enlist in the service of King Alpha; and woe be to that soldier who is fairly attacked by Abadon's forces, if he has not previously put on the whole armor, and got his sword in his hand, and making good use of it, and the weapon called prayer. 
               And now kind reader, having given you a faint description of the armor and weapons of the soldiers of the Kingdom of Light, and also stating their power and use, I must now return to the little army that was organized by King Alpha himself, previous to taking his leave of them, which contained as faithful, valiant, true-hearted, and courageous a band of warriors as ever unsheathed a sword, or drew a battle-bow, or sounded a trumpet of alarm; I left you where the chief one of the ambassadors of King Alpha, after his departure on the day of Pentecost, did deliver his message, and make his proclamation unto those who were in rebellion; three thousand of whom did immediately leave the service of Abadon, and enlist in the army of King Alpha, taking the oath of allegiance to him, and was thereby by acquitted from all that Justice had against them, and were given by the Comforter, a receipt in full for all their indebtedness, and were armed for battle; and the war which was now declared against all the powers of Darkness, which was now greatly enraged against the soldiers of Light, who had left Abadon and his service, and were now preparing to fight against him, and all his dark powers. But this little army was nothing daunted, being led on to battle by the Comforter, who was appointed now to be the commander-in-chief of the army of the Kingdom of Light; and a very powerful and able leader he was too; even next to King Alpha himself, so that it is very difficult to discover the difference between them, and it is argued that they are equal in power and skill; and they in all things do agree with the great Father of King Alpha; therefore under his leadership they cannot fail to always gain the victory. 
               Now the King of Light had decreed, that whosoever should leave the service of Abadon, and believe in, and come to him, should pass through an operation called Baptism, which was done through the application of fire and water to them, which was to be a proof that they were truly on King Alpha's side, and willing to fight in his glorious cause. Now the water baptism could be performed by the trumpeters, whom he had called to blow the trumpet; but the fire baptism could only be performed by the Comforter, who was always ready and willing to perform this crowning act, which when performed makes those who have experienced it, willing to die if need be, for the glorious cause in which they are engaged. 
               So this glorious little band of warriors, being thus fortified and fitted out, began immediately to engage the enemy, making many inroads on his dark powers, and He in return would bring up reinforcements from among his subjects. For they were then, and still are very numerous, who would use all their power and skill to resist the attack, and to destroy and disannul the army of Light; and though these rebels did sometimes retard the progress of the army of the King of Light, yet did they, nevertheless, still continue to go forward conquering and to conquer, taking many captives, slaying many with the edge of the sword, and wounding many with the arrows of the trumpeters. Now to accomplish these great victories, caused much suffering with the trumpeters and soldiers of King Alpha, many of whom died in the glorious cause of their King; but to such as so did, great were their rewards, which he gave unto them, in another part of his immense dominion called Heaven; to which place their spirits were immediately conveyed by messengers sent from that region by the king for that express purpose. For to every man there is a body and a soul, which makes but one man; now the soul of a true soldier of King Alpha, cannot be slain or overcome by any of the forces of Abadon, for King Alpha has appointed and ordained that it shall live as long as he himself shall live, which is to all eternity, as the soul proceeds and comes forth from him, and is therefore immortal; but the body is mortal, being of the earth, and earthly, and is therefore subject to death, and pain, and suffering, which the enemy often inflicts upon them for a limited space, for it is impossible for a soldier of Light to be held long by either pain or death; for death himself always puts an end to their pain, and all that he can do therefore to a servant of Alpha, is to separate the soul from the body, leaving the body to lay sleeping in the dust, until a day and time appointed by his Almighty Father, when he shall call them to arise from the dust; then will the soul and body be reunited, and go up together at the command of the king, to reign forever with him in the Celestial Country, in a city and place which he will prepare for them who have fought valiantly under his blood stained banner, when will be brought to pass the saying that is written in King Alpha's record, which is, death is swallowed up in victory; "O Death where is thy sting, O Grave where is thy victory.' 
               But as I intend to write more fully of this great victory, and the final end of the war, I will therefore forbear to enlarge on it at present, and return to the glorious little band of warriors in the army of King Alpha, whom he had chosen to fight, suffer, bleed, and die, if need be, for the establishing of his kingdom on earth, they being called to this high honor; for it truly is a very great honor to suffer or die for his sake. And King Alpha has promised to those who lose their lives for his name-sake, they should find it again. These soldiers knowing this, were therefore, the more willing to suffer or die, so they might please him who had chosen them to be soldiers; and they went valiantly on against the combined powers of earth and Hades, for Abadon marshalled them both on the field of battle, the former being Flesh, but the latter being Spirit, it made a very hard conflict, but the victory was always on King Alpha's side. But to give a more minute detail of the acts and deeds of these, his valiant soldiers, and also their opposers, I return to state, that Simon, whose surname was Peter, being one of the oldest and first chosen, was therefore given by the Comforter, a commission as a general in the army of Light. He having been previously chosen, ordained, and commissioned by King Alpha, as I have before said, as an officer, high in command, even as an ambassador of peace, a Trumpeter and Watchmen on the walls of Zion. 
               Now as I have above said, there was at first eleven others, to whom was given by the proper authority the same commission which was to be continued to them, and their successors duly appointed thereunto until time shall end. Now the three-fold commission to which the above have and are to be appointed, is in this manner, their ambassage of peace is thus: They are to negotiate with those who have taken up arms, and are in open rebellion against the government of King Alpha; and have joined themselves to the forces of Abadon his enemy. Yea even to them are they to lay down conditions of reconciliation and peace between them and their justly offended Sovereign; which is merely to lay down their arms of rebellion against him, and yield obedience and submission to him and to his most mild and righteous government, having previously renounced Abadon and all his dark and wicked powers, as has abundantly been shown in the foregoing part of this work. There never was a sovereign to whom was due so much honor from his subjects, as our great, glorious and good King Alpha; therefore are those who rebel against him, so much the more liable to punishment and his righteous displeasure. Yet notwithstanding all this he is willing to be reconciled, and to pardon them, and to receive them graciously into his royal favor, on the easy terms made known to them by his ambassadors, whom he has sent unto them; and these ambassadors as watchmen, are in this wise standing in a high position, as they do even on the watch towers of the high walls of the great city of Zion, so high that there is no higher position filled with mortals on earth, and therefore it is their privilege and duty to see the sword or danger, coming at a far distance, and warn the people that are in the city, who see not the danger often until it is too late, unless they are warned by these watchmen; and should the watchmen fail to give the alarm, and the sword should come and find the people unprepared, and should take them away in their sins, yet their blood will King Alpha require at his watchmen's hands. Therefore it is very evident there rests on them a very great responsibility, there being a duty of such great importance entrusted to their charge. And most faithfully did those to whom this high commission first was given, perform the arduous task committed to them, and their so doing had the desired effect; which was to arouse the soldiers of King Alpha to rally round his standard, and prepare for the battle. And very many great engagements were brought on by the sound of the trumpet of alarm, blown by those watchmen who stood as sentinels or picket guards; and when those great battles were fought, the victory as a general thing was always on the side of the army of the great King of Light, which wounded many, slew many, and took many captives, all of whom were freely pardoned, and restored into the favor of the most merciful King Alpha, on condition of their renouncing Abadon, and taking the oath of allegiance to Alpha and his government. For as already has been stated, King Alpha is possessed with such great and mysterious power, that he can at a word restore those who are slain to life again, and make them able soldiers in his cause. And to those who are wounded and desire to be healed, he sends the Comforter, who also performs a speedy cure, and makes them fit for the service of the King of Light. He also speedily sets the captives free, who being in bondage groan for deliverance, and engages Messrs. Contrition and Faith to make an appeal for them, and present their case to the courts on high, from whence they readily receive pardon on condition of future obedience, and they also are enlisted in the service of the great King of Light. Therefore these wars have a two-fold effect, that is, weakening the army of Abadon, and strengthening that of Alpha. Now in the service of these great powers, there are two orders of beings engaged, one visible, the other invisible; one natural, the other supernatural; one body, and the other spirit. The spiritual on the side of King Alpha are like himself, of a celestial and divine nature, and therefore very powerful to prevail against all that do oppose them. They are called angels, but man who is in the body is not as strong as they, being made a little lower, and being of the earth, earthly. Yet when he becomes a soldier of King Alpha, and is armed by him, he then also becomes very powerful against all the opposing powers of darkness who assail him, as he is then made a partaker of the divine nature, and therefore cannot be prevailed against by their enemies, while they remain in that state. Now on the side of Abadon, the spiritual are like himself, ethereal and of an infernal nature, and are called fallen angels. But not having kept their first estate, they are only mighty, but not almighty, that power only belonging to the King of Light; therefore they cannot prevail against his soldiers whilst they obey his orders.-The natural part of Abadon's forces who are visible being in the body, are flesh and blood. They cannot prevail against the soldiers of Light, yet do they fight earnestly for the cause of king Abadon, and spare no pains to gain conquest for him. And therefore to this end did these rebels withstand General Peter, and the rest of the ambassadors of light, in their attempt to negotiate with them and their companions for reconciliation and peace.-Now at this period there were two grand divisions on earth among men, namely: The circumcision and the uncircumcision, or in other words, the Jews and Gentiles, which two divisions comprised all the inhabitants on the earth. And to Peter was committed the especial duty of negotiating with the circumcision or Jews, and there were many others appointed to assist him in so doing, and King Alpha himself while on earth had paid an especial regard to them, as did also his eleven first ambassadors; giving them thereby a fair chance to be reconciled to him and live also. They had received his law by the disposition of angels, yet had not kept it as they were told by his servant Stephen, of whom it is meet to make honorable mention. He was a very valiant soldier for King Alpha, and died in the defence of his cause, by the hands of these rebels while he was telling them of the part they took in the execution of King Messiah when he was bodily on earth. Thus slew they Stephen, casting great stones upon him, whilst that he looking steadfastly up toward the Celestial Land, saw King Messiah seated on his throne at his Father's right hand, unto whom he commended this spirit which he now gave up, and a passport being granted by the King of Light, he was immediately admitted; and conveyed, escorted by a guard of honor, to the courts on high, where it received the approval of the great King of Light. The body was left to sleep until it shall be awakened by the voice of King Alpha himself, when he shall call it to arise to reunite unite with his spirit, and then to be ever happy with and in the glorious and majestic presence of his Sovereign, whom he so well loved to honor. These and many other such like acts of violence were done by these rebels to those faithful ambassadors whilst in the discharge of their duty, yet did none of these things move or deter those faithful servants of King Alpha from the performance of their high commission, and they did both by persuasion and entreaty, strive to prevail with these rebellious men, to be reconciled to their offended Sovereign who was so willing to forgive them on such reasonable conditions, as their only hope depended on their so doing; and should they fail to do so after being duly warned and notified, King Alpha would send his army to take vengeance on, and miserably destroy those rebellious men. Peter with the rest of his fellow ambassadors, did not fail to declare these things unto them, by which reason many adhered to their words, and left the vile service of Abadon and joined the army of King Alpha; whereby the army of Light became greatly enlarged, and fought powerfully against the powers of Darkness, which still remained very numerous, for there were many more of the circumcision, still to remain in the service of Abadon, than to make peace with King Messiah and comply with the conditions offered by Peter and his associate ambassadors, and these rebels were set only the King of Darkness, to whom they yielded themselves servants to obey, and therefore did they lay violent hands on Peter and his fellow servants, putting some in prison, slaying some with the edge of the sword, and in other various ways did they put them to death. This being suffered by the great King of Light to be for his servants' good, whom he intended and had power to restore, and reward them for all they now suffered. Now sometimes in those days the King saw fit to despatch especial messengers from his majestic courts in the Celestial country, to deliver his faithful servants from the hands of his and their enemies; and these messengers being thus sent and empowered, at no time failed to perform the work whereunto they were sent, and Peter and others were also at times delivered by their interposition despite all these rebels could do, notwithstanding the particulars of which you reader may find more minutely described in King Alpha's record to which I refer you, as being a book worthy of your own or any other one's perusal. Now to return to the martyrdom of Stephen; there stood by at that time a young man named Saul, who was afterwards called Paul, the same consented unto his death holding the clothes of those who stoned him, thinking thereby that he did service to Alpha, as he was at that time in gross darkness, not having a knowledge of the truth as taught by the ambassadors of Messiah, so that what he did against his cause was more through ignorance, than through any evil he had in his heart against the cause of Messiah, for whom he and many others were looking still to come, not knowing that he had already come, and that it was him of whom Stephen spoke, he not knowing or believing. He was therefore exceedingly mad against the servants of Light, and that he might do them all the harm he could, for this cause sought he and procured power and authority from high officials in the army of Darkness to attack, bind and imprison all those he found in favor of the King of Light, or owned him as their King, or endeavored to induce others to do so. And now therefore having received letters from one high in command among the Circumcision, he journeyed from the city where Messiah himself had suffered violence whilst he sojourned among men on earth, to another city for the purpose of bringing to Jerusalem bound those he found calling on and acknowledging King Alpha. Now it came to pass while he thus journeyed, that the great and glorious King of Light beholding him from his lofty habitation, saw fit to display some of the effulgence of his light, which far exceeded that of the sun, and from the great brilliancy of its brightness, and the power accompanying it, this same Saul fell to the ground, and whilst lying in that humble position, he heard a voice speaking to him in his own language wherein he was born, and demanding of him: why persecutest thou me, to which question he replied, who art thou Lord, and was answered, I am he who was known by the name of Jesus, whom Peter and others proclaim to be the King of Light, it is hard for thee to kick against my power. He therefore trembling with fear and astonishment said, Lord what wilt thou have me do. 
               In reply, the King of Light told him to proceed to where he was going, and there it would be told him what he must do; and therefore being so informed from such a high authority, he proceeded on his journey. Being led by those who accompanied him, and having arrived there, being now blind from the effects of the exceeding great Light he had seen, when he heard the voice which said, "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest!" meaning that in doing so to his people, he considered it doing so to himself. And now having arrived at the city, to which he started, for the purpose of hailing men, women, and children who adhered to King Alpha, and acknowledged him as their rightful sovereign, whom now he himself from what he had seen and heard by the way, was fully convinced that he truly was the great and mighty Sovereign who was to come; therefore did he make many supplications to him, and also send up an earnest petition to him by the hands of Messrs. Faith, Repentance, and Contrition, accompanied by Mr. Wet-eyes, praying to him that he in his great mercy would forgive and pardon him for his past offences, and graciously receive him into his favor, acceptance, and service: promising that if he did he would faithfully perform whatever duty the king should enjoin upon him. 
               Therefore did our most gracious King Alpha grant his petition, and send him a message by the hand of one of his servants called Ananias, who at first did not want to go, as he had heard by many of the violence this same Saul had done against the cause of King Alpha, and to his people ple; but the king told him now to go, as this Saul who was now to be called Paul, was quite changed from his former state, and that he was chosen by him in his service, and that he would show him what great things he should suffer for his name-sake. Therefore did Ananias go and speak comfortable words unto him, calling him brother, commanding that he should receive his sight, and telling him that the king had sent him; even him that had appeared to him by the wayside as he came, that he might receive his sight, and be filled with the Comforter, who was hereafter to be his guide. 
               Now when Ananias had spoken unto him these words, immediately there fell from his eyes great scales; then did he immediately, conferring not with any of his former officers, under whose command he had fought so valiantly, renounce and prepare himself for the better service of King Alpha. to whom he took the oath of allegiance, and enlisted in his army to fight under the blood stained banner of the Cross, until the war should come to a close. So 
                     the the
                     the
                   King of Light gave him a very high commission in his service, making him an Ambassador, Trumpeter, and Watchman. Now at the first of his receiving his commission, he was unknown to the rest of the soldiers of the King of Light, who had known him only as a persecuter and an opposer of their glorious cause; but he soon increased so much in skill and valor, that he confounded those who were opposed to the cause which he now espoused; proving by an unanswerable argument that could not be successfully contradicted, that King Alpha was the rightful sovereign of all men, whom they were in duty bound to honor and obey. By his so doing, he soon so endeared himself to the soldiers of Light, that he was held by them in great esteem, insomuch that they were willing to have him for a leader in the army of the King of Light; and he truly did organize many divisions and regiments in his service; and well did he train and drill them, so that they became very expert in battle, and made great havoc in the army of Darkness, taking many captives and slaying many with the edge of the sword, which weakened the powers of Darkness very much, and strengthening that of Light. And as an ambassador of Peace he was very successful, causing the reconciliation of many who were in open rebellion against the King of Light to him; and although many ages have past since the days of this great champion, yet are some of the able letters and epistles written by him still extensively circulated, and are very popular, also as well as those of Peter, James, and John, and others, who were mighty warriors in their days, holding high positions, and were Ambassadors of Peace, as well as warriors; and most faithfully did they discharge the arduous duties that were imposed upon them as ambassadors; the same also did they as watchmen on the walls of Zion. 
               When seeing the sword coming, they failed not to warn the people; and as trumpeters, they blew the trumpet, giving it a certain sound when calling an alarm, that the soldiers might prepare for battle; they were also armed with the whole armor, and as well as the sword, the bow-arrows, and quiver, with which they wounded many. Very many who made application to the Comforter were healed by him, after which they willingly enlisted in the service of the King of Light, and died valiantly therein; and it is said of Paul, that in might, wisdom, power, and other necessary qualifications, he was not a whit behind the chief of those mighty warriors who were under Alpha, the founder of the walls of Zion. 
               Now it is generally admitted, that Peter stands foremost amongst the King's trumpeters; he standing first on the list of their names, and was the first to espouse his glorious cause, after his re-ascension to his Father's throne, and delivered the first great and memorial oration in behalf of the king, that took such great effect upon the rebels, that three thousand of them immediately laid down their weapons of rebellion, and took the oath of allegiance to the King of Light, and enlisted in his service, many of whom became very valiant for the truth. 
               Now the commission that was committed unto Peter, which is called the Gospel, including all the offices of Watchmen, Trumpeters, and Ambassadors, also Commanding Officer; in all of which he was mighty to perform, were chiefly to those who are called the Circumcision; whilst that the corresponding commission of Paul, was to the Uncircumcision, unto whom he was equally mighty; and in order to fill this mission, he traveled very extensively, negotiating with many sections of country, laying down conditions of peace when it could be done, and proclaiming to men the awful consequences of it not being done; and while reasoning on temperance and judgment to come to those who remained still in rebellion, there were those who trembled. But not being willing to yield immediate obedience, desired that for the present he might go his way, and at a more convenient season they would hear him concerning these matters. Thus did these foolish and rebellious men procrastinate these days of grace offered to them by the great and mighty King of Light through his ambassador, and we have no record to show that there ever came a time when it was more convenient for them to receive offered mercy than that which they refused; and there is reason to believe that through refusing the opportunity they then had, they never had another, and were in consequence consigned to endless imprisonment and woe, which has been the case with many thousands since that day, through their doing in the same like manner. Nevertheless though this was the case with some, yet there were many others who adhered to the words spoken by Paul, and forsook the vile service of Abadon and came and enlisted in the service of King Alpha, and became obedient soldiers in his cause and did much towards establishing his kingdom on earth, for some of them became officers high in command of the army of the King of Light, and did valuable service. Among those worthy of honorable mention are Timothy and Titus, the former being the highest officer in command of the army of the Ephesians; the latter the same in that of the Cretans, and from the very great responsibility that those high officers acquired, it is reasonable to suppose that they were both great and good men, or they would not likely have been placed in so high an office by the approval of such a wise and good commander as Paul; it is therefore fair to suppose that they each did valuable service in their day. Though history on earth is silent in regard to all their exploits, yet it is undoubtedly like all other matters of moment, recorded on high in the king's memorandum book, and will be read in due time. 
               In addition to the above operations of Paul, it is accorded to him to have been chiefly instrumental in forming the following divisions of the army of Light, viz: Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, and Thessalonians. Whether he organized all these divisions or not is uncertain, yet it is equally as certain that he negotiated largely with them, and also with the Hebrews; and his writings to them still are extant and very popular. Now the army produced many valiant soldiers and mighty conquerors, who fought, suffered, and bled for the glorious cause of King Alpha; they also fought many great battles, gained many victories, took many captives, and slew many foes by the edge of the sword, whilst many others were deeply wounded by the keen points of the arrows of conviction, shot by the watchmen who are the sharp-shooters in the army of Light. And after they had well fought, and had suffered enough, and their actions were approved by their king, they were by him called home from the field of battle to receive their bounty, and the reward of their labors in the Celestial Land, where they no more will suffer such things as they did in the terrestrial Country where many of them were tortured in various ways; some torn to pieces by wild beasts and burned at the stake, and beheaded for the cause in which they had enlisted. 
                
               This last named way Paul himself suffered; after having suffered very much in various other ways, and was after being highly approved by his king, by this means called home to reign with him, forever to receive a crown incorruptible, undefiled, and that fadeth not away. 
               This crown of never-fading glory Paul got a sight of, previous to his going up to enjoy it, and so did declare before his departure, affirming the righteous Judge would give it not only to him, but to all who loved his appearance; by his saying the Judge, he had a reference to King Alpha himself; for him alone has his Father appointed to be the Judge of all, and most righteously and justly will he dispose of all cases that shall come under his notice. 
               Now about the same time that commander Paul was called home from the field, his fellow-soldier and colleague, Peter, who was of such renown, having been much longer in the service than Paul, also was called home, having finished the great and mighty work whereunto he was appointed. Being so appointed by the king himself, whilst he sojourned in the terrestrial country, he being one of his chosen body-guards who accompanied him wheresoever he went. 
               But now having faithfully performed the work that was in his trust, the King having no more for him to do in the 
                     terestrial
                     terrestrial
                   country, therefore he saw fit to call him home where he might rest from his labor and receive the reward of labor due to the high position he had so faithfully filled. Now the way by which he entered through the gates of death into the presence 
                     aud
                     and
                   glory of his Lord, was by crucifixion, the same way that his master had done before, with the exception that he refused to be so done with his head upward as his master had been, considering himself unworthy to suffer in precisely the same way. Now the King of Light in his wisdom saw fit to let these mighty men fall by the hands of those men who were in rebellion against him, in order that his servants might have so much the greater reward when he would call them again from the dust to inherit with him the kingdom forever, for it was only the body that could die, the spirit being immortal could not. Now these great warriors having thus by the hands of their enemies to pass through the gates of death to the Celestial land did not take aught from their honor and glory, for it was given to them to suffer, bleed and die for their King's sake, after which they would gain a complete victory over Sin, Death and Hades and all their frightful powers; and receive from their King a very vast and great reward in his kingdom, and hear from him the welcome approbation of well done thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, enter into the joy of thy Lord, I will make thee ruler over many things. Thus were these great officers honorably discharged from service, and appointed to posts of great honor in the realms of light and eternal bliss near the king's presence. Now there lived in those days, a powerful servant of Abadon, even king under him, whose name was Nero; the same made war with the servants of light, and many besides Peter and Paul were cruelly slain by him, after having suffered much persecution at his hands; but he also was soon called by Alpha, to give an account of his stewardship, and was for rebellion assigned to prison and woe, without the hope of ever coming out again. But to return, there were many other mighty warriors in the army of light who lived in those same days, who equally distinguished themselves with Peter and Paul and died at length in the honors of war, who are worthy of honorable mention, and whose names are on the king's record. There was James who fought, suffered and soon went home; there was also John, whom it seems lived some time after all the rest of the first chosen twelve had went home from works to reward. Though it was not because there was no attempt made on his life, but the king of light had miraculously delivered him at various times from the hands of his enemies, and it seems notwithstanding all their vain endeavors to destroy his life, yet he lived to form or command mand seven divisions or corps, in the district of Asia.-Namely: Ephesia, Smyrna, Pergamos, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea. For it is well known that he sent to them special written orders, which he received immediately from the mouth of King Alpha himself; and these orders are still in force in every branch of the army, and are the greatest ever recorded, telling them to overcome; and what would be their great reward if they did so. In them there is a reproof to all but one division, viz: Philadelphia; which seems to have been so well drilled, and to have conducted themselves so well as to have deserved no reproof, but rather of approbation, which the King was not slack in giving them. 
               Now this same John was also called the follower of Messiah, because he loved and was so loved by him, leaning often on his breast in the days of his sojourn in the terrestrial country, and after his departure to the Celestial most honorably and nobly did he serve him in the three high positions, of an Apostle, an Evangelist and a Divine. The first was a position held by each of the King's first twelve chosen servants, and consisted in their divine commission being received immediately from his mouth in person, while he was yet with them, the fulfilling of which commission was greatly to the furtherance and prosperity of the cause of the kingdom of light, being the foundation on which it was laid. The office of an Evangelist consisted in the writing of a lively description of the entrance of the King of Light into the terrestrial country, his mighty deeds and acts whilst here, including his contact with the world, Abadon, Sin and Death; his battles with, and his victory over all their combined powers, and his re-ascension to his throne in the Celestial country, the publishing of which to the men that then lived, and to all succeeding generations. Nothing could be more to the prosperity of the glorious cause of the King of Light, and to the injury of Abadon's vile cause; and most faithfully did this servant perform this noble duty, and has left on record the evidence of the same. His commission as a Divine, consisted in his having an interview with the King of Light after his departure to the Celestial country, in which he was duly informed of the very great things the King intended to do for his faithful servants, and of his permanently establishing his kingdom in the Celestial country, to which happy place he intends to remove his faithful servants, after they have finished the work that he has given them to do. And they as soldiers have fought well his battles, and have gained a complete victory over all his and their foes he intends to build for them in that land a very great and glorious city, such as no other king has ever at any time built for his subjects, the walls thereof being very great and high, built of all manner of precious stones, the gates being richly set with pearl, and the very streets being paved with gold, in which city sickness, sorrow, pain and death can never come, but instead, great joy pleasure and happiness shall ever reign without intermission. 
               The sight of these glorious things the king gave unto his servant John to see and describe to others, before calling him home from the field of battle; he also was shown the punishment the king would inflict upon his adversaries who had rebelled against him, which punishment would last forever and ever; and faithfully did his servant write and deliver these things to the sons of men. These records have been handed down from then until now, and will continue to be unto all succeeding generations, until time shall end. 
               Now this great soldier having well fought the battles of his king, and fulfilled his commission, was also called home from the battle field to receive the approbation of his King, and the reward of all his labors. One Polycarp, was said to be his immediate successor, who also performed his duty faithfully; and after repeatedly being miraculously saved from death by his king, was called home to receive his reward in the Celestial City; and one Ignatius was said to be his successor, in whose day the army of Light having increased, had many great conflicts with Abadon's army, so that he also with many others belonging to the army of Light, fell martyrs to the glorious cause they espoused. Yet their fall by no means hurt the prosperity of King Alpha's government, which in spite of all the attacks of Abadon's forces, continued to prosper and increase, for it, by King Alpha, being once began, could be by no power, brought to an end. The king himself being omnipotent in wisdom and power, and unspeakably brave. And the resolute and bold defenders of his glorious cause, partaking of the nature of their king, and the numerous soldiers composing his army, partaking of the same material, it was therefore invulnerable to all the attacks of the enemy, and was destined to go on conquering and to conquer, until time shall be no more. 
               So these valiant soldiers, in those days of severe trials, quitted themselves like men, and died triumphantly on the field of battle, and was buried with the honors of war, their inner man being conducted and escorted by a guard of honor into the Celestial City, to the presence of their king, and received his approbation and approval of their conduct, whilst being soldiers in his army militant in the terrestrial country. And thus the Kingdom of Light progressed, and was prosperous under the government of the allwise and almighty King Alpha, who kept and maintained a standing army of bold and valiant soldiers at an incalculable cost of blood and treasure, insomuch that no other king but the glorious King of Light could keep and maintain at his own expense, so vast an army, for so long a period, and pay them each large wages and an exceeding great bounty, when their term of service had expired. For as we have before said, the primitive organization of this army was of very ancient date, and will be maintained until time shall be no more. 
               Now after the first formation of this army, as time progressed, there were in the different districts of the King of Light's dominions on the earth, different divisions of the army instituted to suit each district. Those districts as time progressed, assumed different names from what they formerly were known by: and we may as we proceed in our relation of these great and momentous things and events, take notice of what were the former names of some of these districts, and what their present name is, and also state some of the great results that formerly and latterly took place in them through the operations of the contending armies, for they were occupied in turns by both the army of Light, and that also of Darkness. And it is recorded that many of these districts were visited by King Alpha's twelve first Ambassadors of Peace, in order to negotiate with the inhabitants thereof, that they might lay down their weapons of rebellion, and be reconciled to him, and also to enlist them as volunteers in his army in those places and districts. And I am happy to record that they were very successful in obtaining recruits, many of whom became very valiant soldiers in the good cause. But I am very sorry to say, this by no means was the case with all, for many, very many, still adhered to Abadon's vile cause, and remained in his army, greatly opposing the army and cause of the King of Light; nevertheless, his glorious cause was faithfully maintained by them, and their successors in arms. 
               Now to give a description or outline of the different districts and divisions of the army of Light, it is necessary for me to return to the formation of the first army, which was called Christian or Evangelical; it having as we have before said, been organized by the king himself in person, in the land and districts of Judea, which was Palestine, and in the vicinity of Jerusalem its Capital City; there was the first great battle fought, as we have before said by the king in person; at which time he entered the field single-handed against Abadon, Sin, and Death, and all their combined powers and forces, gaining that great and decisive victory over them all, which has, and will be spoken of while endless ages last. He having so done and in that same city, taught his chosen soldiers all the arts of war, and gave them their instructions, and commissioned them to go forth from thence to all nations, kindreds, and tongues, and in every district to form a division of the army of Light. Now as before said, there were two grand divisions which composed the army of Light on earth, viz:-the Jewish and Gentile divisions, or as they were formerly called, the Circumcision and the Uncircumcision; the former after its organization having been committed to the charge of Peter as aforesaid, as was also the latter, to the charge of Paul. Now the first division of the army of Light occupied the Land of Judea, the country where the king himself made his first appearance, and to that land chiefly was its operation confined. 
               Time would fail to tell of the many great battles fought and victories gained by this great and noble division of the army, and also of the many great heroes who in it fought, conquered, and bled, and after doing great exploits in the service of their king, was by him called home from the battle field, having fulfilled their commissions, and were therefore honorably discharged, and received at his hands the rewards of merit due. The same may also be truly said of the other heroic soldiers and champions who fought and held honorable positions in the Gentile grand division of the army. 
             
             
                
               PART THIRD. 
                
                  THE GENTILE GRAND DIVISION. 
                  Now this division was very extensive, comprising all of the inhabitable parts of the globe, with the exception of the aforesaid Land of Judea, and therefore in consequence of its occupying so vast an extent of territory, and the great length of time it has been in existence, to give a minute account of all its operations, would require a history more voluminous than any that is known to exist in the terrestrial country. But it is said that the king in the 
                        terrestaial
                        terrestrial
                      country, keeps a minute account of all the operations of each grand division, and moreover of every act done by each and every individual soldier composing the army, to which they may all hereafter have free access; but as it may be very long before that time comes, and there may be some who are not now soldiers in the army of Light, and who if they do not enlist may never have the opportunity of knowing these important things; therefore it is hoped that by a rehearsal of some of the more important matters in these great campaigns, whilst it may be interesting and encouraging to the soldiers now in the field, it might also induce others who are not, to enlist in the service of our king. Now many of the leading transactions of the first grand division of the army, have as aforesaid, been faithfully recorded, and these records being generally accessible to all, it will therefore be our duty to notice more particularly, the doings of the second, or in other words, the Gentile grand division of the army. Now in the district of Asia, in that country, there were several divisions formed, viz:-the Roman, which was instituted in a very powerful and extensive district, comprising many nations who were subject to the same laws and had been for many years ruled by a succession of rulers who were called Csars, who had unlimited control over the affairs of those nations, although they each maintained their own distinct names, yet as they had been subdued by the aforesaid Csars, we therefore include them in the Roman district, as they were formerly so. 
                  But in process of time the Roman power was lost, and the various nations who had been under their control resumed their own rules and regulations. Now these nations and others that then existed, had in time their own districts and divisions called after their own individual names, some of which it may here be proper to state what they were then called, viz:-Ethiopia, Egypt, Troy, Greece, Achia, Parthia. Media, Elemites, Mesopotamia, Cappadocia, Pontus, Libya, Cyrene, Cretia, Cicilia, Arabia, and many other nations and districts too numerous to mention, all of which were in time visited by some of the officers of the King of Light, and in many of them there were large and strong divisions organized, and powerful battles fought, and mighty victories gained on the side, and in favor of the Kingdom of Light. 
                  Now in the Roman division next to that of the Judea division did the greatest events occur, and many valiant heroes after fighting many battles and conquering many foes, fell at length themselves on the field of battle, and were buried in the honors of war, the immortal part going from thence into the presence of their King, there to receive his approval and the reward of merit due. Among whom as aforesaid was Peter and Paul, the latter it is believed was the founder of this division, and it is certain that he commanded and wrote to it a celebrated war order; the same is still extant, but as the acts of both these mighty warriors first and last, have been elsewhere noticed, I need not here enlarge upon them, but to return to more minutely notice the operations of this branch of the army, which became very numerous as it was oft recruited by many volunteers, who fought very valiantly in the army of Light, against the powers of darkness, who in this district fought hard against the King of Light. And here was all the artillery of the Kingdom of Darkness levelled at the soldiers of light, who being armed with the whole armor, as steadfastly resisted all of the advances of the enemy as they were made. And here also was the Visible and Invisible armies oft set in battle array, and in the invisible army, millions fell in the cause in which they aspired, sealing their love and loyalty to their king with their blood. For in this district it came to pass, that there was much blood shed by the soldiers of Light, who loved not their lives unto death that they might please him who had chosen them as soldiers, and fight his battles well; and although by the many arts and schemes of the enemy, and his various engines and inventions of cruel torture, the bodies of many heroes fell, yet their inward or spiritual part did always in every instance prevail against their foe, who was always put to flight and driven from the field in disorder; for although the rebel armies were generally led and commanded by Abadon in person, accompanied by his staff, and assisted by his three commanders-in chief, the lust of the eye, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life, yet were they put to flight, when the army of light was marshalled against them, being led on to battle and certain victory by the Comforter, who for this cause was dispatched by King Alpha from the Celestial country. Having a full staff of able and competent officers, among whom were generals Faith, Hope, and Charity, these same were mighty in battle. And Charity, though last named was by no means least, for to him or her rather is accorded to be the greatest of the three, for though the others are very great and mighty warriors, yet it is possible for them sometimes to fail when coming into contact with death; for there is to them a limited time in which to finish their commission in the terrestrial land, and when that is done, they having finished their work, which is to lead the various divisions on through all that may oppose them, to the river which is called the 
                        Jordon
                        Jordan
                      of death, and point them to the beautiful country on the other side, for it is this river that divides the terrestrial from the Celestial Land, where the King dwells in his beauty. They when having accomplished this great work, resign their further charge of those divisions they have led thus far, and die as it were to these and these to them. Now it must be remembered that it is the souls of those valiant soldiers who have fought and conquered, and not their bodies which are thus led by Faith and Hope, to the border of the Celestial country, and as they can go no further, they then return to lead and escort other divisions who have completed their term of service to the same blessed place. And be it said to their praise, they have led many millions of valiant and victorious soldiers thus far, and it is to them that the king has entrusted to lead many, if not all of his conquering hosts that are yet to come to the same place. Now general Hope encourages the soldiers of light much, by a representation of the glory of the Celestial land, and in it the exceeding great bounty which the King will give them when the war comes to a close. General Faith also keeps a correct map of that country, in which its boundary, its hills, its rivers, and brooks and vales, are beautifully delineated; and also a description of its delightful fountains, and delicious fruit, and the general produce of the soil, together with the customs and pleasures of that land. Now the looking over this map is greatly to the encouragement of the soldiers of light, while they are encamped on the battle field; and while they are at leisure they often look therein and read to their comfort, the geographical description thereof; and when they are not engaged in battle, the attentive perusal thereof, greatly invigorates and encourages those who read; and against the day of battle comes on, to fight that they may obtain all those great and glorious things spoken of as above. General Faith also keeps a mighty telescope, the looking through of which brings the most distant prospects to view, and when the soldiers of light from the hills and mountain tops, are permitted to look through it, they discover at a glance the whole Celestial country, including the great city wherein the King dwells with its walls of precious stones, and its pearly gates and gold-paved streets; and happy are they who are permitted to look through Faith's telescope, and view the beauties of that place; the sight of which often so enraptures the soldiers of light, that they desire to go to possess and enjoy their bounty there. But as they know they must fight their way through ere they can enjoy it, it is to encourage them thus to fight, that general Faith gives them to view through his telescope, the glorious land of promise. But to have a too constant view thereof, has a tendency to make those who do, sick with desire to enjoy it; therefore it is not until they have fought their way through, and stand on the bank of the river, that they are to have so clear and constant a view thereof. Now generals Faith and Hope are veterans in the regular army of the King, and therefore long and deeply experienced in all the arts of war; Faith has also been a constant attendant on all the soldiers of light from the beginning; and will remain so to be, until the last soldier shall be called home from the battle field. And many great exploits it has been recorded have been done by the servants of light in all ages through Faith, for he was with the King himself when he formed the world, and by him was commissioned to attend his servants through all their many conflicts in life; and through him there were some who chose rather to suffer affliction in Alpha's army, than to enjoy pleasure in Abadon's army for a season, esteeming the reproaches of Alpha's greater riches, rather than the treasures of this world. Others through Faith subdued kingdoms and other mighty works, such as stopping the mouth of lions, quenching the violence of fire, escaping the edge of the sword, out of weakness was made strong, waxed valiant liant in fight, and put to flight the armies of the aliens and many other like things too numerous to mention, through his assistance; for he was a great favorite with the King, and without his aid it is impossible to please him; for they who come to the King either to present themselves or a petition, must always be accompanied by Faith; otherwise neither themselves nor their petition are acceptable unto him, and yet notwithstanding all these things, Faith can only lead them to the river, but cannot go across. But it is left for great Charity after starting with them in the beginning, to still remain with them and accompany them across the river into the Celestial country, and there ever remain with them. Being herself an inhabitant of that land, and belonging to the King's court and to his cabinet, and was one of them who with Mercy plead with the Father and the Son in man's behalf, and it is believed had it not been for her pleading, together with that of Princess Mercy, the Father nor the Son, nor yet the Comforter would ever have undertaken for man, and paid the great price of his redemption. Now as we have somewhat enlarged on a description of Faith, it is but just that we should also give some description of Charity, who is termed a female, and she is of a royal lineage, being closely connected with Mercy, who is a very near relation to King Alpha himself, and therefore partaking of his divine nature. Her presence is always essential to the soldiers of light, for though they might have ever so much wisdom, knowledge or understanding, or have power to do through Faith's assistance, all these mighty works that can be done through him, even to the removing of mountains, yet if Charity is not with them and has no part in the work, it is nevertheless all nothing and vain; for let them have ever so much seeming good in them, they must yet be sanctioned by Charity to have the approval of their King, for this is described to be her character. She is long suffering and is kind, she envieth not, vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up, doeth not behave herself unseemly ly, and seeketh more the King's glory than her own. She is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, she rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in truth. She beareth all things, and believeth all things in the king's record, and hopeth the fulfilment of his every promise, and endureth all things; and let whoever or whatever may fail, yet she never has or never will fail. And because she has all these great qualities the king greatly delighteth in her, and entrusteth her with affairs of the kingdom of great magnitude as there is no danger that she ever will betray her trust.-And she is of the utmost importance in the army of light, as her presence so invigorates the soldiers, that they can by her aid put all their foes to flight, for her presence is an insurance of victory to the soldiers of light. Now these great and mighty officers had this particular nature of the king, that they like him had the power to be present with each and every branch of the army at one and the same time, to aid them whenever their assistance was needed, so that with them and many other able and competent officers who al! with the united armies, were under the great and almighty Comforter's command, it was not strange that the army of light was always more than a match for the army of darkness. Time would fail to enumerate and characterize all the able officers of the army of light. But as we proceed in our history of the rise and progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness, it will require us to take further notice of many of the different officers, and the positions they held in their different armies; we need not here enlarge, and as we in our former edition, took some small notice of the generals in the army of darkness, we need not here give a full description of them; but suffice it to say for the present, they were equally as earnest in the defence of their king, as the servants of light. And strongly did generals lust of the eye and lust of the flesh and pride of life, oppose the establishing of the kingdom of light on the earth. Now the lust of the eye in this wise tries to support the cause of Abadon, by using much deception, and pretending to be very friendly to the servants of light, and also to those of darkness. He also like faith has a telescope, but of a very different nature, as it reverses everything seen through it, not giving them their true appearance, for when looking through it the glories of the terrestrial appear more great than that of the Celestial, so that they who are deceived through looking in it, take more delight in the things of the terrestrial, than of those of the Celestial country, insomuch that they think it not worth while to fight their way through to that country, whilst they can have and enjoy one equally as good without fighting; therefore as many as are in the army of Light, and are deceived as above by Lust of the Eye, they immediately desert and enlist in the army of Darkness; and those who are already in have no desire to leave it, as they consider they are as well off where they are, as they can otherwise be, and at all events they are willing to run the risk of losing all that Faith, Hope, and Charity promises, so that they may continue to enjoy that which they already have. Thus does the Lust of the Eye endeavor to weaken the army of Light, and strengthening that of Darkness, and it is much to be lamented that he is too successful in his wicked efforts to serve the king. 
                  The Lust of the Flesh is also a mighty champion for Abadon, and there are few if any, of all Abadon's officers that does more to support his kingdom than this same Lust of the Flesh, and very many thousands has he slain, wounded, and taken into captivity even after they have enlisted in the service of Alpha; for he has many orchards of fruit pleasant to the eye and pleasing to the taste, but are yet of such a poisonous nature that they who partake thereof, are certain to die unless they through faith, who alone can heal them through the interposition of the Comforter, who when sent applies the balm of sovereign love, which can both make the wounded whole and purge those who have partaken of the fruit that grows in the Lust of the Flesh's orchards from the poisonous effects thereof. 
                   
                  Now this application must be done in due time, for there is a possibility of being too late, and there are many who being in Abadon's service, never make application to King Alpha until it is too late. For the Lust of the Flesh sometimes takes such a powerful hold on mankind that nothing less than power Divine can release them from his strong embrace; therefore it is highly necessary to make application to King Alpha in due time, who is himself a doctor of such great skill that he can apply such remedies as is certain to effect a sure cure. 
                  And this officer Conscience fails not to declare unto them, making them fully sensible that unless they make application to King Alpha in due time, they must certainly die from the effects of partaking of the forbidden fruit, which grows in the Lust of the Flesh's garden. And when application is properly made to the king and sent by the hands of Faith and Repentance, together with Contrition, then the king immediately sends the Comforter to their relief, who after having effectually cured them, enlists them into the service of the king; and while they remain steadfast in his service, the Lust of the Flesh cannot prevail against them. 
                  The Pride of Life also is very busily engaged in striving to ruin the soldiers of Light, and hold those still in bondage and rebellion who are soldiers in Abadon's army. Now the way he endeavors to effect this, is by giving them a high and an exalted opinion of their own worth, merit, and ability; and those who hearken unto his teachings do not give the glory that is due to the King of Light, for the favors which all receive from his bountiful hands. But instead, they take the glory to themselves, for favors received, as though it was their due, or gained by their own might and power; and they are puffed up with what they possess, and look with contempt on others who are less favored than they, with the things of the terrestrial country, and they value themselves much in the possession of all they have; although these things are not their own, but are the gifts of the King of Light, who witholds not the good things of this life from any, whether they be friends or foes, for he giveth freely to all. 
                  Now the pride of life also causes those who are deceived by him to think themselves superior to others, to have their affections so attached and glued to the things of the terrestrial Country, and to take such great delight in them as to have no relish or desire for the things of the Celestial Country, so they can only enjoy the present comfort; thus does the pride of life alienate the minds of men from their rightful sovereign, and keep them in subjection to Abadon, thereby strengthening his vile cause. And thus does these three great champions of Abadon leading their hosts, keep up a continual warfare against the army of Light; but nevertheless great Faith, Hope, and Charity, are always more than their match in battle, and through their valor and skill many great and decisive battles have been fought and victories won, by both the Jewish and Gentile grand divisions of the army of Light, to accomplish which many mighty heroes fell in the ages of our history spoken of as above, and also in many succeeding ages, for on the side of Abadon and in every division of his army, there were such vile ones employed as Messrs. Anger, Malice, Hatred, Envy, Illwill, Prejudice, Cruelty, and Hardheart, who were prime officers under his command; and they all took great delight in shedding the blood of the soldiers of Light, and this they did in great abundance, in co-operation with many of Abadon's servants, who held high positions in the different divisions of Abadon's army, for he had divisions of long standing in all the districts aforesaid in which King Alpha had more latterly organized divisions, for the purpose of defeating and destroying them. 
                  Now in the Roman divisions, it is supposed upon good authority, there was the most blood shed, and that in it some of the most momentous and thrilling events occurred. Now the true soldiers of Light, did not in their warfare, shed the blood of their fellow-men, for it was not against flesh and blood that they contended, but against principalities and powers, and spiritual wickedness in high places; even the Prince of Darkness, who is termed the Prince of the power of the Air, who then and now works in the children of disobedience, therefore they then took delight in shedding the blood of the servants of light, this being the worst they could do to them; for although to any other than a soldier of Light, this would be an irretrievable loss, for they, losing this present life and having no hope of the life which is to come, they who are thus situated are therefore utterly undone; but this by no means is the case with a soldier of Light, for their king has so ordained it, that whosoever shall lose his life for his sake, they shall find it again, to a much greater advantage than at the first. The soldiers of Light knowing this and having also been told by their king to fear not those who kill the body, and after that can do no more, but rather fear him who can kill both soul and body; therefore they did not regard the shedding of their own blood or the losing of their temporal life, for they knew their body being termed their terrestrial house, and that when it was dissolved, their king had prepared for them a house not made with hands, of eternal duration in the Celestial Country, where they would rest from all their labors and fighting, and receive the approbation of their king, together with an honorable discharge, and exceeding great bounty. 
                  Now it is to be remembered that the bodies of the soldiers of Light being slain as above by their enemies, by no means lessens their victory over their foes, for conquest by a soldier of light consists not in the shedding the blood of their foes, but in the subduing of their spirits and making them subject to the laws of King Alpha, and in this they were very successful in the ages referred to above, though it cost them much suffering in many and various ways, yet were their love so great to their king, that they were willing to suffer all things for his sake and the building up of his kingdom on earth; and for this cause they suffered the loss of all things, knowing they thereby would in the end gain all things, and in order to obtain the promised reward, there were many millions who suffered, bled, and died in the most cruel manner, that Abadon and his officers could invent, and the tortures were great and many that they did invent and inflict upon the soldiers of Light, for many succeeding generations in the Gentile grand division. The same also had been previously done in the Jewish grand division, to whom King Alpha had come himself, and time after time had sent his ambassadors who were by them cruelly put to death, until at length he in his righteous displeasure, in justice gave them over for a time to the power of Abadon, Sin, and Death; for as they utterly refused to have the King of Light to reign over them, therefore he suffered them to fall into the hands of the King of Darkness, who with his subordinate powers still continues to hold them in bondage even up to this day, and will continue to do so until they shall believe and acknowledge King Alpha to be their rightful sovereign, which it is believed they will at some future period do. 
                  But to return to the Gentile grand division. Abadon through the instrumentality of many fleshly kings continued for many ages to afflict and put to death in the most cruel manner the servants of Light, until at length King Alpha raised up a king, who in his name made war with, and subdued those wicked and oppressive kings, and thus released the soldiers of Light from their cruelty and oppression; then did Zion the capitol of the Kingdom of Light in the terrestrial Country prosper abundantly for a time and a season. This greatly offended Abadon, who saw plainly that unless he devised some means to save his falling kingdom it must soon come to an end; he therefore called a council of war to take into consideration what way best to prevent this great disaster to him; now Abadon if need be, can transform himself into the appearance of a servant of Light, which he did on this occasion, as his object was to deceive, And therefore he called together his prime ministers, viz:-Messrs. Deceit, Deception, Hypocrisy, Formality, 
                        Uutruth
                        Untruth
                     , Unbelief, Worldly-honor, Love of Applause, Vain Glory, Superstition, Bigotry, and Perversion. 
                  Now these thirteen in person did he confer with at that time, and their decision was agreed to and endorsed by all the powers of Darkness; and thus did they decide and determine that in the district of Rome, there should be an army organized under the same name and title of that of King Alpha's and pretending to have the same object in view; and finally to pretend that it was King Alpha's army organized by himself and continued by his followers, and that his servant Peter was after himself, its next general head, and that the head officers whom Abadon appointed, styling them Popes, were the immediate successors of Peter having all of his power and authority as derived from the King of Light himself; thus did Abadon in this time of peace, attempt to deceive men through the instrumentality of Deceit and Deception and the rest of his unholy cabinet; and it is to be much lamented that he was by far too successful, for as he and his ministers by disguising themselves could appear to men to be the servants of Light, thereby very many were deceived through the lack of hearkening diligently unto Mr. Truth, who always stands ready to set men aright when they are wrong. Also Mr. Faith was and is ever ready to lead those who will adhere to him, to the great city of Zion, and into the favor of their king, and finally to the banks of the river which divides the Celestial from the terrestrial country; and from thence to give them a view through his telescope, of the borders of the Celestial Land and the gold paved city where King Alpha dwells. 
                  But through the intrigues of Abadon together with his numerous colleagues in crime, there were very many who would not hearken to Mr. Truth, nor give heed to Mr. Faith, or look through his telescope, but shut their eyes against the Kingdom of Light and would not come to it, lest their evil deeds should be brought to light. For being deceived by Abadon, they preferred the Kingdom of Darkness rather than that of Light. So the Kingdom of Darkness prospered greatly in those days, and because that iniquity abounded, the love of many waxed cold towards the King of Light and his government as he had foretold; moreover the love that had once existed between one and another in the army of Light, by the having of which as the king had before said, all men should know that they were his followers, and by which sign they themselves were to know that they were in his service, had been noticed previous to this by some who were not themselves soldiers of Light, and they had seen how these soldiers of Light loved one another, but now their love to each other were not as warm as it formerly was. 
                  Since the organization of Abadon's false army, which dare not come out in its true colors, lest it should be known by the soldiers of Light, which it was not his design should be the case, lest it should have a tendency to frustrate his dark and malicious purposes, it was one of Alpha's special commandments and war orders, that his soldiers should love one another, this being the next greatest war order to the one in which he commanded them to love himself with all their heart, and with all their soul, and with all the power that in them lay. 
                  Now the keeping of these two commandments fulfills the whole law of King Alpha, and while his soldiers do so, there is no power or scheme of the enemy, can by any means prevail against them; and this Abadon very well knows, and 
                        therefere
                        therefore
                      sent his servant Discord to sew the seed of contention and strife, among the different divisions of the army of light, but more especially the Roman division. Now this Discord is Abadon's chief husbandman, and he attends well to his occupation; for before he sews his seed he takes care to prepare the ground well for receiving it, and after it is sown he takes the utmost pains to cultivate it, that it may bring forth fruit abundantly; thus did he at that time, and these roots of bitterness springing ing up thereby, many were defiled, which need not have been the case if the soldiers of light had taken more heed to the warning voice of one of the ancient high officers of the army; and had they also been careful to have let the plough-share of the Gospel run deep through the soil, it would undoubtedly have cut up these roots, so that they would not have sprung up so abundantly, nor have brought fruit to such perfection. But as they were too much at ease in Zion, and therefore did not use these necessary precautions, hence did Abadon succeed in raising a large crop of discontent and strife, which he sent to Messrs. Untruth and Unbelief and others in disguise, to trade and to traffic with the soldiers of light, which their partaking of so affected and poisoned their minds that many of them went beside themselves, insomuch that they mistook their friends for their foes, and their foes for their friends, and light for darkness, and right for wrong; and finally they were so crazed in their minds, that they mistook Alpha for Abadon, and consequently yielded themselves subjects to him and his agents, and therefore took sides with his dark powers against the soldiers of light. Now this brought much confusion into the army of light, and for a time it was difficult to tell which was the true soldiers of light, or distinguish between them and those of darkness. Nevertheless, when truth who was appointed by King Alpha to review the army of light, which he often did, and when he on these occasions drew the army up in line of battle to be reviewed, it was easy for those who had eyes, to distinguish the vast difference between true soldiers of light and those who were not, for their uniform and armor are of a quite different make, for there is no such swords, helmets, breastplates, shields, buckles or sandals manufactured; neither can be in all the terrestrial country, as those worn by the true soldiers of light, which are prepared by the King's chief workmen in the Celestial land; moreover when you come to view them closely, they are each marked in the forehead with the king's own signature, which cannot be easily counterfeited so as to not be detected by an experienced eye; also their manner of going through their exercise is different from others, and their whole deportment must be different in order to stand the test of truth. Now this marked difference have the soldiers of light from others, that is, the weapons of their warfare are not carnal, but mighty through Alpha, to the pulling down of the strongholds of the powers of darkness; for it is not in connection with their duty in this warfare to shed the blood of men, neither will a true soldier of light wilfully do so for he has good will to all men, and like his King, he delighteth not in the death of any, but rather that all should return to him and live. And it is for this cause that they war not that they may destroy men's life, but that they may save them from the power of Abadon, and take them captives into the army of light, that they may obtain his favor, receive his pardon, and be admitted into his presence with joy, to dwell with him forever and be happy, which is the grand object of their warfare, to defeat which Abadon as aforesaid organized his false army and fought under false colors, pretending that his army was the true army of light, and that his cause was that of King Alpha's; but was nevertheless careful that the seed sown and cultivated by discord, should have a large circulation in the army of light, which caused the confusion referred to above; and brought on a division and dissolution of the union that had so long existed, and thus promoting and producing a greater rebellion than had ever previously been, and the soldiers which ought to have been fighting on the same side, were found fighting against each other, which, while it was displeasing to Alpha, it was very pleasing to Abadon. Now the great distinction between the true and the false army was this: That the true soldiers fought not with carnal weapons, but with spiritual and mighty weapons as aforesaid, which had not the effect of shedding the blood of their fellow-men, but of wounding their spirits and causing them to apply to the Comforter to be healed. But the false army whose weapons were carnal took great delight in shedding the blood of all those who opposed them, or differed from them in opinion; and thus it was at this time, the false army was making provisions for the flesh to fulfill the lusts thereof, and taking great delight in the things of the terrestrial land, and setting their affections thereon instead of setting them on the things of the Celestial country, as all men should do, that alone being the place where eternal rest and happiness is to be found, for here is not their rest, and this the true soldier of light very well knoweth, and therefore they neither seek nor expect it here, nor do they have their minds fixed on the gay and glittering things of this world, nor love them. For king Alpha hath said by the mouth of one of his servants, that if any man loveth the world, the love of the Father is not in him. In this then is the line of demarcation between the true and the false army; the true working under the principle of love and using persuasive means, while the false are working on a different principle, and attempts to force men into their measures. And to accomplish this, the false army commenced a greater persecution against the true army than had ever been known to exist, even in the undisguised army of Abadon, which was sufficient evidence that the disguised was not the true army of light, as it professed to be, for Abadon made great calculations on the service this false army would be to his cause; therefore he gave all his attention, power and skill, together with all his associates in the support thereof, it being under his immediate direction, and led by his servant Pope, who made greater havoc among the bodies of the soldiers of light, than had ever been done by his servant Pagan, that ancient destroyer of all that was good; who, although he had previously exercised very great cruelties among the soldiers of light, yet he came far short of what was afterwards practiced by Pope; who according to reliable records, must have shed rivers of the blood of the true soldiers of light, who suffered it to be done for the love they bore their king, knowing that thereby they could best please him and promote his righteous cause; for to die in the defence thereof was and is the most complete victory over Abadon, Sin and Death, that can by any other means be obtained; and when they have so done, then the king receives them immediately into his presence, and saith to them, well done ye good and faithful servants, ye have been faithful over a few things, I will make ye rulers over many, enter ye into the joy of thy Lord. He then appoints unto each of them a kingdom, and commands that they be arrayed in splendid and costly apparel, and places on their heads glittering crowns of never-fading glory, and has them escorted by a guard of honor, to the very great and splendid mansions he had previously prepared for them, where they shall rest from all their labor; and moreover be permitted to sit down with their king at his table and feed on all the dainties of the Celestial country, which will more than reward them and their successors for all their past sufferings. The knowledge of this is what encouraged those warriors to be faithful in the service of their king, which they truly were notwithstanding all they suffered by the hands of Pope and his subordinates, who all conspired with a great beast that rose up out of the sand of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and was a very terrible monster indeed, unto whom Abadon gave his powers and authority, and commanded that all the kings of the terrestrial land should be subject unto him, and pay him homage, and reverence him even as they did Abadon himself, and as many as were subject to Abadon obeyed this command. Now this beast having received power and authority from Abadon, proceeded to make war with the soldiers of light, in all the different divisions of the army through all the terrestrial country, and he so prevailed as to kill the bodies of great numbers of the soldiers of light, in the various divisions of the army of occupation. And to further and accomplish this malicious design, there were formed what were called inquisitions, formed for the express press purpose of ascertaining who were the true soldiers of light, and decoying them into the hands of Abadon's tormentors, who in these inquisitions tortured them in the most cruel manner, putting them to the most exquisite pain by various infernal inventions. Such as pulling them asunder with windlasses, and putting them on racks of torture, and wheels having sharp teeth wherewith to cut and give them great pain, and many other such like inventions. Now all this was done to cause them to do homage to Abadon and the beast, and to be subject to the command of the Pope who falsely claims to be the commander-in-chief of the army of light. And all the aforesaid cruelties were done for the professed purpose of causing men to enlist under command of the Pope, and many whose names were not enrolled in king Alpha's army list to avoid such severe persecution and suffering, enlisted under the command of the Pope; others again were deceived, and allured thereinto through the many schemes and devices of Abadon, the Beast, the Pope, and their emissaries. But the true soldiers of Light who had been well instructed and taught by Mr. Truth and the King's Watchman, appointed thereunto by the Comforter, they would not, for any of these things, desert from the true army of Light, and become subject to, or enlist in the army of Abadon, commanded by the Beast and Pope; neither could they be deceived by Mr. Untruth Unbelief, or any of Abadon's other orators, appointed thereunto by Mr. Carnality, a close kinsman to Abadon, and having the control of his affairs in general in the terrestrial country; and therefore having great power and influence, yet they could not prevail against the true soldiers of Light, whose love to their king was stronger than death. And therefore for his sake they were willing to suffer all that could be inflicted upon them; 
                        chosing
                        choosing
                      rather to die in his service, than to live in the service of Abadon. For as I have before said, to die for his sake, was to gain a complete victory over all the powers of Darkness; for though the bodies of these valiant heroes, suffered all these things at the hands of those tyrants, yet their spirits were always victorious over these foes to themselves and their king, who professing to sustain his cause, and to be his servants, were yet nevertheless his and their inveterate foes, and exerted all their powers to destroy his kingdom, both by shedding the blood of his servants, and endeavoring to deceive them, and thereby to get them into the service of Abadon. 
                  Now these things continuing many years, there were doubtless, unnumbered millions perished, being slain by the hands of these bloody tyrants, and through the brutality of the great Beast, who though it continued for many days to reign over the children of men, yet in due time he received in one of his heads a deadly wound by the hand of a powerful soldier of Light, which although it did not entirely kill him, yet it hurt his power so much that he was unable to make such havoc among men as formerly. Now it is accorded by many, that a Martin Luther inflicted this wound upon the beast, which stayed the shedding of rivers of blood by him and his coadjutors; but the deadly wound of the beast was so healed that he did not die, and the world wandered after the beast, and those whose names were not written in King Alpha's book, worshipped the beast and received his mark or the number of his name on their forehead or in their hands; and where the beast had dominion none were permitted to buy or sell unless they had received his mark. 
                  But the true soldiers of Light preferred to die, rather than do so, knowing that to do so would be signing themselves over to Abadon, whose service they esteemed worse than death, for this cause many refused to live, when it could only be done by yielding obedience to Abadon, the Pope, and the Beast; therefore they yielded their lives freely, rather than have it at the sacrifice of right and their king's favor. Now the beast having dominion over a great part of the earth, for a time, and a half-time, this state of things did no longer exist; but the reformation, began by wounding the beast, continued to increase until it came to pass that there was little or no blood shed by the Beast, or Pope, to sustain their false cause; then did the army of Light, from temporal foes, have peace for a time, but spiritually their warfare was just as great. And the Gentile grand division of the army of Light, made many inroads upon the army of Darkness, and took many captives.-Now in these times of comparative peace, there were various names assumed by the different regiments composing the Gentile divisions, namely: the Lutheran, the Quaker, the Presbyterian, the Baptist, the Episcopalian, the Congregational, the Greek, and many others too tedious to mention, and more latterly the Methodist, and the Union regiments. 
                  Now these regiments fought the enemy in their own peculiar way, having the same object in view, meaning the overthrow of the Kingdom of Darkness, as maintained by the Pope and the Beast; and those regiments have their own officers, who are particular that their soldiers observe all their rules and regulations, and go through all of their exercises regularly with the view of becoming perfect in drill and in all the arts of war. Now as before said although these different regiments have their own chosen names, and go through their own particular exercises, yet they all profess to belong to the grand army of Light, as helping to compose it, and subject to the command of the same general in chief, and the other superior officers, and they all combined to attack the army of Darkness, as supported by Abadon, the Beast, and the Pope. Now it is generally believed that in former times, the Episcopal regiment, being one of the oldest veteran regiments, done more to overthrow the Pope, than any of the other regiments, as it was in active service under brave and competent officers, who led them into many powerful engagements, long before many of the junior regiments came into existence or was called into service; and in these engagements they lost many very valiant officers and soldiers, who died on the field of battle confronting the enemy, and were buried in the honors of war. 
                  Among those worthy of honorable mention, were a Latimer, and a Ridley, who were officers high in command, and many others both officers and privates, of whom I may hereafter make mention of a few who were most conspicuous, as to note them all would require more time and space than our circumstances will at present admit, and besides there are other records extant in which they are fully described, namely: Fox's Book of Martyrs, to which I would refer the reader. But to return, the Episcopalian regiment gave to the army of Light, many great and mighty warriors, in former times who did in their day, many noble and brave deeds, and at length freely gave up their life for the cause in which they enlisted, and received at the hands of their king the Crown of Martyrdom, and were admitted to a seat near his person in the celestial land. Now this regiment, it is believed for some considerable time after its organization, was very precise to observe all their king's commandments and precepts, and they found much favor with earthly kings, who themselves became members thereof, and finally at length they came to use carnal weapons, as the Pope and the Beast had previously done. This not being agreeable to the will of the King of Light, he therefore showed his disapproval of this part of their actions by withdrawing his presence, and that of the Comforter from being so frequently among them; and therefore because of his absence, the enemy took the advantage of them, and sent among them Mr. Anger, Mr. Malice, and Mr Revenge, and their accomplices, who pretending that they were friends, were entertained by them to their own hurt, for they so alienated their minds from their king and his true principles, that they soon got to shedding the blood of their fellow men who were subject to Abadon, the Beast, and the Pope, with as little remorse as formerly. 
                  The blood of the soldiers of Light had been shed by them which was contrary to a written command of the King of Light, and was therefore the more pleasing to Abadon, and accomplished the grand design for which he had despatched his servants Anger, Malice, Revenge, and others of their clan among them. Now the whole united and true army of the King of Light, after the organization of the false army, under the command of the Pope and the Beast, assumed the name of Protestant to distinguish it from that of the Pope, as being in opposition thereunto, and comprising all the regiments aforesaid, which were in the different districts and divisions of the army of Light. The Pope's army was also called Roman Catholic, meaning thereby that it was the true army of Light. Nothing of course being more false, as its antecedents of cruel torturing of men and its much blood-shed, had abundantly shown to any well discerning mind. 
                  Now the different regiments of the army of light, though their main body was often concentrated in some one particular district, yet they each had detachments in the different divisions and districts; and as we have before said, the different districts or nations in modern times, are called by different names from what they were called anciently; and as we have now progressed in our history to modern times, we think it expedient here to give the present names of the present districts, and in doing so we will notice in the first place, that there are four grand divisions of all the terrestrial land, viz: Asia, Africa, Europe and America, to which four there is more lately added as a fifth, Oceanica, which comprises all the islands of the sea. The Asia division, which is considered the largest and most numerously inhabited, contains the following districts, viz: Asiatic Russia, Turkey, Arabia, Persia, Tartary, India, China, Japan, Siberia, Georgia and Syria. Palestine, is called the Holy Land, being the land where King Alpha made his first appearance among men, and where he resided during his bodily stay in the terrestrial country; and where he organized the first grand division of the army, which was called the Jewish division, as it was then inhabited by the Jews, who were the descendants of Abraham, who was called the friend of Alpha, being a very faithful subject unto him; and was also a mighty warrior in the defence of his cause, as was also many of his descendants prior to the bodily appearance of King Alpha among men on earth, who are worthy of honorable mention; but as their deeds and names have elsewhere been recorded in the King's memorandum book, as the reader by searching may find, it is therefore not needful that I should mention them here. But to proceed in this direction, there is Affghanistan, Belochistan, Hindoostan. Now in most of the above districts Alpha's forces are few in number, consisting chiefly in a few ambassadors and skirmishers; the first to propound conditions of peace, being sent by the king of light for that express purpose; the second to ascertain the position and condition of the king of darkness' forces, whom it is known in the above districts are very numerous, and adhere very strongly to the king of darkness who has greatly deceived them, and therefore in various ways receives from them that homage that is only due to the King of Light. Abadon having through the instrumentality of his prime officers, led them into such gross darkness that they cannot discern the difference between right and wrong, and light and darkness; therefore are they subject to the king of darkness rather than the King of Light. But at this present time the ambassadors of king Alpha are making great progress in those dark and benighted lands, in bringing many from darkness unto light, and from under the bondage of Abadon and his dark powers, to the glorious liberty of the children of light. And the skirmishers are gaining a more complete knowledge of the position of Abadon's forces in this grand division of the earth, and of his different regiments organized there, comprising the Brahma in the Hindoostan district, the Buddha in the Birman, the grand Lama in the Thibet and Tartary districts, and the Foh in China, and the Mahommed in Arabia. These regiments compose the grand divisions of the king of darkness' army in Asia. Now the latter one of these regiments was organized about six hundred years after the appearance of Alpha on earth, by one Mahomet, after whose name it is called, who was a great imposter, professing to be a true soldier of light, and of having received his commission from King Alpha himself, which was untrue; but being believed by the most part of men who lived in that district, he soon got many volunteers, and organized a large regiment, who under his direction greatly opposed the true army of Light in its mission of bringing men out of the Kingdom of Darkness into that of light. This object was greatly retarded in the above district by this branch of Abadon's service, which was well drilled by their colonel in the art of deceptive warfare, for by this art did they carry on the warfare, and was exceedingly successful, and prevailed to an alarming extent, and are still in operation; but there are being made inroads upon this dark territory by the King of Light's skirmishers, and also his ambassadors are succeeding in causing a reconciliation of many of those who have been in rebellion against him through the light and instruction given to them by these ambassadors; there are many who have and are still returning to their rightful sovereign, and taking the oath of allegiance to him, and enlist in the Army of Light, helping to fill up regiments now being organized in defence of the Kingdom of Light. 
                  And now having given an outline of the history of the Arabian district, as it is impossible in our limited time and space to give more of the same, we will be under the necessity of observing in our further illustration the succeeding districts of Asia. To proceed with the Brahma regiment of Darkness, which occupy the Hindoostan district. Its origin is not so well known as the Mahommedan, but it is believed to be of ancient date, and is well known to be very numerous, and to occupy a very large space. Its chief operations consist in worshipping an image called Brahma, who through the dark powers of Abadon, was substituted for the true worship of Alpha, and by submitting to this false worship, they are thereby exposed to many cruelties, thinking thereby to better their condition on the other side of Jordan, to which all must sooner or later pass; and as they are persuaded by Abadon's orator Untruth, that by inflicting punishment and death upon themselves, they will thereby obtain pardon for past offences, and better their condition beyond Jordan. But iu this they are deceived by the powers of darkness, for there is no other name but that of King Alpha that can recommend them to happiness beyond the river. This the ambassadors of peace fail not to tell them, being sent for that purpose by the King, accompanied by his orator, Mr. Truth, together with the skirmishers who are detached from different well-drilled regiments, who have long been and still are in active service, having like labor and effect as in the Arabia district. Passing on we proceed to notice briefly the Buddha regiment, which is a very large and full one, and occupies the districts of Burmah and Siam, and serve the King of Darkness by worshipping various monstrous idols, and building large and spacious temples unto them, in which these idols are contained, instead of worshipping their rightful sovereign, which is well pleasing to Abadon, who had thus deceived and led them astray. But King Alpha had compassion on them, knowing that they have and had been deceived by Abadon and that what they had done was through ignorance; therefore did he send his ambassadors to negotiate with them, and his skirmishers were also sent to discover their position. These officers have been and are still successful, accomplishing much in reconciling many to their king, and organizing regiments in his favor, as had been done by those who had preceded them in other districts. Also the districts of Thibet and Tartary, which the grand Lama regiment occupies, acting much after the same manner of the other regiments of Darkness, and extending all over a large space of territory, unto whom like officers from the different regiments of Light have been detailed and despatched, and who were alike successful in establishing branches of the army of Light, to engage the enemy, and gain conquest; and last but not least, is the Fo regiment in the China district, which is the most numerous of all others in the terrestrial land, and it is supposed to be the oldest now in existence, and they think themselves far superior to all others, and that their emperor is the Son of the celestial land, yet they have no perfect knowledge of the King of Light who dwells in the celestial land, and they have therefore been very long in gross darkness; for it is supposed by some that their kingdom was founded by Noah, a very great soldier in the army of Light, of former times, who has been elsewhere spoken of, but be that as it may, if they once had the knowledge of the true Light, they have long since lost it, and fell into gross darkness. But ambassadors of Light are now making great progress in forming and establishing regiments on the outward borders of their districts, as they do not permit any but their own natives to penetrate as yet into their interior; but it is believed that the time will come when the army of Light will penetrate into the very heart of their districts, and form powerful and effective regiments there. 
                  Now in all the aforesaid places in Asia, those regiments of Darkness have 
                        detatchments
                        detachments
                     , and the army of Light it is expected will soon have corresponding regiments in active service against all the powers of darkness. Now having passed through a brief description of the positions of the opposing forces in Asia, I must now proceed to do the same to Africa, which is the adjoining grand division to Asia; for Africa is supposed to be the next most ancient division to Asia, and supposed also to have been first settled by the descendants of Ham, the second son of Noah; as Asia was also settled by the descendants of Shem, the first son of Noah. Now it is recorded in the king's own book, that the first mighty one spoken of on the earth, whose name was Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the king, was the grand-son of Ham, whose descendants it is generally rally admitted, and it cannot be successfully contradicted, did first people Africa, which was formerly called Ethiopia; it is also recorded in the king's book of this same Nimrod, beginning his kingdom Babel &c., which was the first one ever spoken of in the king's or any other reliable record; and also himself an inhabitant, built a number of great cities, the first ever recorded to have been builded by any other people, showing conclusively that however far they may at present be behind civilized and enlightened nations, they were nevertheless, once the first most powerful and enlightened people on earth; for it would seem from the most authentic and reliable history, they were far in advance of all others in the arts and science, and in all manner of deep learning and wealth. For Egypt which was a part of this district or rather division, was once the most celebrated of all others for refinements and deep learning; for it was there that men went from every quarter of the globe to be taught, and become complete in learning, and they are of the same race as those now called Africans. 
                  And Carthage, a great city of Africa, is admitted to have been once a city of greatest renown for its wealth and learning, and was once a rival of Rome, that was said to have once been the mistress of the world; these things we merely mention to show the state of advancement the inhabitants of this grand division were once in, though they are so far from it now; and those who are most enlightened now, was once as far back in gross darkness and ignorance, as the natives of Africa now are, and it is the rebelling against the King of Light, and his righteous government, which has brought them into the deplorable condition they are now in; and those who now are in advance as they once were, may by doing as they did, fall into the same dilemma as they now are. 
                  But to return, to more particularly delineate the present condition of Africa, which is a very hot climate, and but few who are not natives thereof, have been able to penetrate far into the interior, and therefore it is at present but little known to any but those residing therein; but the generality of inhabitants as far as known, are of a black or dark complexion, and have short and curly hair, all of which it is reasonable to suppose is caused by the exceeding heat of the climate, in which they have for many succeeding ages dwelt. And it is singular, but nevertheless true, that merely on the account of the color of their skin, they are at this period hated and despised by many who differ from them in complexion; though nothing else under the sun, either animate or inanimate, whether it be animals, birds, vegetables, or fruits, are despised for the same cause, and what is still more strange, there are many who profess to be soldiers in the army of Light, yet make a very marked difference in the treatment of their fellow-soldiers for the same cause, when at the same time they must know that their king, whom they profess to love and serve, is no respecter of persons; but instead he has left it on record that in all nations them that fear him, and work righteousness, are acceptable in his sight, which will include his dark soldiers, as well as others, which makes it the more strange, that soldiers in the same army, fighting for the same cause and knowing this, should so far deviate from the principles they profess to be governed by, as to do this thing; but as I propose to more minutely notice this great evil in my further progress, I will forbear to dilate on it, and proceed to define the different districts of the grand division aforesaid, namely: Barbary, which includes Morocco, Tunis, Tripoli, Algiers, each having their different regiments of darkness, to whom the ambassadors of Light have been sent and have been more or less successful. 
                  There is also the district of Egypt which is a very celebrated country, but much more so for its past than its present history, for it is a very ancient district, and as before said, flourished many ages ago; and it believed the world is indebted to it for many branches of learning, and the arts and science, which there did a bound to such perfection, that it is thought that none of the civilized nations of this age have arrived at. But it is to be lamented that in all their learning, they did not adhere to King Alpha, but instead were subject to Abadon and his dark powers, and therefore they fell from the high position they once occupied; for they were so highly exalted in their wisdom, power, and wealth, that they did not impute the possession of the bountiful kindness to King Alpha, but rather to their own power and might. And they at one time had in their own land under bondage to them, the main body of the army of Light, who descended in a straight line from his ancient servants Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who were all mighty men of war, and done great exploits in their days. And the latter one, at one time had such power that he laid hold of King Alpha and 
                        restled
                        wrestled
                      with him all night and would not let him go until he blessed him. 
                  Now at that time the king did not intend for his army to remain in bondage in Egypt, and as he had promised, and they had asked to be delivered therefrom, and they crying unto him, and he hearing their cry, therefore he spake to his servant Moses, he (being a mighty man of valor, and being brought up in all the wisdom and learning of Egypt,) and told him to go and speak to the King of Egypt, and tell him to let his people go; but he refused in his haughtiness, and said who is King Alpha that he should hearken unto him to let his army go, that he knew him not, neither would he let them go. This so displeased King Alpha, that he commanded his servant Moses to go to war with 
                        Pharoah
                        Pharaoh
                      and his people which he did in a severe manner, punishing him and his people terribly; and the last time King Alpha despatched a celestial warrior, who slew the first born in every family in Egypt. And then was 
                        Pharoah
                        Pharaoh
                      glad to let the King of Light's army go; but as a full account of the whole proceedings is in the king's record, it is not expedient that I should dwell longer thereon, but it is very evident that rebellion against the King of Light is what has brought them from what they once were, to what they now are. Carthage, the next district of Africa, was also once, many ages ago, celebrated for its great wealth and power, and carried on great and extensive wars with the other great powers of the earth, showing conclusively that they were once a great and mighty people, yet by their not adhering to the King of Light, they have fell into the deplorable condition they are now in and have been for many ages; and their capital city was destroyed by their enemies, and has never since been rebuilt; but the king's ambassadors and skirmishers are being sent by him to both of these districts, and are making inroads on the powers of Abadon, and taking many captives and reconciling many to our king. 
                  Barbary contains the regiments of the Moors, the Berbers, and the Arabs; Nubia and Abyssinia are each districts in this division, and the remains of splendid temples in their land, show that their predecessors were civilized and enlightened, though this seems not to be the case with the present inhabitants, who are in gross darkness, but efforts are being made by the servants of Light to enlighten them also. There is also the Senigambia and Guinea districts, the inhabitants of which are mostly members of the Pagan regiments, doing service to Abadon in that branch of his army; being so deceived by him as to worship serpents, lizards, and other disgusting things, rather than their rightful sovereign; this being done through ignorance, makes their cause more favorable than many, who having great light do not walk according thereto, and consequently are worse than those idol worshippers, whom there are efforts being made to reclaim, and these efforts are more or less successful. 
                  Now in these more modern times there has been formed the Sierra Leone and the Liberia districts; the former founded by the English and the latter by the American district, who sent each some who had been natives of the districts, to organize those districts in Africa; and as those who were sent were members of some of the regiments of light, therefore they introduced into those benighted lands the true light of Zion, and the prospects are fair for powerful army divisions, to be hereafter organized so as to inflict a powerful blow on the territories of darkness there. And there is also the Ashantee and the Dahomey districts, where resides a very dark and benighted people who have little or no knowledge of King Alpha at this time, and therefore serve him not; these too are by his special messengers invited to return to him, and receive his favor and be completely happy on this and the other side of the river. There is also the Sahara, or Great Desert, Mosambique, Languebar, Zanibar, Soudan and Cape Colony, settled by Europeans, and therefore have some knowledge of King Alpha; also the Hottentots, Bechuanas, and Caffraria districts. Belonging to this same African district, are the following islands inhabited by a portion of this same race, namely:-St. Helena, Madagascar, Bourbon, Mauritius and Socotra; these islands together with the last named districts, are some of them partly enlightened, but most of them are in great darkness and ignorance, and have little or no knowledge of the King of Light, which results from their former rejection of having him reign over them, for as we have before said, they once were in wisdom and knowledge, far in the advance of all others, and were so, long before the coming of Alpha bodily into the terrestrial country; and it is recorded that after his departure, that there were ambassadors of light sent by the king to negotiate with them, and that they were eminently successful in causing a reconciliation between the king and his rebellious subjects, many of whom joined his army and fought in the defence of his cause, against the alien army. Some of these soldiers became mighty in battle, and because of their valor and skill, together with their loyalty, they were appointed to high positions in the Army of Light, which they filled with credit to themselves and their race; among those who did so was one Cyprian, who was appointed to the command of a division which he valiantly led on to victory on many a battle field, and having filled out his mission, he was called home from the field and honorably discharged, and received the approval of his king together with his bounty; and it is said that some of his war orders are yet in existence. We merely notice this to show that though they of the African division have not now the true light of the gospel, yet they were once in it in the advance of many others, but by their not walking in the light while they had it, they stumbled and fell into the great darkness and ignorance in which they now are. This should be a warning to other divisions, lest they too should, through not adhering steadfastly to the command of King Alpha, fall into the same or a worse position, which is possible for any who do not keep the commandments of the King of Light, no matter what their present position may be; for the rejecting of the commands of the King of Light, brings all the aforesaid evils upon those who do so. For those who will not submit to the government of the King of Light naturally fall into gross darkness, ignorance and error, as all history abundantly proves; this as we have before said was the case with the inhabitants of the African grand division, and because they were thus ignorant and defenceless they were much intruded upon by the districts of the terrestrial country who were more enlightened. And for more than three hundred years they have been stolen away from their native land, and carried into different nations, there to be made slaves, and have suffered a more cruel and unjust bondage, than the world ever saw before. The heart sickens at a recitation of all the cruelties and wrongs they have suffered, in vindication of which those who have thus wronged them bring for a pretext the color of their skin. Now that this should be considered a reason why the stronger should oppress the weaker, seems to have not entered the mind of men prior to three or four centuries ago. But even making captives of them thus from their native land, King Alpha, who is not unmindful of any of his creatures, has made it to work together for their own good, which was not the intention of those who captured them, neither was it the design of the king of darkness who moved them thereto, for many of this despised and proscribed race in the land of their captivity, have left the vile service of Abadon, and enlisted in the great and glorious cause of Alpha, and become true and valiant hearted soldiers in the different regiments that compose the Army of Light; many of them have long since fought their way through, and having gained the victory in favor of their king, have crossed the river and gone home to the Celestial country; there to behold his face with joy, and dwell forever in his presence and be completely happy. And there are many of their descendants now in the field determined never to yield nor give the struggle over, until they too, like their fathers have gained the better land, among whom is your humble servant the author, for he too is one of this proscribed race. But as it will be our duty in its proper time and place, to dwell more fully on the past and present situation of those people, the outlines of whose history we have briefly given above, we therefore conclude our present remarks thereon and proceed to give a sketch of the Oceanica grand division of the terrestrial land, which consists entirely of islands, and comprises the following three great divisions: Malaysia, Australasia and Polynesia. In Malaysia are the following districts: Borneo, Sumatra, Java, Celebes, Philippine and Molucca. In these districts Abadon has the chief dominion, and has long held the most part of the inhabitants in gross darkness and ignorance; therefore many of them faithfully serve him in their different regiments, and commit various depredations on their fellowmen on the seas, thereby pleasing Abadon well, but displeasing Alpha. Therefore does he send his soldiers detached from the different regiments, to subdue them and bring them into subjection to their king, either by treaty or conquest. And it is believed they will finally succeed in bringing them all into submission to his righteous law. Australasia comprises the following districts: Australia, which is the largest island known in the terrestrial land, also New Guinea, New Zealand, Van Dieman's land and several smaller districts. The inhabitants of Australia district are chiefly of the African race, and are mostly in gross darkness, having been deceived by the Prince of Darkness like many others who have had much better opportunities than they, for they for many ages have been without the knowledge of the laws of the King of Light, not having been visited by Mr. Truth nor the King's Trumpeters, to give them proper information in regard to his laws; and of such as them it has been said by one of the King's messengers of old, that where there is no law there is no transgression, making their offence less than those who know the law and yet transgress it. The above regiment is called the Papuans. It is now being visited by skirmishers and ambassadors from the various regiments of light, who will make known to them the laws of the King of Light. Now in their land there is said to be much gold, to obtain which there are many more who go than to teach the laws of King Alpha; and it is to be 
                        regrettted
                        regretted
                      that there are many who go there who are the King's enemies, and instead of teaching them to obey the law, their teaching both by precept and example are quite the reverse. 
                  But the New Zealand district has become connected with one of the more enlightened districts, which contains many regiments belonging to the Army of Light, who send detachments there to subdue and bring them into the Army of Light. The soldiers of these detachments have been very successful in getting recruits and organizing regiments in that district. New Guinea and Van Dieman's land districts are much in the same condition as the other portions of Australia described above. Polynesia includes a number of small districts, scattered over a great extent of the Pacific ocean, of which Sandwich districts are the most important, having their own distinct independent districts, and their present and prospective situation much resembles that of the districts above described; therefore it will not be expedient for me to illustrate them; and having now briefly given the outlines of the progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness, and the past and present situation of their opposing armies in the aforesaid grand divisions of Asia, Africa and Oceanica, we must now proceed to notice the European and the American grand divisions. 
                  Europe, which is the smallest of the grand divisions of the earth, contains fifty-six different districts, some of which are very small, while others are very extensive. The most important of these are Great Britain, France, Russia, Austria and Prussia, which are the largest districts of Europe, and are called the five great powers, for in them is contained more of light, civilization, wealth and the arts and science than does at present exist in the other districts; and as the condition of the contending armies of Light and Darkness are generally alike in all the districts of this division, we propose in the first place to merely give the names of the districts, and then notice briefly the past and present condition of the whole division, together with the position of the opposing armies of Light and Darkness, and the progress of each of their kingdoms. 
                  The names of the districts are as follows: Sweden, Norway, Lapland, Poland, Denmark, Holland, and Belgium. Great Britain contains the following districts, viz.: England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales. Next in order comes Spain and Portugal. Germany contains Bavaria and 31 other districts, which altogether comprise the Germanic confederation. Austria is next to Russia, the largest and most thickly inhabited. Switzerland and Hungary are smaller districts. Italy is one of the most pleasant divisions of Europe, and has been blessed by Alpha with a very pleasant climate. It comprises Sardinia, Tuscany, Parma and Modena, which latter districts are under the government of the Pope. Naples and Venetia are also in this district, together with Rome of ancient date. The Greece district, the inhabitants of which are called Greeks, was once a very wise and enlightened people, who had received their first instruction from Egypt, but like that ancient nation, they too have fallen from their lofty position to a level with less enlightened nations. Turkey, or the Ottoman district, extends into a part of Asia as well as Europe, and the inhabitants are mostly members of the Mohammedan regiment of darkness, which is widely at variance with the true army of light. The Ionian district, which is the last of the European districts, comprises several smaller islands, which are under the protection of Great Britain, and therefore similar to them in position as regards the armies of Light and Darkness. And now having given the names of the different districts comprising the European grand division of the terrestrial country and made a few brief passing remarks thereon, we return to take a more minute review of the past and present situation of some of the most conspicuous districts thereof. 
                  This division is not supposed to have been settled as early as either Asia or Africa, as these two divisions had powerful empires and populous cities, while the inhabitants of Europe were yet in a state of barbarism as bad or worse than now exists in either Asia or Africa; for the Greeks, who are the earliest European people that history gives any account of, were at first so low and degraded, that they lived on roots, herbs and acorns, and sheltered themselves in caves and hollow trees, showing that they were almost on a level with the brute creation until about 3300 years ago, when a number of Egyptians from what is now called Africa visited that country and settled amongst them, and taught them the arts and sciences that then flourished in Africa; so that in a short time they wrought such important changes among this rude and barbarous people, that they began to build and live in towns, and form regular governments; and at length became a renowned and important people, so that it is very evident from these facts, the Europeans owed their first instruction struction in the arts of civilization to the African race, who were, as we have before said, the descendants of Ham, as it is an incontrovertible fact the Egyptians are, who, though now this same race are so far behind the Europeans of the present day in learning and civilization, yet their forefathers were their instructors, who were in a worse state of barbarism than the inhabitants of Africa in their uncivilized state at this present day; yet there are some of the descendants of these same Europeans who, professing to be enlightened and well informed, are nevertheless so ignorant or unjust as to boast of the superiority of their own and the inferiority of the African race. But to return. Greece, after receiving their first instruction from those Africans, cultivated learning and the arts and sciences, and acquired great skill in architecture, statuary, painting and other arts, and founded beautiful cities. But yet in all this they still seemed to be ignorant of the knowledge of the King of Light, and worshipped idols instead of Him. Therefore it is not strange that their kingdom did not stand, and that they were conquered by the Romans, who afterwards became the most powerful of all the nations on earth. The conquest of Greece by the Romans occurred previous to the coming of King Alpha bodily on earth, and about the time of his coming, they exercised dominion over nearly all nations in the known world, including the Jews, who had been once the favorite regiment of the King of Light; but because they had in a large degree rebelled against him, and yielded themselves subject to Abadon to obey him, therefore did King Alpha forsake them, and suffered them to fall into the hands of the Romans, under whose dominion they were at the time of his coming; as they did not receive him when he came, therefore after he had been with them long enough to teach them his will concerning them, and they still not obeying, he left them remaining in the hands of the Romans, who held them in servility for a long time, of which we may say more in its proper place; but to continue our remarks on the Romans: this renowned people, after holding dominion over so many nations for a long time, they too, in their turn, as they did not yield obedience to the King of Light, were also overthrown, for though they had received so liberally of his bounty, and were indebted to him for all the good things they possessed, yet they, being deceived by Abadon, cleaved more unto him than to the King of Light, who had raised them up from a state of degradation, to a very high and honorable position, but they refused to give that honor to the King of Light that was due to him, and imputed the power they possessed to their own wisdom, valor, and might, instead of ascribing it to King Alpha; thus did they, renouncing him, become more the subjects of Abadon, who finally at last established the headquarters of his Grand Army in their district. 
                  And there, also, was the seat of the Beast and Pope, who commanded Abadon's false army, established, and from thence gave orders for the persecution of the soldiers of light, the blood of many of whom was shed by virtue of these orders, as had been their King previously by Roman soldiers, who did so at the request of the Jews, but they afterwards did so of their own accord and free will, until the establishing of the seat of the Beast and the power of the Pope, amongst them; who took the work of destruction out of their hands, and carried it on until they too lost their power of so doing. 
                  Now, the Romans had formerly made war against the Army of Light by the Pagan regiment; but there were many of them who were taken captive by the soldiers of light, and brought into the army, and became very valiant soldiers for King Alpha, and fought until death, in his glorious cause. But the Roman nation generally, whom we have described as being a very wise, powerful, and enlightened people, so far as human wisdom and power is concerned, they, not adhering to King Alpha, and making war against his people, he therefore sent the Goths and Vandals and other barbarous regiments amongst them, who conquered and subdued them, and destroyed nearly every trace of learning and refinement of which they once could boast, and for several hundred years after their downfall, the people of Europe were very rude and ignorant, but in time, they became improved and civilized, and they, and their descendants, are now considered the most enlightened and powerful people on the earth. 
                  And at this time all of the districts of Europe, which we have above mentioned, with the exception of the Turk's districts, which have many powerful regiments of light, of various names, who are in active service, and many valiant soldiers have these regiments given to the Army of Light, who have done many valiant deeds for their King, and the furtherance of his great and glorious cause in the terrestrial country, for in the aforesaid districts there were, both before and after the fall of Rome, organized by King Alpha's officers, many able and effective regiments who have sent strong detachments, both of officers and men, as skirmishers into the various districts of Africa, Asia and Oceanica, who have been and still are recruiting officers, enlisting many volunteers in the service of the King of Light, for in Europe, there is now and long has been, a strong and regular army of veterans, comprising the Protestant Corps, in which are contained the following effective regiments which we have above named, viz: Episcopal, Presbyterian, Quakers, Baptist, Puritan, Lutheran, Trinitarian, Kirk of Scotland, Greek, Methodist, and many others too numerous to mention. 
                  These regiments though separate in their various organizations, yet are they combined in their defence of the Kingdom of Light, and in their attacks on the Beast and the King of Darkness, and this protestant corps has been in some powerful engagements with the Beast and Pope's corps, who once had chief dominion over Europe and other parts. But the protestant corps, by boldly attacking them in battle time after time, and gaining over them so many conquests, that their power at this time is weak to what it formerly was, and in Europe now, the protestant has the ascendancy. Now the English district seems to have been very prominent in these wars, and to have contributed her full share of men and means for the battle, and many great names she has given to the Army of Light, who have taken a prominent part in these wars, whose names we must for want of time and space omit, but they are recorded on the roll of honor, and will be read in due time in the presence of an assembled world, and their worthy deeds suitably applauded. 
                  Now, to the Lutheran regiment it is admitted the honor is due, for having been the first to come out openly and boldly to attack the Pope and the beast in their stronghold, being led unto battle by its colonel who organized it one Martin Luther, after whose name it is yet called, who wrote the war order which brought on the battle, which ended in the defeat of the Pope and beast's army, and a signal and decisive victory in favor of the true Army of Light, as being fought by the combined regiments comprising it, and being commanded by the Comforter. Although the Lutheran regiment led the attack, they were ably supported by the Episcopal Legion, and reinforced by the different regiments that were then in existence, for there has been since then, some powerful regiments organized, who of course were not in the first battles, but since their organization they have done much in the service of their king, and fought some severe battles, and gained extensive victories of which we propose to say more hereafter. The Quaker regiment also took an active part in the first battle, fought against the Pope and the beast, as did also other regiments. 
                  Now the Episcopal regiment, after these wars, and peace for a time prevailing, became very popular amongst men, and it was thought to be an honor to be a member thereof, insomuch so, that kings and nobles in the English district, attached themselves thereto, and finally, earthly kings became what was called the defenders thereof, which did not seem to add to its efficiency in its wars against the principalities and powers of Darkness, for through the instrumentality of these earthly kings, they began to use carnal weapons, instead of spiritual and mighty weapons, which latter ones are the only weapons that can be effective, to the pulling down of the strongholds of Abadon's powers, and because the mighty weapons are used less, and the carnal ones more; therefore the Episcopal regiment is not as effective in these later days as in former times, having lost some of its first principles, yet there has undoubtedly always been many in it and still remain to be who are true and valiant soldiers, and make use of spiritual weapons, instead of carnal ones. 
                  Now what we have here said concerning the Episcopal regiment, has been more or less so with the other regiments, though less than with it; the shedding of blood was not at first admitted in the protestant army corps, but was brought in to defend it. The same was afterward introduced into the Episcopal and other regiments of Light greatly to their injury. Nevertheless the various regiments of the districts of Europe increasing greatly in number, they sent many ambassadors into other divisions, who were very successful in reconciling many to King Alpha. Also, from them Messrs. Faith and Hope leads many to the river's edge, but Mrs. Charity leads them across into the celestial country, they having fought their way through, and gained that happy land, together with an honorable discharge and their king's approval. 
                  Now before leaving the English district, we pause to notice briefly the Methodist Legion, which was more recently organized than the legion we have before spoken of, for it was only organized near the middle of the last century. Its founder and officer in command was one John Wesley, who was a very true and valiant soldier, and who first belonged to the Episcopal regiment, but finding ing upon a close 
                        examinatiom
                        examination
                      that there was a deficiency in it, and a deviation from the first principles as taught by King Alpha himself, whilst sojourning in the terrestrial country and as practiced by his immediate followers, and their successors in primitive times, and as not according strictly with the provisions recorded in his statute book, therefore he resolved, in consultation with a few others, to form a model company to correspond as near as possible with the primitive company, and in strict accordance with the precepts of the king's statute book, and in order that they might not err, they called into their councils Mr. Truth, Mr. Faith, and Mr. Conscience, who directed them to petition King Alpha to send them the Comforter, who would teach them all things necessary to make them good soldiers, and would guide them out of the way of all error into all truth, and would instruct them in all the arts of war, being himself a very great warrior, for it was he that (after the king had taken his departure from the terrestrial land, and his chosen company was set in a secret session holding a council of war, and sending up petitions to King Alpha, to enable them to meet the foe,) was despatched from the courts on high, as the king had promised previous to his departure that He would send him, and when he had come, his presence imparted such courage and vigor to them, that they were both ready and willing to attack the enemy at any time, and they were not slack in doing so, though they had previously been afraid, yet being inspired by the Comforter they went forth from that place immediately to war, and it is recorded that they the same day took three thousand captives, all of whom enlisted in the Army of Light; many of them afterwards became very valiant soldiers. 
                  Now this same mighty Comforter, who had enabled them to accomplish these great and mighty results, to the continuance of which the present powerful position the grand Army of Light now occupies in the terrestrial country is due; this same mighty Comforter is he whom Mr. Truth and Faith recommended the founders of the Methodist legion to petition King Alpha to send to them, to direct and instruct them, and they therefore readily took the counsel thus given to them by these great advisers, who instructed them in the proper way to send a petition to the king, which was, as has already been said, by sending up by the hands of Messrs. Faith, Repentance and Contrition, accompanied by Mr. Weteyes. These honorable gentlemen did they engage to go for them, and to plead in their behalf, to the great and almighty Father of King Alpha, that he, for King Alpha's sake, and for the sake of the blood he had shed, that he would graciously grant to them pardon for all their past offences, and forgive them the debt they owed, seeing that his Son Messiah had paid through the love of himself and Messiah, their great debt. So when these great messengers had gone forth, and stood in the presence of King Alpha, bowing before him, they plead that he would graciously intercede with his almighty Father, that he might pardon them and grant their request, and send them the Comforter, and with him a receipt in full for all their former indebtedness; that they might look thereon and read to their comfort, and see, feel, and know, that they had received this great favor at his hands, which would encourage them to hope for the continuance thereof; and finally on condition of future obedience, that they would be received by him into his presence with joy, when their warfare shall have come to a close. 
                  Now these messengers, arriving at the King's court, were by Him received with joy. Moreover, his Almighty Father, when their mission was introduced to him by himself, accompanied by his own especial request that he in his great kindness would grant their humble petition, his request also being backed up by Princess Mercy, then did the Father receive it at his hands, declaring that it surely should be granted. Moreover, he caused the news to be spread abroad throughout all the celestial country, so that the many millions of shining ones that stand in his majestic jestic presence might know it, and knowing it, rejoice thereat; for there is more rejoicing in the celestial country over one transgressor who returns to him and makes such a petition as these had made, and sends it by the same messenger, than over ninety-nine just persons who need no repentance. And so the King prepared a message of reconciliation, and sent it to them by the hands of the Comforter, who accompanied those who were sent back again to the petitioners, who, when they saw and knew that their request was granted, received the glad tidings with joy unspeakable and full of glory, insomuch that they leaped for joy, and in their great exultation they cried aloud, Glory Hallelujah to the King that reigns on high; whom they now felt to love from the great depths of their heart as they had never loved before, and they were now made fully sensible of his pardoning love by his granting their request and sending them a receipt in full of their freedom from debt and enthralment, and a certificate of their acceptance with him as a mark of his divine favor. Now this certificate is of very great service to those who receive it, as it gives them a right and title to their possessions on the other side of the river. It is therefore of very great importance to those who receive it to know that they have it in their possession; this the primitive soldiers of light were always careful to do; but it appears that at the time of the formation of the Methodist regiment, it was not generally admitted that it was possible for men to receive a certificate of pardon from the King, and to feel and know they have it by the witness of the Comforter; but the founders of the Methodist regiment ascertained by the testimony of the Comforter and Messrs. Truth and Faith, that it was both possible and highly necessary they should; and when they had received the glad tidings referred to above, and the certificate thereof, with joy they broke forth into singing this song: 
                         
                           My God is reconciled, 
                           His pardoning voice I hear; 
                            
                           He owns me for his child, 
                           I can no longer fear. 
                           The Spirit answers to the Blood, 
                           And tells me I am born of God, &c. 
                        
                      Their harps being put in tune, and they being in a merry mood, they could not but play thereon, and it is said they had music and dancing, and that the music was well timed, and there was great joy in that city, as the arrival of the Comforter amongst them could not fail to make them thus joyful, as by his coming and the very glad tidings he brought, they were thereby so well assured of their king's favor. But these joyful seasons were not to last long without intermission; as they were now to prepare for active service, which was the grand object of their organization, which already had met with the success of having the Comforter with them for their commander, and he, as was his office to do, went about preparing them for the great battles they were soon to fight, and as a preparation thereto, he directed them to petition the king through the instrumentality of Mr. Faith for the whole armor, that by putting it on, they thereby might be able to stand in the day of battle against all the combined powers of darkness, though it is true they took in many recruits, fought some severe battles, slew many and took many captives, being well drilled by their commander in chief previous to their taking and putting on the whole armor. But as they were informed both by the Comforter and Mr. Truth of the necessity of having it all on, in order that they might be able to stand in the evil day, having done all to stand against all the wiles of Abadon, they therefore did not rest contented until they had sought and found it to their joy, satisfaction and comfort. Now as a description of the whole armor has been previously given, and its use and the powerful effect it has in enabling them to conquer all the powers of darkness, I need not here enlarge thereon, but merely say that the Methodist regiment having obtained it, and knowing its power and use through the wise instruction they had received from the Comforter and Mr. Truth they immediately organized a battalion of heavy artillery, and also had some sharp-shooters and trumpeters, who were the watchmen, and carried the bow, arrows and quivers, together with the sword of the Spirit, manufactured in the celestial land, and therefore having a Jerusalem blade, the great quality and merits of which we have elsewhere spoken; and being thus equipped, they formed themselves into a line of battle, and went into active service; and as we have before said, they were modelled after the form of the primitive regiments, hence it is not strange that they, like them, were very successful in the glorious service of their King, for they were very attentive to observe all the war orders they received from him, and carry them out to the letter, and as they had many recruiting officers who were faithful to the performance of their trust, they were therefore noted for their fast increase and the fullness of their ranks of able-bodied men and women likewise, for in the service of the King of Light there are both male and female warriors, many of these soldiers became very valiant in battle, putting to flight the alien army and taking many captives and slaying many with the edge of the sword, whose noble and warlike deeds are recorded on high; being taken account of in the King's record, as is the deeds of every true soldier of each and every regiment composing the grand united army of light, and will be read to their honor and praise in the presence of the general assembly, which includes all who ever have been, all who now are, and all who shall yet be, both the inhabitants of the celestial and the terrestrial countries, who shall be called together by the great King of light, both those who have faithfully served him and they who have served him not, at which time he will call the general roll, and reward every one according to his or her works, whether they be good or bad. Of this great event the Trumpeters in the Methodist regiment spoke much, which had the tendency of greatly increasing their numbers and filling their ranks and bringing many from darkness unto light, they being faithfully warned by these watchmen of the awful consequences of being found on the wrong side on the great day referred to above. 
                  It is also worthy of notice, that the founders of this regiment did not admit of oppression, or prejudice, or ill will, on account of color or complexion, as it afterwards came to be the case; neither indeed could they do so while being under the immediate directions of the Comforter, and subject to his commands, which is in direct opposition to prejudice, &c., as is also the law of the King of Light. Now while the Methodist regiments were attentive to observe all the commands of the Comforter, and the laws of their king, they had his smiles upon them, and they grew and became very prosperous, increasing daily in numbers until they had so increased, that they were able to send forth, and have 
                        detatchments
                        detachments
                      in almost every district, in all the terrestrial country. But they too, like the regiments which had preceded them, in process of time, deviated from the laws of the king, and the commands of the Comforter, and were therefore less successful than formerly, in producing such valiant soldiers, and gaining such mighty victories; and were therefore a less efficient branch of the grand army of Light; for no regiment can be so successful, who omits any part of their duty, and do not observe all the orders of the King of Light, but yet, notwithstanding, there was a great deviation in this regiment from its former steadfastness, there was still nevertheless, a remnant always left who were attentive to observe all of the king's commands, and were therefore very successful in battle. But to return to the progress of the general Army of Light: we having noticed the four grand divisions, namely: Asia, Africa, and Europe, situated in what is termed the Eastern Continent, or the Old World, and Oceanica, which comprises the Islands of the Sea, and having given some brief statements of the operations of some of the most prominent regiments comprising the various divisions of the Army of Light, situated and occupying therein, we come lastly to notice the American grand division. America is situated in what is called the Western Continent, or the New World, which comprises North and South America. The inhabitants of this grand division, consist chiefly of colored, Indians and Whites; the colored are the descendants of Africans, who were cruelly stolen away from their own native land, and made slaves of by the whites, who are the descendants of Europeans, whom as we have before said, received their first instructions in the arts and science, from the predecessors of the same race, whom many of them now contend were, and are, of an interior race, and attempt to vindicate and justify the cruelty and injustice of the act of enslaving and holding them in bondage, from that supposition which speaks not well of that intelligence and light of which they now, but could not always boast. 
                  The Indians are the descendants of the aboriginal inhabitants of this division; their history is clothed in mystery, and cannot at present be traced far back, there being no authentic history of their antecedents, that goes farther back than the fourteenth century; at which time this continent was discovered by Columbus, who sailed from the eastern continent, by what is reasonable to suppose the guidance and direction of the great King of Light, for the purpose of making this discovery, which was crowned with abundant success. And great and momentous events have since occurred in this grand division; the outlines of which we now propose briefly to sketch. 
                
                
                  THE AMERICAN GRAND DIVISION. 
                  America is divided into what is termed North and South America, each of which is divided into smaller districts, some of which are called States, more particularly that portion of North America which is called the United States; the names of which states we propose hereafter to give. 
                   
                  But as South America was first discovered by Columbus, we will name the districts thereof first, which are as follows: New Granada, Venezuela, Ecuador, Guiana, Brazil, Peru, Bolivia, Chili, Argentine, Paraguay, Uraguay, and Patagonia; when these were first discovered, the inhabitants who were called Indians, were found to have no true knowledge of the King of Light, and were consequently in gross darkness, insomuch that he who stood highest in office, was substituted for the King of Light, and was called the Inca, to whom those barbarians paid that homage that is only due to the great King of Light, being led thereunto by Abadon, who had long held them in gross darkness; but as the way became open by the discovery of their regions by Columbus, he coming from a more enlightened land where the King of Light had many powerful armies, of which we have already written; and as these lately discovered, were in rebellion against his government, therefore did he send ambassadors of peace and detachments from the various regiments, in order that he might reconcile them to himself, or subdue them by force of arms. And I am happy to be able to record that these ambassadors and soldiers of the King of Light, have since been eminently successful in bringing many from the Kingdom of Darkness, unto that of Light, and from under the power of Abadon, to the much greater power of Alpha; and many regiments are now organized in that land, yet there are many who still adhere to Abadon, and are incited by him to do many wicked and unjust things, one of the most prominent of which, is the holding of their fellow-men in bondage merely on account of their color. This exceeding great evil having been introduced among them by men, be it said to their utter disgrace, who came from the enlightened land of Europe, who should according to the light they had, have taught them better things, both by precept and example, neither of which they did. And I am sorry to say there are those who still maintain this same crying evil; but I am thankful to the glorious King of Light, to be able to record that the power of these wicked and unjust men, and their vile cause, is continually decreasing. Now the above named districts, have been visited and settled by men from the various European and other districts, whose motives were for good, while many others were for evil; the most prominent of those who introduced and still sustain slavery are the 
                        Spainards
                        Spaniards
                     , be it said to their utter disgrace and dishonor. And now having briefly noticed South America, we proceed to notice North America, which comprises the United States, British America, Russian America, Danish America, Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies. Now the Mexican district, like the preceding districts, was on its first discovery, in gross darkness and ignorance, being under Abadon's power and dominion, and was occupied by one of the Indian brigades of darkness; yet were they not savages, but had some knowledge of the arts and sciences, but were nevertheless destitute of the knowledge of the King of Light and his government. But the soldiers of Light from the different regiments of the old continent were soon detached in small numbers and despatched into this region, and engaged in organizing regiments for the service of the King of Light, and met with such success, that there are now established many regiments representing the various regiments, from which detachments were sent. 
                  The false Army of Light, it is supposed, has at present the most numerous force concentrated there; for they too were equally as expeditious as the true Army of Light, in sending detachments into this newly discovered land, and as their rules were more in accordance with the regiments of darkness already established, it is not strange they met with such success, as those who became attached to the false army, did not need to make any very great or perceptible change from what they were previously, except in some outward ceremonies, which made little or no change in their real position towards their adherence to the King of Light and his cause; therefore of this region we cannot speak so favorably, in regard to the progress of the Kingdom of Light, as we can of the other districts. The West India and the Central America districts, much resemble the Mexican district in their progress towards the Kingdom of Light; the inhabitants of the last named districts, are said to consist chiefly of the descendants of the African race, who have been long held in servility to the descendants of the European race, as well as in Mexico and the United States. These oppressed people have, therefore, not had the same opportunity as others, for making improvements; but as this cruel system of slavery is fast, through various causes, passing away, they are now making almost unexampled progress in learning and advancement; and many of them are true and valiant soldiers in the Army of Light, many others have long since died in the service, and have been buried in the honors of war. 
                  Now the various other districts that assume European names, do so because they are under the dominion, and subject to the government of European powers; they therefore assume the same name, having been settled by emigrants coming therefrom. In addition to the original inhabitants, they all, as a general rule, adhere to the King of Light, with the exception of the aborigines, many of whom are still in gross darkness, having little or no knowledge of the Kingdom of Light, but great efforts are being made by the Army of Light, through detachments from the different regiments, who are busily employed in organizing companies in the service of the King of Light; and they are successful in their efforts, and have enlisted a number of volunteers. Now these Indians, when first discovered, seemed to have some faint idea of the King of Light, but had not enough to lead them to a full knowledge of him; therefore many soldiers of Light went to their assistance, but there were others who not being soldiers of Light themselves of the Europeans, made cruel war on these defenceless people, and took possession of their land, slaying the rightful owners thereof, much to the discredit of the European race, and their descendants; for they, by fraud, deception, violence, and bloodshed, took possession of all this fair land, that was once owned by the aborigines, whom they killed off and drove back into the desert. So that at this date they have but the smallest part in their possession, and that the most rough and uncultivated portion; thus has it been done to them by the cruelty of these Europeans and their descendants, who now overspread almost the whole length and breadth of this land. 
                  Now the names of the divisions of North America which we have not named, are as follows: Danish America and Russian America, the former under the dominion of the Danes, and includes the islands of Greenland and Iceland, and this is the most northern part of America, and is inhabited by Danes and Indians, and a people called Esquimaux; both of the latter being in gross darkness at the time of the introduction of the Danes amongst them, who being Europeans are much more enlightened, having been under the instruction of the watchman of Zion in their own native land. Some of them too in turn being soldiers of light, instructed these dark and benighted people in the laws of the King of Light, and enlisted some of them as soldiers in the Army of Light, who faithfully served therein untill they were called home from the field. The same may be also said of the Russian district, the Russian inhabitants coming like the Danes from the enlightened division of Europe. They also imparted light and information to and amongst the unenlightened aborigines of the soil with the same like effect, they generally belonging to the Greek division, which in their native land is very numerous, this regiment there having the pre-eminence, being supported by the government, the Emperor being styled its head or colonel, and gives command. 
                  There are other regiments also organized there who are less in number, but it is believed they are more efficient cient, being supposed to be more immediately under 
                        the the
                        the
                      directions of the Comforter, and no branch can be so effective unless directed by him. Now British America includes all of North America, north of the United States, and is divided into the following named districts: Canada East, Canada West. Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Newfoundland. These districts were first in possession of the Indians, who like the before mentioned Indians, were and are still, many of them in gross darkness, and under the power of Abadon, but England has by the King's orders, introduced light amongst them and has organized and put in successful operation, many powerful regiments of the various names, who have fought many battles against the powers of darkness, and have won many decisive victories, and through the ambassadors have reconciled many to King Alpha, who were in rebellion against him, thereby weakening the powers of Abadon, whilst those of Alpha have been greatly strengthened, and that many valiant soldiers have risen up in those districts, who have done noble deeds of valor in the defence of the great and glorious King of Light and his righteous cause, whose names are recorded on high in the King's roll of honor, and will be read by him when the united armies shall be called together for that purpose; and what has been more fully said concerning other districts, the same is true concerning this also. 
                  And now, kind reader, having briefly sketched the outlines and history of the Rise and Progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness on the earth, in all its different divisions and districts, with the exception of the United States, which we now come to notice, and of which we expect to have much to say, being a resident thereof and therefore deeply concerned in all important matters pertaining thereto. The United States at this time consists in a number of districts called States, whose names are as follows, first the New England, viz: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, which are the Eastern States: New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, are termed the Middle States; Maryland, District of Columbia, wherein is the Capital of the United States, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, Louisiana, Georgia, Texas, Florida, which are, with the exception of Arkansas and Tennessee, South Western States. The Western States are as follows: Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana, Kentucky, Illinois, Missouri, Iowa, Minnesota, Tennessee, and Arkansas, California: Oregon, Dacotah, Nebraska, Washington, Utah, New Mexico, Nevada, Colorado, Indian Territory, Arizona, are what is termed territories, having a less population than the former division, which are called States, and is supposed at this time to be one of the leading nations in literature, and the arts and science, and in the wealth of this world, but in her loyalty to King Alpha, she is a nation very far behind her privileges, coming far short of what she ought to be in consideration of the great favors and blessings she has received at his hands. 
                  Now this division, like South America, was at first peopled by the Indians, a people as we have described, that were when first discovered, in gross darkness, being unenlightened by the glorious light of the gospel, as the watchmen of Zion had not sounded the gospel trumpet among them, and they had not yet heard its pleasing sound; but it was now to be blown among them by the gospel trumpeters, who were sent by the King of Light for that express purpose, being commissioned as ambassadors to negotiate with them, and propound conditions of reconciliation and peace to those, who through 
                        iguorance
                        ignorance
                     , and the dark influence of Abadon, were in rebellion against him. Many of these rebellious ones, after receiving instructions from the ambassadors of Light, became reconciled to their rightful sovereign, and took the oath of allegiance to him, and became valiant soldiers in his cause, and faithfully served in his army until they were called home from the battle field, to receive with great joy his approval. Now it is supposed that the first officers and soldiers of the Army of Light, who came into the United States, was a detachment from the Puritan regiment, who being persecuted greatly in Europe, their native land, by the enemies of the King of Light, because of their adherence to him, and their opposition to Abadon and his vile cause, therefore being directed by the Comforter, they emigrated to this strange land, and began their base of operations in the Eastern or New England States, landing first at a place called Plymouth Rock. 
                  They soon after organized a regiment, which grew fast and was very prosperous, for the recruiting officers being expeditious, soon enlisted many volunteers in the land of their adoption; and there were also many transferred to them from the army that occupied the eastern continent, for it was the king's will, that there should be a strong army of occupation concentrated in the western as well as in the eastern continent. And therefore after the Puritan regiment had first led the way, there were detachments from the various regiments composing the grand Army of Light, in the eastern continent, despatched unto the western, to fill up the ranks of the intended army of occupation therein; for here were there to be great battles fought, and victories gained in favor of the Kingdom of Light, for so had the king determined, and for this cause had sent his soldiers of the different regiments. 
                  Now in the meantime, Abadon also was not slack in concentrating his forces and making preparation for a desperate struggle to maintain his dark kingdom, and for this end he had all his officers engaged, such as Messrs. Prejudice, Illwill, Pride, Anger, Malice, Envy, Hatred, Contention, Strife, Discord, Deceit, Deception, Untruth, Unbelief, and many other such like characters, who were and are great champions for his vile cause. These, with his other subordinate officers and privates, being commanded by his generals Lust of the Flesh, Lust of the Eye, and Pride of Life, who are veterans, and well experienced in all the arts of dark warfare, making a strong force against which the soldiers of light have to contend, yet have they nothing to fear, being under the immediate command and direction of the great Comforter, aided by generals Faith, Hope and Charity, of whose exploits and mighty valor we have elsewhere spoken, and also officers Truth, Patience, Meekness, Longforbearance, Longsuffering, Peace, Goodwill, Contrition, Steadfastness, Watchfulness, and such other like officers, who are also veterans and well experienced in all the arts of Christian warfare, and are in battle more than a match for the opposing powers of darkness, who are led by those desperate characters we have spoken of; and if the soldiers of light are attentive to observe all the commands of their officers, they will in every battle gain victory. Now these Eastern districts were and are still in the advance of the Middle, Southern and Western ones in civilization and light, and were the first to do away with African slavery, which was long after supported and upheld by the most of the other districts, and what was worse, there the various regiments, professing to belong to the Army of Light, approved, or did not openly disapprove of this very great and crying evil, which, after having been introduced, went on increasing until it had in a large degree demoralized and corrupted the various regiments composing King Alpha's army of occupation in the western continent; for there were but very few regiments that wholly escaped the contaminating influence of slavery; and at length the very existence of the United States government was endangered thereby, for it occasioned the shedding of much blood to preserve it, all of which is due to the protection which slavery received from the United States government, this being at variance with the laws of King Alpha, all his attributes, which we term his cabinet, being opposed thereto. Now, as we have above said, the New England States, be it said to their praise, were the first to see and get rid of the sin of slavery, and early did they blot it out of the statute books of their moral law, even far in the advance of most of the regiments which professed to belong to the Army of Light, removing it out of their statute book, which is also termed the spiritual law, and is professed to be drawn from King Alpha's law book, which is known to be averse to all manner of sin and oppression. The Puritan regiment in the Eastern States knowing this, conformed thereto, and be it also said to the credit of the Quaker regiment, they at an early date ceased to maintain the grand evil of slavery. Neither was it admitted in the first formation of the Methodist regiment, nor while those men lived who were its founders, who received their orders immediately from the Comforter, and were determined to die rather than to go contrary thereto. But after these valiant veteran soldiers were called home from the field, their successors in arms, I am sorry to record, were not as attentive as they to observe all the orders of the Commander-in-chief. This at last caused a division of the regiment into North and South portions, the North being determined to carry out fully the orders of the commanding general, while that of the South evaded it by attempting to misconstrue and to interpret them differently. Thus did matters continue many days, and the various other regiments were affected more or less by the same cause. Now King Alpha and Omega had in the beginning created all men free and equal, and endowed them with certain rights and privileges, among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
                  Now the well informed reader will know that what is now called the United States, was formerly under, and subject to the government of Great Britain, who founded the colonies, that afterwards became independent states, which thing was brought on through, and by the oppression of the mother country's government, which enacted such laws, and made such restrictions as was thought by the colonies to be unjust and oppressive; therefore did they rebel against the government of Great Britain and took up arms in defence of what they thought were their just rights, and they so far succeeded as to gain their independence, for which they fought; and greatly did they rejoice when having gained the victory; they having previously declared their independence, after which they formed a constitution, heading it with the declaration that we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created free and equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Now this declaration was just and right, and was in accordance with the statutes of the King of Light, and had they carried them out, in their application to others, as well as to themselves, they would no doubt, have had his special favor and protection from all harm, and from the powers of both home and foreign foes. 
                  But it is much to be lamented they did not do unto others, as they wished to be done by, as the King of Light had directed them to do; but instead, they in the face of, and contrary to this broad declaration above named, instituted a form of oppression to the African race, that were among them, that one of their own wisest and best men admitted, a very short period of which to endure, was worse and fraught with more misery than ages of that which their fathers rose in rebellion to oppose. And this unjust and miserable state of things continued long, notwithstanding it was spoken against by many of their wise and best men, but to little or no purpose, as their warning voice was generally disregarded by those who had the rule of government in their hands, who generally were not soldiers in the Army of Light, nor subject to King Alpha; therefore it is not so strange that they should do so unjustly, seeing they were subject to the King of Darkness, instead of the King of Light. But it is much more surprising that any who professed adherence to King Alpha, should so far contradict their profession, as to support so wicked and unjust a thing, yet it was nevertheless done by many who professed ed to stand high in the Army of Light; and there are great reasons to believe that had those professed servants of Light fully discharged their duty, this great evil might much sooner have been remedied, and with much less cost of blood and treasure. But many of those who should have been the watchmen on the walls, to see the sword coming and warn the people, they miserably and shamefully failed to do so, and consequently did not clear their skirts of the blood of the people, and are therefore accountable to the king, whom they profess to serve, for the neglect of a known duty. 
                  Sad and lamentable were the scenes these things in process of time brought on, of which we propose speaking more minutely hereafter, but for the present we conceive it to be our duty to take a brief review of the past and the present state of the grand division of the Army of Light, occupying the United States, which as we have before said, was first organized by detachments that were transferred from the grand army of occupation of the eastern continent, to the western, which as before said, were detached from the various regiments comprising the grand army in the eastern continent. Now these detachments, it is reasonable to suppose, were composed of true and valiant hearted men, who ably defended the cause of their king, and faithfully performed the arduous duties that were committed to their trust; and the numerous volunteers and recruits that were enlisted for the service by them, were generally well drilled in the arts and tactics of christian warfare, so that when they were by their proper officers, led forth to battle, it was generally to certain victory; and in those days there were many great battles fought, which resulted in victory to the King of Light's army, while the Army of Darkness was often defeated and put to flight. Now the cause of their great success in battle, was their being so very careful to observe, and do the commands of their commander in chief and the subordinate officers, who were generally on hand, and in front when the hottest battles tles were fought, and therefore very much exposed to the fire of the enemy; and those who had not on the whole armor, were greatly endangered thereby. Now the most of the regiments admitted the possibility and necessity of putting the whole armor on, but strange to say, many of them contended that it could not be got, and put on fully, until the war was nearly over, and they were done fighting; others contended it could not be put on instantly, but gradually, a piece at a time, until the whole was put on. 
                  Now in this, the Methodist regiment differed from the others, for the founder thereof, who was its first colonel, ascertained that it could, by asking for and in faith believing, be obtained instantly, and that there was nothing that the king desired more, than that his soldiers should have on the whole armor; and therefore when they make application to him earnestly for it, they always receive it at his hands. And with the knowledge of this, the Methodist regiment adopted as a part of their creed, that each soldier should believe this, and believing it, that it was their duty to importune the king to admit them into the armor house, in order that they might obtain and put on the whole armor, and that thereby they might be able to withstand in the evil day; having done all, to stand against all the wiles of Abadon and his forces, for every soldier of Light, more or less, before completing the time of their service, experiences an evil day in which all the artillery of Abadon is levelled at them, at which time it is impossible for them to stand firm without having on the whole armor; therefore it is very essential that every soldier of Light, should have and keep it on, for it is unknown to them at what time this evil day may come; and therefore it is one of the king's ancient war orders, by one of his chosen officers, that his soldiers should put it on; therefore their tears were many, and their cries to him great, that he would condescend to heal them, promising that if he would, they would never rebel against him any more. Then does he on his part, when they have become sufficiently humble, undertake their cause, and speedily makes a perfect cure of them, and gives them great joy and comfort; they then willingly become soldiers in the Army of Light, having laid down their weapons of rebellion. 
                  Many of these same, through the instrumentality of Methodist regiments, made very valiant soldiers, and after having fought many severe battles, and gained many great conquests, at length died and were buried in the honors of war, being called home by their king to the celestial country, there to receive a proper reward of merit due. Thus did the Methodist regiment continue many days to operate, and while so doing they had the approval of their king, who often visited them and anointed them greatly by his presence; for it was due to this that they were so successful in their efforts. Now in those days slavery was not admitted among them, they knowing that it was displeasing to the king, neither did prejudice against their fellow-soldiers, merely on account of the color of the coat the king had put on them, exist to the extent it now does among them, for this twin brother to slavery which has not in vindication thereof the same excuse, for they who held them, considered it to be their temporal interest to do so; for this last named interest should not govern the actions of a true soldier of Light, for they undoubtedly will have to be accountable to their sovereign for all their actions and motives. 
                  Now this true that not all the members of the Methodist regiments, nor of the other various regiments composing the army, that professed to be the Army of Light, had this prejudice against their brethern and fellow-soldiers, because their king had given them a coat of a darker hue than that of their own, yet we must with sorrow admit that the majority of those who profess to belong to the true Army of Light, have become so corrupt, and conformed to the world and Abadon's army, that they practice and do this very unjust thing. Now as we have previously remarked, it is not so surprising that the soldiers of Abadon's army, who are under the command of the World, the Flesh, and himself should do so, but that those who profess to belong to the Army of Light, which is commanded by the Comforter, and such great and good officers as Faith, Hope, and Charity, should do so; it is astonishing above measure, insomuch so that it is impossible to reconcile prejudice with all its train, and those who are supporters thereof, as belonging to the true Army of Light, which is certainly at variance with all such, as being contrary to the known will of the King of Light. 
                  Now in regard to the injustice and inconsistency of this prejudice, volumes might be written concerning it and its effects, in the United States. And as it is a very momentous subject and one that deeply interests the soldiers of light, in the United States, I propose to enter into its merits and demerits, in regard to what has been its effects in time past in the United States, and what it now is, and what it is likely to be, and how it is undoubtedly viewed, by the King of Light himself, for in the first place he made of one blood all nations that dwell upon the face of the earth, they all proceeding from the first pair, the color of whose skin it is reasonably believed, was a medium between the darkest and lightest of their descendants of the present day; their different shades of color or complexion and features, and hair, are attributed to various causes, all of which are beyond their control, making it the more unreasonable that one should despise the other for that which is no fault of his, for it is generally admitted by the most wise and intelligent amongst men of all classes, that one of the main causes of the difference of color, and hair, is through the different climates in which they have for successive ages dwelt, for those who have always dwelt in a hot and burning climate, are found to be the most dark, with curly hair, whilst those who have always lived in a temperate climate, are the most light and have generally straight hair. 
                  Now as the climates and their effects are governed by the King of Light himself, therefore, to despise any on account of their color, is offering an insult to the King of Light himself, who has seen fit in his infinite wisdom to beautify all nature by a variety of shades and colors, and it is not by men in the United States, or elsewhere thought a sufficient cause to despise anything else but mankind in all creation for this same cause, and the idea is certainly absurd and ridiculous to any intelligent mind, for one person to think himself superior to another, merely on account of the difference of his features, or the color of their skin, yet is this great absurdity cultivated, supported, and sustained, by men of all classes of the light colored population of the United States. For even in the Army of Light, the place where it should never be found, there are many who hold very high positions therein, and very many of lower standing, who make a line of demarkation between their colored and white fellow soldiers. 
                  And now we proceed first to describe what has been, and are still the effects of this unjust spirit, in the professed Army of Light in the United States, beginning with the Methodist regiment, with which my predecessors were identified, but were caused to leave on the account of this same prejudice and oppression, and organize a regiment of their own, consisting altogether of colored soldiers. Now the cause that forced them to leave was, that they saw that there was a great deviation in the Methodist regiment, from what it had formerly been, and that impartial love they found among them when they first joined them, and that caused them to leave the alien army and come to them, had become so cold, that the Methodist regiment too, like the alien army they had left, could and did make a line of demarkation between them and their fellow-soldiers of a lighter hue merely on that account, insomuch so that they would not drill them at the same time they did the others, and would not suffer them to set on the same seats as others; and though soldiers of their regiment, they sometimes turned them out of the tent to admit others, who were not. And though one of their number had a special commission from the King of Light, as a watchman or a trumpeter, yet was he not permitted to blow the trumpet nor sound an alarm, and it matters not how much those colored watchmen and ambassadors were in favor of the King of Light, or what their qualifications as competent officers were, yet if the king had clothed them with a dark skin, that alone was considered a sufficient reason why they should not serve in the regiments, in the position their office entitled them to, through their appointment by the king; which thing as a matter of course was offensive both to their king, and these his despised servants. For though he himself stooped so low, as to die for these his colored servants as well as his white, and adopt them into his family, owning them as his children, and giving them the right to claim him as their father, and also to prepare for them splendid mansions in the celestial country, such as is not seen by the eyes of man in the terrestrial land; and unto which happy place and pleasant situation he intended to bring his colored soldiers when they have finished their warfare and accomplished the work he has given them to do, as much so as he will his white soldiers, where they shall set down with him in his kingdom, and associate with his prime ministers, and those who hold the most honorable positions in all the celestial country, and have no lack of anything that is good and desirable. 
                  Now all of these things being left on record in the King's documents, which generally are accessible to all, and which makes it so much the more astonishing that the well-informed Methodist regiments, together with the others equally well informed, should make this marked distinction on account of color, when even to have common judgment, they must know that it is so far contrary to the will of their King, as set forth above, and more fully so in his statute book, to which, for further information, we would refer all those in the Methodist regiments, or any others who are ignorant of these things, and want information; for the colored soldiers, who had long been kept intentionally in ignorance and bondage by their white brethren, as they emerged therefrom, very soon discovered that it was not in accordance with the will of their King that they should be dealt with as they had been both by the Army of Darkness and that which represented itself to be the Army of Light, in which the Methodist regiments and others acted so inconsistent with what these colored soldiers found to be the will of their King, therefore they lost confidence in them, and resolved to form a regiment of their own, in which there would be no distinction on account of color. Now the first regiment of this kind that was organized in the United States was the African Union regiment, now called the American Union regiment; it was first organized by a Peter Spencer and others of the despised race, who were soldiers and trumpeters in the Methodist regiment, and who saw and lamented the oppression of their fellow colored soldiers therein, and for that reason came out and formed an independent regiment of their own, but retained the most essential and important rules and regulations which formerly existed in the Methodist regiments, which rules had been first given to its founder by the Comforter, and were therefore good and right, and whilst keeping them, the King was well pleased with this newly formed and despised regiment, and showed them many marked favors by visiting them himself, and also sending the Comforter, who instructed them in the arts of war, so that this regiment in numbers and efficiency became notable, and produced many valiant soldiers, who fought nobly in the defence of the Kingdom of Light, and gained many conquests, and at length fought with and conquered Death, and by order of their king, was called home to the celestial city, where he dwells, to receive his approbation, and at his hands palms of victory and crowns of glory, where the voice of the oppressor is no more heard, and the weary are at rest; and there is still some left in this regiment that are resolved never to desert the cause in which they have enlisted, but stay and fight until the war is ended. Now the founders of the Union regiment, believing that the King of Light being a perfectly just and righteous King, and was therefore not pleased with the oppression that did exist in the United States, therefore did they and their successors, with many others of the same race who were not identified with their regiment, send up many petitions to the King by the hands of Messrs. Weteyes, Contrition and Faith, signed by the Commander-in chief, the Comforter, praying that he in his great mercy would graciously condescend to deliver them out of the hands of their cruel oppressors, for the oppression they received at the hands of both the professed soldiers of light and those also of darkness, was cruel above any that was endured by any other people; for the slavery that was supported by the laws of the United States gave power to those who were recognized by these unjust laws as masters, to sell the husband from the wife, the wife from the husband, the children from the parents, and the parents from the children, into hopeless bondage, in which they might never hope to meet again in time, and where they would often have to smart under the lash of their cruel oppressors, who would often inflict this punishment upon them for little or no cause, even until the blood would trickle down to their heels, and sometimes their punishment has resulted in death; and there have been instances in which they have been severely punished even unto death because they would not refrain from calling on the King of Light and praying to him. These things caused the members of the Union regiment, with many others, even all the true soldiers of light in the United States, to make petition to the King that this state of things should be changed. Now these poor despised colored soldiers, many of whom were slaves, some of them to their fellow-soldiers, who professed to be fighting for the same sovereign, one of the petitions which they sent up ran in this wise, and which for many years was sung by them even thus: 
                         
                           When will Jehovah hear my cry, 
                           And free the sons of Africa? 
                        
                      And the answer to this that was brought back to them by Mr. Faith and his comrades was thus: That the King in his own time would make a way to free the sons of Africa. Now your humble servant, the author, who is a member and watchman in the Union regiment, is happy to record that he with others has been blessed to live to see the day that this promise made by the King and reported by Mr. Faith a number of years ago, has now been fulfilled to the great satisfaction of the descendants of the African race, and all other true soldiers of light. The manner in which the King has brought this to pass, we intend to take further notice of hereafter, if permitted by our King. Now although this great and mighty work has been accomplished, we have yet to lament the remains of prejudice under which the writer, together with others of his race, have yet to labor and combat with, for it greatly affects both the Church and State. Now the Church is the various regiments composing the grand Army of Light, and the State is the moral or civil law of the land, and is in close affinity with the Church, one defending the other, and as regards the putting down of slavery, the State was in the advance of the professed Church, for it must be admitted that if the Church had done its duty, slavery could not have existed as long as it did, neither could prejudice be so abundant in the land as it now is, and it is certain that the Congress of the United States has made greater efforts and done more to do away with prejudice and to establish equal rights before the law for all men, irrespective of color or complexion, than what the Church in general has ever yet done, which is a great shame to those who profess to belong to the Army of Light-that the children of this world should supersede them in doing that which is just and right; yet this we can say in the defence of the Methodist regiment of the Army of Light, North, that they for a number of years have not admitted their members to hold slaves, and that they finally dissolved their connection with the Church South on this account, and it was greatly to their credit to do so, for in so doing, they conformed to the regulation under which their regiment was first organized, thus far pleasing the King of Light. Nevertheless, it must be confessed that prejudice to color which years ago became a guest of theirs, in common with other regiments, is still entertained and cherished by them greatly to their hurt. Now soon after the organization of the Union regiment, the African Methodist regiment was organized by a Richard Allen and others, who were its founders, being descendants of Africa, and who disconnected themselves from their white brethren of the Methodist regiment, for the same cause that the African Union regiment had previously done so, calling themselves by the name of the same regiment from which they came, with only African attached, and forming themselves on the same basis, with the same rules and regulations, and differing but little if any from what they had formerly been, with the exception that they were Africans subject to their own independent government. 
                  But being formed after the manner of the aforesaid regiment, therefore they were not so original as the African Union regiment, so that those of their colored brethren who were members of the Methodist regiment, and were so partial to all the rules and regulations thereof, had little or no sacrifice to make in coming out, and becoming members of the African, for it was rather a gain to them, as they thereby obtained equal rights among their brethren, of which they were deprived in the white Methodist regiment; this will account in a measure for their greater increase than that of the Union regiment, seeing they had to differ so little from what they formerly were, and therefore there were more came to them out of the Methodist regiment, than there did to the 
                        Uuion
                        Union
                     ; and in addition to this, both of these regiments have taken in many recruits, who were formerly in Abadon's army, but now rejoice to fight under the blood-stained banner of King Alpha, so that if these two regiments continue to observe all the commands of their general in chief, they will do much to establish the Kingdom of Light in the United States and elsewhere. But we must here remark that there is scarcely any regiment now in existence, who have not deviated from their first principles, and become greatly adulterated and consequently lost the power they once had; and here the writer who has a partiality and a deep regard for the Methodist regiment, notwithstanding all its present failings, as being the one from which the regiment in which he is a member sprang, is caused with sorrow to pause and remark, that by their leaving some of their first principles, and conforming more to the spirit of this world, and adopting many of the customs of other regiments, who have long since lost the power they once enjoyed, they like them have lost in a large degree the power they once had, which could, and did cause the powers of Darkness to tremble, in which time very many were slain by the sword of the spirit handled by the valiant soldiers of this regiment, and the arrows of the watchmen of the same. 
                  Now they had been told by their former officers who were under the immediate direction of the Comforter, to be exemplary in dress and other outward things, and to love not the world, nor the things of it, and that whosoever did, the love of King Alpha was not in them; yet did the Methodist regiment, that is, many of their members, but not all so far deviate from this wholesome instruction, that they like the world, and other luke-warm regiments, gave themselves up to gay and costly apparel, and grand and costly drill-houses, with bells and high steeples attached thereto, which cost much that had better been given to the poor among them; also in the inside there were splendid decorations and ornaments, and also whereas they had been directed by the order of the king, when they sing, to sing with the spirit and the understanding. 
                   
                  They so far deviated from this that they often employed the enemies of the King of Light, and friends of the King of Darkness, to lead the singing part of their devotion, which they undoubtedly could not do in the spirit, that is to say through the assistance of the Comforter, and therefore it could not be acceptable nor pleasing to King Alpha. Moreover, they at length got to using instrumental music in their devotion, like other regiments who had lost the power, and had nothing left but the form. Now none of these things would have been admitted by the founders of Methodism, who were under the immediate direction of the Comforter, and was careful to observe all that he commanded them, not caring to please the world, which seems to be the reverse of the mind of their ancestors, who in adopting the above named things, appear to have in view the pleasing of the world as their especial object, rather than as a command that they must needs do in order to please the King of Light, for we have no knowledge of any command under the Gospel dispensation being given by him to that effect. Therefore we are sorry to see that the African Methodist regiment, has made great progress in the same direction, and we are still more sorry the colored Union American regiment with which we are identified, are taking steps in the same direction, and have at this date so far advanced as to have choirs introduced into two tents in our encampment, and which are as above said composed of some of the enemies of the King of Light, and friends to the King of Darkness, and consequently cannot be pleasing to King Alpha. 
                  And therefore, as a watchman on the walls of Zion, being appointed by my great and glorious king, I lift my warning voice in protestation against all of these things, especially in any of the Methodist regiments, who were opposed to them in the beginning. 
                  We must briefly notice the colored Wesley regiment, that also sprung from the white Methodist regiment, and came out for the same causes as the aforesaid and formed a regiment to themselves, differing somewhat from the original. And what has been already said of the other colored regiments in a general point of view is the same with it, therefore we will not enlarge thereon; meaning no disrespect to them: but having said thus much concerning the corrupting influences of slavery, prejudice, and other evils on the Methodist regiments of the Army of Light, we return to notice the effects of slavery and prejudice to color, in the various regiments composing the Army of Light in the United States, and also the civil government of the same, for slavery as we have before said, was supported in all the various regiments except one, namely the Quaker regiment, and it was argued by some that it was a divine institution, authorized by the King of Light himself. 
                  Nothing of course could be more untrue, for he had expressly commanded with his own mouth, while in the terrestrial country, to do unto all men, as you wish to be done by, as there are none who wish to be made slaves themselves, nor be treated ill on account of their color; this one command alone was sufficient to condemn slavery and prejudice in the eyes of any person of intelligence. But the king gave a number of other commands to the same effect, one in particular, which is to love thy neighbor as thyself. Now as plain as were these commandments, there were many who held high offices in the various regiments, who professed to not see them as having any bearing on slavery, as condemnatory thereto; there were others again, who professing to be wise, were nevertheless so ignorant as to argue that the African race is an inferior race, and therefore ought to serve the Caucassian, whom they contend, are a superior race; yet there is nothing in history that will sustain them in this their absurd opinion, neither ancient nor modern, sacred nor profane. There were some again who professing to be wise, were nevertheless so foolish as to assert that the African race was not fully human, but was a link between mankind and the brute creation; thus did they argue to sustain themselves in their injustice towards this oppressed and downtrodden people, whom they desired still to keep under foot. 
                  Now the United States was divided into two sections, namely: Northern and Southern States, the civil laws of the Southern States generally supporting slavery, while those of the North did not. So the regiments that occupied the South, also supported slavery, while those in the North, they did not hold slaves, because the civil laws would not admit them to do so. But their own laws did not prohibit them from it, and they were in close fellowship with their Southern brethren who did, sanctioning thereby their acts, and was in this respect, behind the civil laws of the land, which they should have been far in the advance of setting them the example, and instead of supporting slavery and prejudice to color, they should have made war against them, as being the enemies to the King of Light, and opposed to his kingdom, and the prosperity and progress thereof. But to the shame of the professed Army of Light, and the most of the terrestrial officers thereof, they were exceedingly slothful to attack these grand enemies to their king and his cause, they fearing more to offend the men of the world, than the King of Light himself; thus it may be plainly seen that the enemies, being left to grow and flourish, they increased greatly, until at length they became so strong, that they corrupted and demoralized, in a large degree, the entire army of occupation in the United States, 
                        unfiitting
                        unfitting
                      them for entering into any very great and important battles against the powers of darkness; this in brief is the way that slavery and prejudice affected the Army of Light in the United States, similar to what it did in the Methodist regiment, which has been faithfully described, until at length the Abolition regiment came to the rescue. 
                  Now to a William Lloyd Garrison of Boston, is due the honor, for being the first in the United States, who attempted to organize this regiment, and he was so successful in his attempts, that in a short time this regiment became very strong and powerful, and finally at length did more to put down slavery and prejudice, than all the combined regiments of Light had previously done in the Western Continent, for this was the object for which it was formed to make war, especially on slavery and prejudice, who had set themselves up to oppose the onward progress of the Kingdom of Light. And most nobly did this powerful regiment fulfill its mission, for it had the especial favor of the King of Light, and of all his cabinet, and every true subject of his, of every regiment composing the various grand divisions of the Army of Light, in all the celestial and terrestrial countries; for it was truly said by a wise and great man of the United States, when viewing with deep interest in his day and time, the then present and future prospects of his country, and seeing the oppression that was done therein to the African race, that he trembled for his country, when he remembered that the great King of Light was just, and that his justice would not always linger, and that in the war between liberty and oppression, the king had no attributes that could take sides with the oppressors against the oppressed, for Mercy, Truth, Justice, Charity, and all the rest of his cabinet were in favor of the oppressed, while they were equally opposed to their oppressors; so therefore as the Abolition regiment, having for its object, the putting down of oppression, was sanctioned by all those that were good and right, and of every regiment of Light, there were those who co-operated with them, either directly or indirectly, so that they soon became very strong, though at their first start they were much persecuted, their founder being at one time it is said, tarred and feathered, and dragged through the streets of Boston, his native city; and for many years there was a standing reward offered for his head in the slave States, others again had their property destroyed and punishment inflicted upon their person, and sometimes their lives taken. All this was done because they protested against slavery and prejudice, that they were wrong, and ought therefore to be abolished. 
                  But none of these things deterred these faithful and true men from the discharge of the arduous duty that had been committed to them by the King of Light, for we can well afford to say that the founder, and the active officers and soldiers of this regiment, truly received their commission from him, being signed by his Father in the courts on high; and in the discharge of their duty, they did not fail to attack the corrupting influence of slavery that had crept in unawares in the various regiments in the Army of Light in the United States, showing with unanswerable arguments, the inconsistency of slavery and prejudice being admitted or allowed in the Army of Light, when it was evident that it was contrary to the will of their king, as set forth plainly in his statute book, to which they referred them for the truth of what they said, by the searching of which, those who did so carefully and prayerfully, were readily convinced of the truth of what these Abolitionists declared, and therefore there were many great and wise men joined their ranks, and both in church and State, cooperated with them for the destruction of prejudice to color and slavery out of the land; this had the effect first to cause the various regiments of the Army of Light to consider, and some to take action thereon, and was the means of dividing some of the regiments, for as we have before said, the civil law in the Southern States supported slavery, while in the North it did not. Therefore the portion of the various regiments that occupied the South, generally supported slavery, while some but not all in the North did not; those who in the South did, their fellow-soldiers and officers of the same regiment in the North, dissenting from them, caused a division in these regiments, they in the South going contrary to the laws of the King of Light to conform to the civil law of the South, which was in this respect, in accordance with laws of the King of Darkness, yet they professed to be soldiers of Light, which it is hard to believe is the fact, seeing they yield obedience to the King of Darkness to please the world, rather than the King of Light, for which if they do not repent and pray for his forgiveness, they will have to give an account to him in a coming day; for if they had acted their part, and done as the Abolitionists desired them, it might have prevented the shedding of much blood. For faithfully did the Abolition watchman, who stood on the walls and saw the sword coming, warn those who would hear them of the danger of not letting the oppressed go free, as the King of Light had commanded. They told them if they continued to disobey him, he would ere long visit the land with sword, pestilence, or famine, for by one or the other of these scourges, or by them all, is the king accustomed to chastise those nations, who after being warned repeatedly by his servants Whom he sends unto them, and yet they will not hearken, but continue to go on in transgression, until their cup of iniquity is full, then is he bound in vindication of his justice to pour out his wrath upon them. 
                  To the Army of Light first did the Abolition watchman proclaim these things, and as there were many of all grades of society who joined their ranks, there were therefore included in their number, senators and representatives of States, and some of the most intelligent men of the nation, who in their place. and in the congress of the United States, lifted their warning voice to their countrymen, telling them of the injustice of slavery, and the evils that would result from its continuance. This they did with powerful speeches and arguments that were unanswerable, and their opposers failing to find anything better to sustain them in their erroneous views, ignorantly referred to what they claimed to be the inferiority of the African race, bringing this as a reason why it was right to oppress them; but as we have before said, there is nothing in ancient history nor modern observation that will sustain the supposition that the descendants of Africans are of an inferior ferior race, and it would be just as easy to prove that the European race are an inferior race, for in what they now excel others, is due to the light of the Gospel under which they have lived for many ages, whilst the African race has lived equally as long in heathenish darkness, and are just now emerging to the light, and where they have had equal privileges and opportunities, their intellect, talents and proficiency will not compare unfavorably with their white brethren; and as to those would-be wise orators who have advocated human slavery on the ground of inferiority of the race, their arguments have not spoken flatteringly of their own intellect or superiority; and some of them, when they have failed by sound reasoning to carry their points, they have resorted to brute force and violence, insulting and maltreating in the national halls some of the wisest and best men the country could boast of, intending thereby to prevent the discussion of this very important question in the house of Congress; but nevertheless, notwithstanding all their vain endeavors, they could not succeed in silencing this question, for it was decreed by the King of Light that it should be agitated until in some way it had the effect of putting down slavery and oppression. Now there was at this period in the congress of the United States two great political parties represented, namely, the Republicans and the Democrats, the former being not partial to slavery, was opposed to its extension into territory then free, while the latter, being generally favorable there-to, did not oppose it. But as for the Abolition members, there were some of them who took sides with the Republicans against slavery. This caused great contentions between these two parties in the House, the Southern members threatening that if slavery was not supported, or was interfered with in any way by the general government, so as to prevent its continuance forever, or extension into free territory, they would dissolve the Union and withdraw therefrom, and form a separate government to themselves, the foundation of which should be slavery. But the Republican members, who were largely in the majority, were not to be deterred from their purpose to do right by their threats, but went on still to do what they believed to be for the good of the whole country. This provoked the Southern members very much, and caused them to use a great deal of abusive and insulting language, which did not speak very highly of their superiority. This state of things continued for some length of time and until finally the Republicans elected Abraham Lincoln, a man of their own political views, to the Presidency, which is the highest office the nation can promote to or confer upon any of its citizens. This so enraged the Southern members and their constituents, that they made the attempt to fulfill their threat of withdrawing from the Union and firing on its flag, and attempting the capture of the National Capitol. This brought on one of the bloodiest civil wars that history gives any account of, all of which was due to the general government supporting and sustaining slavery, that great sin against the King of Light. Now if the warning voice of the Abolition watchman had been heeded by the people of the United States, and they had taken timely warning while they yet were blessed with peace and prosperity, and had wiped away from the statutes of their national government the sin and stain of slavery, these terrible things could not have come upon them, but as had been said by one of their own wise and good men, that a national sin required a national punishment, and this being a crime of deepest dye, therefore it had to be washed away in blood, as has been written by an obscure colored poet, who broke out in language like unto this: 
                         
                           After argument had failed, 
                           Peaceful means had not prevailed. 
                           And good men had been assailed, 
                           Who in general had bewailed 
                           This great national transgression. 
                           Praying for the emancipation 
                           Of the slaves of this great nation, 
                           Who so long had borne oppression. 
                            
                           Then the God who rules creation, 
                           Did decree Emancipation 
                           Should be wrought in this our nation. 
                           Though through blood the Proclamation 
                           Should be carried to the oppressed, 
                           Who had long been dispossessed, 
                           And their prayer unto the blessed 
                           Has been answered, stands confessed. 
                        
                     
                   
                  The above was written in reference to a proclamation that was issued by President Lincoln, while the aforesaid civil war was in operation, freeing the slaves of those states that were in rebellion against the general government of the United States. This proclamation was carried into effect, but there yet appeared to be a disposition in the President and the government to only free slaves as a necessity in order to preserve the Union, and where it could not be done without it. And they were at first opposed to admitting colored soldiers into the army, to help to put down the slaveholders' rebellion, lest thereby they would be under some obligation to their colored help, and be expected to grant unto them further privileges than they desired to give, and lest also they would thereby give offence to their own white soldiers and their friends, who were in the rebellious states; for prejudice still existed to that extent that it was thought by many of these United States white soldiers, a disgrace to fight in company with black soldiers, and to prevent offending them they refrained from employing colored soldiers as long as possible. But as the King of Light had sent this war upon the nation as a scourge for their oppression of their colored brethren, many of whom were soldiers in the King of Light's own army and especial favorites of his, and held daily communications with him, sending to and receiving messages from him, therefore he did not intend they should know peace again until the object was gained for which he had sent war upon them, for the sin of slavery and oppression was upon the North as well as upon the South, for they had sustained the South therein; therefore they could not succeed as they desired, for neither side seemed for a time willing to admit that this war was a visitation sent on them, by the King of Light for their cruelty and injustice to the African race, and therefore there were very many on both sides caused to be slain in battle before their proud hearts were humbled enough even to accept the aid of colored soldiers to protect their government and bring the war to a close; and ere they had come to this, there was mourning for the dead in almost every house, like unto what it was in Egypt when the Israelites were held in a bondage there similar to that in which the Africans were held here, and which caused them to cry to the King of Light for deliverance, who heard them and came to their relief like these despised Africans had done; and he also had heard them and came to their relief; and when mild means had proved ineffectual, he laid his heavy hand upon the nation and resolved to subdue them and bring them into subjection to his will, or blot their nation out of existence. To avoid this, they became willing to receive colored volunteers, and moreover to employ those who had formerly been slaves, and give them their freedom when the war was over. When they had come to this conclusion, and had received colored soldiers into their ranks, they soon began to gain decided victories over those who fought to support slavery; for the King of Light being more pleased with these their last proceedings, therefore he gave them victory, and whilst these things were going on, the Republican party and its abolition members were using their best endeavors to so amend the Constitution that slavery could never again exist within the limits of the United States government. This, I am happy to say, they at length accomplished by a two-third vote, though they were greatly opposed by the Democratic members generally, who sympathised with slavery, yet, thanks be to the King of Light, they prevailed, and peace was again established, and the country free from the stain of slavery, which, as we have said, had to be washed away in blood; for it too had shed much innocent blood; amongst the number of whom was one John Brown, a good man who a few years before wanted the slaves freed without the shedding of blood. The American people were not willing at that time to accept of this either with or without the shedding of blood, and therefore they unjustly condemned him to death, which was executed by hanging, he dying calling on the name of the King of Light, and was received by him into the mansions on high. His execution, together with the blood of many poor innocent slaves and others who had been martyred by this same slave power, which had been supported by the government of the United States, this, in the opinion of the writer, filled up the cup of national iniquity, which was almost filled up to the brim before, and brought down the King of Light's vindictive wrath on this guilty nation's devoted head, which terminated in the bloody war of which we have spoken. And to climax the whole and make slavery odious forever and detestable in the eyes of the intelligent American people, the blood-thirsty slaveholding power, in its dying struggle, as though not having been the cause of shedding enough blood, and expending enough treasure, furthermore, as one of its last and most notorious and bloodiest acts, proceeded to stretch forth its bloody hands in the assassination, through one of its tools, of the President of the United States, whom the country generally rejoiced to call Father Abraham, and the late emancipated slaves looked upon him as their Moses and deliverer, who had, under King Alpha, brought them out of bondage; and he is generally believed to have been one of the best, if not the very best President, that the United States has ever had, and as he had borne for four years the burden and the responsibility of one of the most trying wars that history gives account of, and through his administration had given general satisfaction, therefore, the people had learned to love and respect him, and the news of his sudden death gave universal grief; and there were many who wept as for a near and dear relation, and there was more general mourning than had ever been known to be in the United States. What made this stroke seem to fall heavier was, that the war was just about to come to a close, and the Union army was everywhere victorious, and the people were in the height of rejoicing at the reception of the news of these victories; when the sad tidings came of the assassination of their much loved and honored chief, it seemed a grief almost too great to bear, and the people generally wore badges in token of mourning.; even the very tents of the Army of Light in the various regiments were draped in deep mourning similar to what is done when a prominent officer in the Army of Light is called home. And it is believed of Abraham Lincoln, that though he was chosen by men, yet was he also chosen by the King of Light to accomplish the great work he had now done through the assistance of others, namely, the freeing of the slaves; and having finished his work, he was called from works to reward, and received the approval of the King of Light. 
                  And now, kind reader, having, as we suppose, partly redeemed our promise of entering into a detail of the effects of slavery in the United States, allow us to make a few passing remarks on its origin, and the brutality and cruelty of its originators. To do this it will require us to go back to the time when the Africans dwelt at ease in their own country, the fruitful soil of which yielded them enough of almost everything necessary for their sustenance, and that with little or no labor, the climate being such as almost to exclude the necessity of clothing. In this easy state the Europeans found them, of course not blessed with the light of the gospel, and consequently they were in gross darkness and unacquainted with the arts and sciences; therefore they were an easy prey to those better informed Europeans who had come amongst them, not for the purpose of doing them good, but much harm. This, it is said by their own (European) writers, they did first by inciting them to war one against another, and when they had taken prisoners, inducing them to sell these prisoners to them; others again they would kidnap themselves, and so they would accumulate whole shiploads, whom they would stow away so closely that many thousands of them would die on their passage to the United States; and it is said more died than reached the place of their destination, and those who did so fared far better than those who did not, as they thereby escaped the long continued barbarous and cruel treatment that those who survived met with; and it is said that those who died on their passage and those who fell in these wars incited by these Europeans, whose descendants boast of their superiority, would amount to millions. Now if this be a proof of superiority, the writer is willing to belong to the race which has given no such proof, and it has always seemed strange to him, since he has taken any consideration on the matter, that American slavery, which had its origin in such cruelty and injustice as above stated, should ever be considered right by men of intelligence, and he has long since come to the conclusion that the men who do so, if the same had been inflicted on themselves and their predecessors, they would then have a very different opinion; for instance, suppose England or any other country that is at peace with this nation, should send ships of war, or their captains were to take the responsibility on themselves to visit some unprotected part of the United States and violently or through deception take many shiploads of men, women and children, and carry them to a foreign land, and there make slaves of them. The question I would put to those who say slavery is or ever was right, is this: If it was not right at first to carry thus peaceful, inoffensive inhabitants of the United States into bondage, how long would it be needful to hold them and their descendants in bondage to make it right, or can a thing that is wrong in the beginning ever become right by continuing ing in the same way? Now, having said thus much in regard to slavery, which I trust now is dead forever, and needs no further combating, I return to take notice of the prejudice to color, which did not die with slavery, but is still rampant in the land, stalking abroad and everywhere to be seen. As I perceive him to be a grand enemy to my King and his cause, therefore, as a true soldier of his, I propose to make war upon him, and as a watchman, to blow the trumpet and give the alarm. And in the attack I wish to call to my aid every true soldier of light, and in order to do this, I will proceed to show that he is an enemy to the King of Light, and that the King is equally as much against it. Now, in the first place, the King has left it on record that he himself is no respecter of persons, but in every nation he that fears him and works righteousness, is acceptable in his sight. We infer that it matters not what his color is, his works alone recommend him to the king's favor, and we are informed in the King's record that he tasted death for every man, and if so, we infer that he died for the black man as well as the white. 
                  Again, the King says all that will come to him may come and live, none being excluded on account of color. And again, when on the earth in person, he said, Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. This invitation must also extend to the colored man. Again, on the great day of the feast, the King stood and cried, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink, not once excluding the colored man. And again, when speaking to his soldiers in the field, many of whom are colored, he said, He that overcometh will I grant to set down with me on my throne, even as I have overcome and set down with my Father on his throne, showing very evidently that to this very high and exalted position will he promote his soldiers who faithfully serve him without regard to color or complexion. We pause here to inquire of any intelligent mind, is it not a passing shame and a great inconsistency that soldiers who are fighting for the same king, expecting the same exceeding great reward whilst they are encamped together on the tented field in these low grounds of sorrow, to make such great distinction on account of color, when the King himself in the celestial land will make no exception, but reward every man according to his works, and receive all alike into high and honorable positions, and make them heirs and joint heirs with him in his kingdom. Again, the King has declared in referring to the general review day, when the united armies shall be called home from every battle field, the war having finally come to a close, at which time he will assemble all the bright celestial armies, and all those who have ever fought in the terrestrial army, and all that ever shall and those also who have been in rebellion against him, at which time he will judge them and reward every man according to his works. He will at that time draw a division line between his own soldiers and those of Abadon, seating his own on the right, and Abadon's on the left, and will say to them on the right hand, Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; for I was in hunger and ye fed me, thirsty and ye gave me drink, naked and ye clothed me, sick and in prison, and ye visited and administered unto me; and when they shall inquire when they saw him thus, and done thus unto him, he in answer to them, shall say, Inasmuch as ye did it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye did it unto me, referring to those on his right, of all people, kindreds and tongues, amongst whom no doubt there will be many who were once African slaves; and unto those on his left hand, he will say. Depart ye cursed into everlasting fire, prepared for Abadon and his angels, for I was in hunger and ye fed me not, thirsty and ye gave me not to drink, naked and ye clothed me not, sick and in prison, and ye visited me not. When they also inquire when they saw him thus, and did not administer to his necessities, in answer to which he will say, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these my brethren, ye did it not to me, and because of their not treating his people right, therefore they shall go away into everlasting punishment; but the righteous who have done their duty towards their brethren, shall take up their march to the holy city, into which they will be admitted, and welcomed by their King. 
                  But as we propose in our conclusion to give a further description of the exterior and interior of this greatly renowned city, and of the triumphant entrance of these innumerable victorious hosts therein, and of their great reception, therefore we will at present forbear, and pursue our course in the further discussion of prejudice and its effects. Now it may very plainly be seen by the above brief and limited account, of what are the views, and what will be the judgment of the great and almighty King of Light, in regard to the treatment of his people who are composed of all nations, people, kindred, and tongues, without regard to shades, colors, or complexions; and we are plainly told in his word, to which we have free access, that he himself makes no exception or distinction on account of anything but actions, and we are furthermore told, that whatever way we treat his people, he will consider it treating himself in the same manner, and will in consequence reward us accordingly. 
                  There are none of common intelligence will deny that there are many colored persons, who are true and faithful servants of his, yet they are ill treated, merely because of their color, of whom the king in judgment will say to those arraigned at the bar, in the persons of my colored brethern, me have you excluded from your churches and pulpits, and when admitted to places of public resort, such as camp meetings, and such like places, me have you appointed to the back and most dishonorable seats, and in many instances, me have you excluded from public conveyances, such as street cars and the like; me have you considered unfit to set in your common assemblies, and in the persons of my watchmen whom I have called and appointed pointed to stand on the walls, me have you not allowed in your places of common resort, to lift a warning voice to the people, me have you not allowed to sleep on the same bed, nor eat at the same table with others, me have ye proscribed and hated, and despised and abused, without cause, and shown more regard to even your beasts in many instances, than ye did to me; also my testimony have ye refused to hear, while ye would hear another, and in almost every way have ye abused and misused me in the persons of these my colored brethren, who have served me so faithfully, that I even I have accounted them worthy to wear crowns of victory, and to set down with me in my kingdom, and be amongst the invited guests at my marriage supper, and moreover to inhabit the mansions that I have prepared for them in my Father's house, which will far exceed any of these corruptible places from which they are excluded on the earth. And because ye have treated them as I have described, and in doing so have treated me likewise, therefore depart from me, ye workers of iniquity; and many of you have made loud profession, yet continuing in the practice of these things, I never knew you, therefore depart from me, ye workers of iniquity into the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, prepared for Abadon and his angels; as ye like them have merited this, and we are told by the King, that those who have done these things, shall go away into everlasting punishment. 
                  And now my fellow watchmen of every shade and complexion, and every regiment constituting the general Army of Light, in all the terrestrial country, I appeal to you: is it not needful, is it not our bounden duty to lift up our united voices, and cry against this great evil, which is a twin brother to slavery, which has done such great havoc in this our land. I shall I doubt not, have the cordial, may I not say hearty co-operation of my colored fellow watchmen, but why not also my white fellow watchmen; says one, it does not affect us as much as it does you. I am perfectly willing to admit, as colored people it does not affect us very much; but I am not prepared to admit that it affects us any more than it does you, or 
                        th t
                        that
                      it is in any way, more our duty than it is yours to cry against it, and it would hardly seem as much; for in the first place, the people to whom we have access are not so guilty of the crime, as those that you have access to; secondly, as it is your regiments that are most guilty of transgressing this law of our king, therefore there are more for you to do, than for us in this direction, as you must know as well as us, that if your regiment stands in judgment before the king, with this guilt upon them, they will be driven in dishonor from his presence, and consigned to the awful punishment, of which we have spoken; therefore we presume that you, as true watchmen on the walls of our Zion, will not suffer them to go to destruction unwarned, lest their blood should fall upon you. But says one, if we tell them of these things, they will be offended at us, and despitefully use, and perhaps cast us unpaid, out of our position in our regiment; to this we would reply, that if for obeying the King of Light, they would treat you thus, the sooner you are out of it the better for you, for let them pretend what they will, they nevertheless are not a regiment of Light, but one of Darkness, and will be so accounted by King Alpha, when he comes to reckon with them. 
                  We are well aware that in almost all the professed regiments of light in the United States, prejudice to color does exist to that extent, that if a watchman was to fully discharge his duty, and faithfully warn the people of his regiment of the evils thereof, and protest against it openly he would thereby greatly offend many of its members, who are so ignorant as to think that they with a white skin, could not be more degraded and insulted, than to be equalized with their fellow soldiers who have a black skin; and that watchman, who being true and loyal to his King, was found bold enough to do so might expect the wrath of these ignorant pretenders to be soldiers of light upon them, for no wise and true soldier of light, who understands the will of their king can so act, or be offended at his watchman for declaring his will, and if even they do we ask our fellow-watchmen in the name of common sense, and of all that is good and gracious, are ye who have 
                        recieved
                        received
                      your commission from on high, and who ere long with the hitherto obscure writer, must be summoned into the august presence of the King of kings, who when appointing us to the high position of watchman on the walls of Zion, particularly charged us when we saw the sword coming we should warn the people, which if we failed to do, and through our failing to do so they should die in sin, their blood would be required at our hands. Nevertheless if we warned them we would thereby clear our skirts of their blood, and though they died in their sins, yet their blood should fall on their own heads. We ask again are we, are ye in the face of all these things to be intimidated from discharging our known duty, for fear of offending those ignorant enemies to our king who professing to be his friends, are yet nevertheless his foes; for none but foes could be offended at his servants for obeying him. Are we then to offend our king from whom we have received all the good things that we have ever enjoyed, and at whose hands we expect so much more if we continue to obey him, are we to offend him to please his enemies; in response to this inquiry, I think I hear from every true watchman in the Army of Light of every regiment a hearty No, we will never demean, degrade, and debase, ourselves so low as thus to violate the orders that have been expressly given to us by our great and glorious king, and thereby incur his righteous displeasure merely to have the favor of wicked men, who would incite us to acts that would endanger our eternal welfare as well as theirs, and be injurious to the cause we espouse. 
                  And now, having said thus much, my fellow watchmen, which we deem sufficient to incite every true watchman to action, not that we consider that we alone have seen and felt the necessity of action in regard to this very important matter, or that we are better informed than others on this subject, and therefore capable of teaching our fellow-watchmen their duty; we do not think so by any means, for we consider the very wise and intelligent watchmen in the various regiments of the Army of Light, as a general rule, much better informed on this and other subjects than ourself. But as we perceive from past experience, that it does not always follow that because men know their duty, they therefore perform it, or else, in our opinion, the great effusion of blood in the United States might and would have been prevented, for it is chargeable not to the ignorance but to the neglect of the watchmen of the different regiments of light that this came to pass, for there is every reason to believe that if all the watchmen had discharged their duty in crying against the sin of slavery, it would long since have been abolished peaceably, and would never rose in rebellion against the government, causing the vast waste of blood and treasure, and filling the land with widows and orphans. We are forced to charge the most of this to the neglect of the watchmen to do their duty, for there were but few who publicly and privately cried against it. But instead, there were some who supported it, and held that it was a divine institution, and was therefore right, and ought not to be abolished. For this reason those whose temporal interest it was to hold slaves, finding that they could do so, and still keep their position in the professed Army of Light, and that it was not condemned by the watchmen of the same, but rather sanctioned, therefore they and their children continued in the practice of this great sin, which brought on the nation the severe punishment which it received at the hand of the King of Light, who is as much displeased with the sin of prejudice to color as he was to the sin of slavery. And he will undoubtedly visit it with the same if not a greater punishment if it is continued; for in this, war is made on himself, he being the originator of color. Therefore prejudice to color being an enemy to him and the prosperity of his kingdom (especially in the United States, for here it seems most prevalent), it is the duty of the watchmen to give the alarm, that the Army of Light may put itself in battle array against it, and sweep it from the face of the earth. Above we have used the word professed Army of Light, because we cannot believe that they who are guilty of such deeds as we have spoken of can be anything more than professed soldiers of light. Neither can we believe that any regiment that really belongs to the true Army of Light would suffer such to remain in its ranks, and those regiments who do, have become so corrupt that without a reformation, when they come to be reviewed by the King on the general review day, he will not own them for his, but instead, will say to them, Depart from me ye workers of iniquity, I never knew you; and they then with shame will have to take their departure with the rest of Abadon's vile crew, to take up their everlasting abode where there is weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth, instead of everlasting joy, as might have been theirs if they had only been attentive to observe and do the will of the great King Alpha. Now, therefore, watchmen of Zion, suffer not this to be the case through any neglect on your part, but cry against prejudice and all other evil influences calculated to corrupt the Army of Light, for to you it is entrusted to watch over the army, and that you might thereby be able on the general review day to present it to the King pure and unspotted, without wrinkle or blemish or any such thing, for the kingdoms of this world are to become the kingdoms of our King, and he is to reign over them, all which it is decreed by our King that it shall be so. But before this can be the case, they must first be subdued by the Army of Light, and brought into subjection to the will of the King. Now, in order that the Army of Light may accomplish this very great work, it is necessary that it should be in proper order, being well officered with valiant and true hearted officers, who will see that every war order which the King has issued, is carried out to the letter, and that every regiment is on a proper war footing, which can only be done by their adhering to all the King's commandments, and putting on the whole armor, for Abadon and his combined powers have been and still are greatly engaged and will spare no pains to endeavor to defeat the Army of Light in the last great battle that is to be fought, for very great and momentous will be the result of this last great battle. Abadon, Sin and Death knowing this, are therefore making great preparation, for they well know that if they lose this battle, they lose their all; and that their kingdom will be thenceforth ruined forever, which undoubtedly will be the case, for it matters not what pains he may take to prevent it, yet nevertheless the Army of Light being led unto battle by the great and almighty Comforter, with his many other brave and competent officers, it must and will surely prevail. Now the time is uncertain when this very great engagement will take place, in which every division and every regiment in the whole united Army of Light in the vast terrestrial country will be called into action. As correspondingly will be the whole of Abadon's forces, therefore it will be the greatest battle that has yet been fought in the terrestrial country, and the results will be equally great. 
                  And now, kind reader, having treated somewhat extensively on the division of the Army of Light, occupying the United States, and of its past and present condition, and also taken some notice of the Army of Darkness occupying the same, and endeavored to show what at present is likely to be one of the greatest hindrances to the prosperity of the Army of Light, occupying this division, and having also endeavored to call the attention of the watchmen and other officers thereof, to the propriety and great necessity of removing prejudice, ill will, and all other evils from this branch of the service, in order that on the day of battle, they may be able to stand against the common foe, and to gain a complete victory over all the powers of the enemy; and having now therefore finished individualizing the various divisions of the Army of Light, occupying all the terrestrial country, and the different regiments comprising the same; and where I may have omitted describing any particular regiment, I hope I will be excused by the members thereof, as it is not my intention to wilfully slight any particular regiment. But I have dwelt more fully on those regiments that are most popular and most extensive; but to give the full history of any one regiment, even if we had talent and ability so to do, would consume much more time and space than we have at present at our disposal, therefore we presume we will be excused by our liberal readers from giving more than a sketch or an outline, of the history of those of whom we have spoken, and be allowed to proceed in our description of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness, as they now stand while occupying the terrestrial land, previous to the last great and notable battle, and their final removal after the war, from this to other quarters; for as we have before hinted, the King of Light, after the war, intends suitably to reward each of his soldiers who have well fought, and thereafter, to remove them to the bounty land, where he has prepared for them everlasting habitations, and in addition thereto, every thing necessary for their comfort and happiness, even more than he at first did for their fore-parents. 
                  And also the Army of Darkness, which is composed of rebels and traitors, who took up arms on the side of Abadon, against their rightful sovereign, the King of Light; therefore after they have been court martialled and convicted of high treason, he will appoint them to the punishment due to their crime, they having infinitely transgressed, therefore their punishment will be accordingly; but to return to a description of the present condition of the two kingdoms and their armies, we will now proceed. 
                
             
             
                
               PART FOURTH. 
               Now the Kingdom of Light, notwithstanding the many severe attacks it has received from all the combined powers of darkness, yet it is at this time nevertheless in a flourishing and prosperous condition; for although it is true that there are many soldiers in the various regiments of the Army of Light, that are not up to the standard of what they should be, yet there are still enough left, that are valiant and true, to ably and successfully defend the great and glorious Kingdom of Light, against all the onsets of its enemies; therefore in all of the aforesaid different districts of the terrestrial land, the various divisions of the army occupying them, are and have been, fighting many successful battles, and many regiments of the Army of Darkness have suffered severe defeats at their hands; amongst those who have suffered the most 
                     severly
                     severely
                  , are the Pagan, the Papist, and the Mahommedan regiments, and although they are not entirely extinct, they are at this time very weak to what they once were, and it is believed that erelong, they will be entirely destroyed. For so has the Comforter, the great commander in chief of all the Armies of Light, determined, and has given orders to that effect to his subordinate officers, who will undoubtedly carry out this order given to them by their great commander in chief, whom both they and their privates love to honor and obey. So that the various regiments whose ranks are full, are continually engaging the enemy in all his different regiments in every district, and are more or less successful in slaying, wounding, and taking captives from the enemy's ranks, so that his army in many districts is now greatly demoralized, and that many of his soldiers are continually deserting from his ranks, and making their way to the Army of Light, and coming within its lines; all of whom give a very lamentable description of the present state of Abadon's army, stating that it is in lack of all necessary supplies, and that they have not even a sufficiency of hard tack or water to support life, and that they never have full rations, and that they are generally naked and barefooted, not being in possession of the material of which gospel shoes are made, which is in such great abundance in the Army of Light, as is also every other necessary comfort; for which cause many, who becoming aware of this fact, desert Abadon's army and come to that of King Alpha's; and many others who have not yet come to the Army of Light, are not satisfied in the Army of Darkness, in which they are, and intend at some future period to leave it; but they are at present, so blind-folded by Abadon, and allured by the tyrant Sin, that although he is a tyrant, they so love him, that they are content to remain still longer in his service, and are thereby subject to Death, whom they do not love, notwithstanding that he is Abadon's paymaster; but his wages are so poor that none has ever been known to live thereon, for all who continue in his service, in process of time perish through want. 
               Now King Alpha's watchmen who stand on the wall do not fail to proclaim these things in the hearing of Abadon's army, by the loud sound of the gospel trumpet; for its sound is so exceedingly loud, that it can be distinctly heard, at the vast distance that Babylon stands from the city of Zion, so that the soldiers of Darkness, who still remain in Abadon's army, and thereby die, are without an excuse, as they are worthy of death, seeing they might by leaving Abadon's army have life. 
               But as there are some who love the Kingdom of Darkness, rather than that of Light, therefore they will not come to the Kingdom of Light and live; 
                     chosing
                     choosing
                   rather to remain main in the Kingdom of Darkness, though being assured that thereby, they will surely die eternally; so that such are not to be pitied, as they bring evil on themselves by not taking warning by the watchmen of Zion, many of whom faithfully performed their duty according to their king's direction, and by their so doing, the Kingdom of Light, which was at first but limited in its extent, its numbers now extend to earth's remotest bound; and the number of its inhabitants no man can number, for it has this difference from other kingdoms, that they who once become inhabitants thereof, and do not of their own accord, renounce their allegiance to the King of Light, they always will remain while eternity lasts, to be inhabitants of the same; for this kingdom which is began in the terrestrial country, is to be extended into the celestial country, which is of endless duration, but the terrestrial is limited in its duration; therefore when the time shall have fully come for the great and almighty King of Light to destroy the terrestrial country, which he has made by his almighty power, those of his subjects who still remain in the terrestrial country, will he remove to the celestial country, as he has done all his faithful servants who have preceded them in all ages, so that when all that have been, now are, and shall be subjects of the King of Light in the terrestrial country, shall by him, be gathered together in the celestial country, they will constitute an innumerable company. 
               Now the portion of the inhabitants of the kingdom that it is supposed will be the most numerous of all others in the Kingdom of Light, are what is termed the Light infantry, being so called on the account of the smallness of their power, and their inability through weakness to perform any of the hard or heavier part of the warfare; but the thing wherein they have the especial favor of the King of Light, consists in their never having at any time, committed any actual transgression to the laws of the king, so that though they have not through inability done anything to establish the kingdom, their not having ever done anything to oppose it, places them on an even footing with others who are now in his service, but was first in the service of Abadon. Now as the Light infantry are more numerous than any other, and all belong to the Kingdom of Light, having been purchased by King Alpha's own blood, and are therefore permitted in the celestial country to always behold the face of his Father, and pay their obedience to him and with all the rest of the united host, join to sing his praise, so that now with the various branches of the Army of Light, the Light infantry and all others, when they shall be assembled for general review, will constitute a greater number than has ever been seen by mortal man; so that therefore it is plain that the Kingdom of Light, since its rise, has made great progress, and so will continue to do until the war shall have finally come to a close, notwithstanding the great efforts the Army of Darkness has in time past made, and still continues to make, to prevent the same; for in the various engagements that have been and are being made, the Army of Darkness has been defeated with great loss, while the Army of Light has steadily gained ground, and now occupies a vast amount of territory that was once in possession of Abadon, whose kingdom in those places has been torn down and destroyed, and King Alpha's built up and established on the ruins thereof; all of which are preparatory to the final grand rout of the enemy, who is also busily employed in making preparation for the last great struggle, in which all the artillery of Hades will be brought to bear and will be levelled at the Army of Light. And it is due to the powers of darkness, to admit that this heavy artillery of theirs is no mean power, but is so strong and so skillfully handled by those under command of Abadon's principalities and powers, that nothing less than power divine which is infinite, is able to withstand them when they are put fairly in operation, hence, the great necessity of the soldiers of Light being armed with the whole armor, that thereby they may be able to stand against all the combined powers of darkness; having done all to stand, which signifies that having put on the whole armor, and become perfect in drill; for truly the soldiers of Light are not on a perfect war footing, sufficient to insure victory when coming in contact with all the combined forces of Abadon, Sin, and Death, unless they have on the whole armor and are perfect in drill, for death is the last enemy that is to be conquered, and it is impossible to conquer him unless Abadon and Sin are first conquered; but when they have been first conquered, then there is an easy conquest over death and the grave, and all their frightful powers. 
               Now the grave has with him an army of corruption and worms, which all but those who are perfect in drill, and have on the whole armor, dread the very thoughts of, but they do not at all frighten those valiant and war-like soldiers who are equipped as above stated; therefore it is needful that every soldier should be thus armed and equipped, as all have got to come in contact with the same grand enemy, and as it is so very uncertain when the grand contest will take place, therefore it behoves every soldier to be on his guard and be ready at a moment's warning. This the king has left on record, that his servants should always be attentive to do; and the watchmen of the various regiments did not fail to remind them that it is their king's will they should so do. Now we do not deem it needful to individualize the various districts and divisions of the armies of Darkness and their different regiments, as we have previously named them with but few exceptions, amongst those not named are some of recent date, viz: the Mormon regiment, the Unitarian, and the Universalist regiments, all of which profess to be true regiments of Light; but as they do not agree with what is the generally received view of the will of the King of Light, as set forth in his statute book, therefore they are not acknowledged by the other regiments as belonging to the true Army of Light; besides these last, is also the Calvinistic regiment, which is made up of other various regiments, but chiefly the Baptist regiment. 
               And now having named these 
                     regments
                     regiments
                  , it will be needful in a brief manner to describe their character, beginning at the Unitarian, they do not believe in the Son of the King of Light, as being co equal, co-essential, and co-eternal with his Father, as his statute book declares him to be, neither do they believe that it is only through the merit of his Son, that men can obtain the forgiveness of their sins and receive his favor, but that it is through their own good works alone that they can inherit the kingdom the King has prepared for them that love him and keep his commandments, and they also go so far as to say that King Alpha is nothing more than a mere man, which is offering a gross insult to the great and almighty King of Light, who in company with this Son created all things that were created, both visible and invisible, including the earth and all therein, and without him there was nothing made that was made. This being so recorded in the king's own book, it should be plain to any well discerning mind, having free access thereto, that to compare his feeble creature man who is a finite being, to himself who is infinite in all his attributes, is offering a great insult to the King of Light, so that in our opinion a regiment founded on the principle above stated, can never be recognized as a true regiment of Light, and therefore does not help on with the progress of the Kingdom of Light. But if his word is to be relied on, is in direct opposition thereto, and rather helping to strengthen the Kingdom of Darkness, for nothing that is contrary to the laws of the King of Light can do otherwise. 
               Abadon knowing this, therefore organized this false regiment to deceive men, who, supposing it to be right, have joined it, and been thereby, instead of supporting the Kingdom of Light, as they profess to do, they support the Kingdom of Darkness, and are in effect warring against the Kingdom of Light, being incited thereto by Mr. Untruth, Abadon's chief orator. 
               The Mormon regiment is one of recent date, and was formed by one Joe Smith, who professed to be a prophet, and to have received a revelation immediately from the King of Light himself, which revelation differed materially from any that is now known, or has, from the best authority, ever been known to be the revealed will of the King, as has from time immemorial been given to the general Army of Light, which it is not reasonable to suppose the great and good King of Light would ever have left his whole army in the field so long exposed to the combined attacks of the enemy without letting them know His will concerning them, yet this false pretender professes to have received the only true revealed will of the King of Light, as being made known to his subjects of these latter days, who compose the true Army of Light. One of the precepts taught in this regiment is, that it is agreeable to the will of the King of Light that a man should have a plurality of wives without any limited number, which precept is in direct opposition to what is known to be an established law of the King of Light. Now if this alone was the only evil of which they were chargeable, it would be sufficient to stamp them as not being a true regiment of light. But in addition to this, there are other evils of which they are chargeable, amongst which is, that they reach that they alone are a true regiment of light, and that all others are false, being styled by them as Gentiles, while they assume to themselves the name of Latter-Day Saints. They hold that immersing in water, this ceremony being performed by one of their number, is the new birth, through which it is necessary to pass in order to become adopted into the family of Alpha or the Army of Light. Besides this there are other untrue assertions and precepts which are received and taught amongst them, which are contrary to the known laws of the King of Light, all of which goes to show them to be a false regiment, or in other words, a regiment of darkness in disguise. Now, their headquarters are at present in the western part of the limits of the United States, and as they have been very zealous in endeavoring to increase their number, sending out their recruiting officers into various districts and divisions, they have succeeded in deceiving and gathering many into their ranks, who all generally resort to their headquarters, there to locate and establish themselves; and they are there trained in all the arts and tactics of Mormonism, and should they ever become sufficiently strong in numbers and skill, it is as yet unknown what they may or may not attempt; but it is not reasonable to believe that they will ever do anything favorable to the progress of the Kingdom of Light, which they profess to be their chief object. But their antecedents will not bear out the conclusion that they can or ever will do other than support the Kingdom of Darkness, to which we have every reason to believe they belong, though we believe there are many in their ranks who have been deceived by Abadon through the instrumentality of his orator Untruth, and the recruiting officers of this false regiment, and have joined them under the belief that they were of the true Army of Light, which they falsely declared they were; but those who, having the opportunity to know better and refused the instruction offered to them by Mr. Truth, the King of Light's orator, and the watchmen of Zion, will be the more condemnable when coming to stand before the King to be judged, at which time it will be taken notice of by the King, to what extent this false regiment has withstood his true army and the progress of his kingdom, and they will be rewarded accordingly, each one receiving punishment in accordance to what part he has taken knowingly in opposing the true Army of Light. Now the Universalist regiment is one which also professes to be a true regiment of light, yet they are not so acknowledged by the true Army of Light, and very great reason have they for so doing, for the rules, regulations and precepts cepts kept and taught in this regiment are in direct opposition to those taught in all the true regiments of light; for in this regiment of darkness it is asserted by the leading officers thereof, that all men will in the end fare alike, that they who serve King Alpha and they who serve him not, they who fight in his army in defence of his cause, and they who fight in Abadon's army unto the end of the war against him, will all finally, in process of time, receive at his hands the same reward, with the exception that those who have faithfully served in Abadon's army unto the end of the war will not be rewarded and received by King Alpha into the mansions prepared by him for those who have loved and served him at the same time that they will. But that after those who have been in rebellion against him have suffered punishment for a limited time, they will then finally be released, and be brought to enjoy in the presence of the King of Light the same pleasure, happiness and reward as those who have been his friends and served him faithfully and fought valiantly in his army in the defence of his great and glorious cause unto the end of the war. 
               Now, as absurd and unjust as this doctrine is, there are many who, affecting to believe it, cleave strongly to this Universal regiment, although it is so very plain that the doctrine supported by it is contrary to the laws of the King of Light, as expounded by Messrs. Conscience and Truth, who are the able expounders of his law, as also the watchmen of Zion, as is their duty to do, lift up their warning voice against the absurdity of this false doctrine maintained by the Universalist regiment. The Comforter also himself shows his disapproval of it and its doctrine and doings, as there can be nothing more calculated to prevent the progress of the Kingdom of Light and facilitate that of the Kingdom of Darkness, than to cause men to believe that there will be little or no difference in the end with those who are or have been faithful soldiers in the army of Alpha and those who have been equally faithful ful in the army of Abadon; this knoweth Abadon full well, and for this cause he organized this regiment, for its origin is hard to be found in any other source than Abadon himself, who is the author of all evil, and as like begets like, this also showeth its parentage; for there is nothing more like the nature of Abadon than to make no distinction between good and evil and right and wrong, and rather making the advantage on the side of wrong, and if the doctrine of this regiment was more universally believed, there are few if any of the regiments of darkness which could or would do more for the establishing of the Kingdom of Darkness than this same regiment. But as it is so very plain that it is a regiment of darkness, there are comparatively but few who are deceived and decoyed into its ranks, for there are many who, though belonging themselves to the Kingdom of Darkness, are yet honest enough to admit that there should be a difference in the reward between those who serve Alpha and those who serve Abadon. 
               And now, having briefly described the aforesaid regiments of darkness, which profess to be regiments of light, but are not, we come now to notice the Calvinistic regiment, which also professes to be a regiment of light, but there is reason to believe that it is but little if any behind the aforesaid regiments of darkness in supporting the same cause. Now it is, as we have before said, made out of different other regiments, namely, Baptist, Presbyterian, Whitfieldian Methodists, &c. Its acknowledged founder was one John Calvin, after whom it is still named, who taught that there was a certain number both of men and angels who were from all eternity ordained by the King of Light to be saved and obtain his favors, and another certain number ordained to incur his displeasure and be eternally lost and condemned, and that nothing that either class could or might do, would prevent the same. The number said to be ordained to be saved are termed the elect, and the other number who are said to be ordained dained to be lost are called reprobates. Now the holding forth of this absurd doctrine is calculated more than anything else, to incite to inaction, for if it be true, the case of all is unalterably fixed. It does not matter how they act, it will all be the same in the end, so that there could be nothing as an incentive to action if this theory was true. But as it would impeach the justice of the King of Light and also conflict with his revealed will as made known to men and his army in general, it is not reasonable that this false doctrine should be believed, for if it was true, there would be nothing to induce the soldiers of light to fight and endure hardships as good soldiers, in the hope of reward when the war is ended; for if they would fare just the same if they fought against the King of Light as if they fought for him and his cause, there would be but little cause to fight that they might reign, if they might reign equally as well without fighting at all. 
               Now the belief of this doctrine, is much calculated to demoralize the Army of Light, and unfit them for active service in the field, and those also who are in Abadon's army fighting against the King of Light, have less cause than the servants of King Alpha, to induce them to change from their present position, seeing they will fare equally as well where they are, for the difference between the two is this: that the soldiers of Light are already greatly indebted to their King, for innumerable past favors; even if they never should receive any more at his hands, for as he has heretofore always done them good sufficient to induce them to love and serve him, and even if they did not love him, a principle of honor should induce them to serve him, and also, possibly they might be of the elect number, in which event they would again be greatly rewarded. But the soldiers of Abadon's army, though they cannot look at Abadon as having ever done them any good in the past, yet if the Calvinistic doctrine be true and they are of the reprobation, although they have in the past received many great favors from King Alpha, yet they will by him hereafter be consigned to endless punishment and woe: this manner of teaching and belief is not at all calculated to induce those who are in the service of Abadon to leave it, seeing they will 
                     unconditonally
                     unconditionally
                   in the end be rewarded the same. 
               Now this is the great inconsistency of the Calvinistic doctrine, that it asserts that the rewards and punishments of all are unconditionally and eternally fixed by an unalterable decree of the King of Light, so that none by any acts or doings of their own can make better or worse their future condition. Now it seems a wonder how so many and amongst them some men of intelligence, should receive and endorse such an absurd doctrine, when it is in direct contradiction to the words of the King of Light himself, as left on record in his statute book, which is full of promises and threats, and of them very few that are unconditional, for it seems to be a part of the divine nature of King Alpha to reward every man according to his works, whether they be good or evil. 
               This being an undeniable fact, it would make the Calvinistic regiment one of gross darkness, and calculated to do much more harm than the Universalist regiment, which promises rewards to all, both the deserving and the undeserving, which would be more likely to induce all to endeavor to be deserving, whereas, the Calvinistic regiment holds forth no such inducement, therefore, we consider them one of Abadon's most effective regiments, though fighting for him under false colors, and have thereby blindfolded and deceived many, as it has been in existence a long time. 
               But as we do not propose to enter into a lengthy or full discussion of the doctrine taught, and held to by the Calvinistic regiment, we 
                     therefere
                     therefore
                   recommend all to carefully compare their doctrine with the statutes of King Alpha, and they may easily discover that they do not by any means correspond, which is a fact sufficient to show that they are not a true regiment of Light, and therefore they, with the 
                     aforesatd
                     aforesaid
                   professed regiments of Light, are nevertheless in disguise fighting strongly in defence of the Kingdom of Darkness, under the direction of Abadon and his colleagues, and it is hard to say whether or not these regiments are not at this time, doing more to support the Kingdom of Darkness, than any others now in existence, as there is a better chance for the Army of Light, to attack those regiments of darkness who fight under their true colors, than those who fight in disguise, and are, whilst professing to be friends, the most wilful and bitter enemies. And very many are they, who have been deceived and taken captive, and slain by these powerful regiments of Abadon's, whilst professing to be regiments of Light, but they have nevertheless often been exposed and attacked and put to flight by the true regiments of the Army of Light, who are under the command and are obedient to the orders of their great general and commander, the Comforter, who in every respect is fully calculated to lead the army through to certain victory. So that notwithstanding the various attacks from these, and all the other regiments composing the grand Army of Darkness, still the victorious Army of Light being led on to battle, by so able and competent a leader as the great and almighty Comforter, they cannot fail to conquer, for so it is the will and order of the King of Light that they should do, for it is his intention that all the Army of Darkness shall be fully subdued and brought into subjection, for he has sufficient force and power to do so, and will in due time bring it to bear on all the combined powers of darkness to their utter destruction, for although he now bears with the evil doings of the various regiments of darkness, which we have named, he will not always do so, but when they have been sufficiently warned by the watchmen whom he has sent into all the various districts and divisions of the whole terrestrial country, as ambassadors of peace to negotiate with them and lay down conditions of reconciliation, and they still refuse to be reconciled to him, he will then in justice prepare for a war of extermination, and send forth his armies, both the celestial and terrestrial, and miserably destroy these rebels who have refused offered mercy, and will not comply with reasonable conditions, and return to him and live; therefore he will consign them to death, the king of terror whom they have become subject to by yielding obedience to Abadon and King Sin. 
               Now in the commencement of this our feeble essay, we endeavored to describe the great and mighty works of the great and almighty King Alpha in forming the earth and all therein, beautifying it for the comfort of his creature man whom he placed therein, and causing it to abound with all necessary goods sufficiently to constitute them happy, intending them always to enjoy it on condition of obedience; we also told the lamentable tale of their disobedience which justly incurred their king's displeasure and brought death on them and all their posterity, so that all must die; yet through the mediation of the great Messiah, all may live again and have eternal life through repentance, though they previously may have been in rebellion against the King of Light, who had done the great things for them which we have named. Now previous to the great war of extermination which we have referred to above, it is recorded there will be a time of great peace brought on by, and through the success of the king's ambassadors, who are sent forth by him for that express purpose, and what they may lack or fail to accomplish by peaceable means, his army will accomplish by the edge of the sword; for there will be a war of subjugation previous to that of extermination, the former the king has decreed shall surely prevail, and in order thereto, has charged his soldiers to put on the whole armor and become perfect in drill; this is expedient that they should do for two grand reasons, first, they will have no weak and unskillful foe to contend with, but principalities and powers, and spiritual wickedness in high places, comprising all the combined powers of darkness led by Abadon himself in person, of whom it is known that he is no mean or second class warrior, but is well skilled in all the arts of infernal warfare, and will as we have elsewhere said on this occasion level all his artillery against the Army of 
                     Lght
                     Light
                  . 
               And also of Abadon it may be said he has had the advantage of nearly six thousand years experience to a certainty, and it is not generally known how much longer. But it is easy to ascertain that this length of time alone is sufficient to have enabled him to become fully acquainted with all the arts and stratagems of war, and he has not neglected to improve the opportunity he has had, so that he is so mighty a foe that it requires almighty power to withstand him and all his combined powers; added to this first great cause why the soldiers of Light should be well armed, drilled, and equipped, in order that they may be fully able to meet their foe, there is secondly, a no less great reason why they should be fully armed, drilled, and equipped, for King Alpha himself, will, previous to this great and decisive battle, come and review the general army. And it is believed that every soldier who has had the opportunity to be well armed and equipped, and has neglected to do so, he will dismiss from the service as being unworthy of filling a place in the grand Army of Light, for the King himself is to lead the army in person in this great battle, and therefore wishes all his soldiers to be fully competent for the work before them; and as to the king himself language would fail to describe his qualifications and ability as a warrior, for truly he is a mighty conqueror, and Abadon is no match for him in anything that is good and great, for infinite and almighty power belongs to King Alpha's almighty Father himself and the Comforter alone, so that it is easy to discover on which side the victory will be when the war is ended, for it has now already began, and there are many skirmishes between the picket guard of the opposing powers of the contending armies; and it is thought that the general engagement will ere long be brought on, from which there will accrue such great and glorious results sults, for it is certain that the victory will be on the side of the King of Light, who will lead his army on to certain victory, for he has never been known to lose a battle and never will; and the results of this war will be the overthrow of the Kingdom of Darkness and the building up of the Kingdom of Light on the ruins thereof. A peace having been thus conquered, it is believed upon good authority that the Army of Light will rest for the space of a thousand years in which time they will receive many marks of kindness from the King of Light. 
               But to dwell somewhat longer on our details of the coming great war, and its equally great and momentous results, for it is easy to discern that when two such great powers meet as the Army of Light and that also of Darkness, led on to battle by such able and skillful leaders as those we have mentioned, there certainly will be great deeds accomplished; for both powers will have on the field a visible and an invisible force of warriors whose courage and willingness to fight cannot be doubted, so that this war will be the greatest that is on record. Now King Alpha on the occasion of this war will ride a white horse, and will go forth conquering and to conquer, and his army of flaming warriors will also do the same; and out of his mouth will go a two-edged sword by which very many has, and will be wounded and slain, and others will be taken prisoners, amongst the latter Abadon himself will be one, for a shining and mighty warrior from the celestial country, will be despatched by King Alpha with a great chain in his hand, wherewith he will bind Abadon, and cast him into the prison Hades, wherein he will be shut up and kept in close confinement for the space of one thousand years, so that he may deceive the nations no more until that time shall have expired; at the same time the King of Light with his army will swallow up the tyrant Death in victory, the Grave will be subdued and silenced forever from boasting, and King Sin will be destroyed, and all of Abadon's prime and subordinate officers, will either be slain by the sword or taken captive, and imprisoned in Hades with Abadon their king. 
               Now the leading rebels being thus conquered and subdued, the regiments of the Army of Darkness will be easily conquered, captured, and slain by the sword of him that sets on the white horse, all of which great things having been accomplished will end the war of conquest or subjugation; then will the Army of Light have rest and return in triumph from the field and receive laurels of victory. Neither my 
                     tougue
                     tongue
                   nor pen is able to describe the unspeakable greatness of the joy of the inhabitants of the Kingdom of Light, when this great victory shall be gained and peace proclaimed throughout the land, and the united army shall be marched into the city of Zion, there to celebrate this great event, for it is recorded in the king's book that after the war is over, the ransomed hosts of the king shall return and come to Zion with songs of everlasting praise and joy, and gladness shall be on their heads, and their sorrow shall be turned into joy. And the city of Zion shall on this occasion be handsomely decorated off in honor of the great victory that has been achieved by the Army of Light, whose valiant soldiers will be received with open arms and glad hearts by the citizens of Zion, who will give them a hearty welcome to all the hospitalities of the city, which abounds with everything that is good; and moreover the king himself will make them a very great banquet and furnish the table with the best the country can afford, and no pains will be spared to make them completely happy, after their toil and the fatigue of war, from which they shall now have rest for a long time and be sumptuously entertained by their king, and receive of his very great bounty, and be highly honored as being his invited guests, and shall set down with him at his table; and he himself will gird himself and serve them and wipe away all tears from their eyes, and they shall no more be fed on hard tack as they were whilst they were encamped on the battle field. 
               And the king it is said on good authority will be more commonly seen than ever before, walking to and fro among them in order to cheer them by his presence and he will give them the reward of merit due for their valor and faithfullness to his glorious cause, and they will moreover be introduced and made acquainted with the many valiant heroes and conquerors who have preceded them and fought their way through to this same blessed place, and with them they will often converse and talk of past events and of the troubles they have met, and the many conflicts they have had with the enemy, and of how they conquered through the help of their king, without which they could never arrived to the enjoyment they will then be in possession of; and it will occupy the most of their time talking of his many past and present favors and acts of kindness which brought them to the enjoyment of all the pleasures of the city of Zion; and loud will be the united army in their praise of the wonderful King of Zion for all the great things he has done for them, and therefore the chief part of their time will be employed in singing his wonderful praise, and talking of his great goodness; neither will they lack instruments of music wherewith to make a joyful sound to his honor, so that when the trumpeters and harpers shall unite together with all the ransomed hosts, such singing and such music has never yet been heard on the earth as will be at that time; for then will be fulfilled the prophecy of ancient Seers who spoke as they were moved and directed by the Comforter, who very well knew before this great battle was fought that he could gain the victory. 
               Therefore he told his servants that they should declare that the time would come, that righteousness should cover the face of the earth, as the waters cover the great deep; when brother shall not say unto brother, know ye the King of Light; but all shall come to know him from the least unto the greatest, and war of all kinds shall cease; insomuch so, that the nations of the earth would learn war no more, and would therefore beat their swords and spears into ploughshares and pruning hooks, having no further need of them as instruments of war, for the time will then come, when the people of the saints of the most high shall possess the kingdom, and the kingdom and the glory of the kingdom, and the power and the dominion shall be given unto them, and they shall possess and enjoy it for the space of a thousand years, without interruption or intermission. Now this space is what is called the Millenium, and it is recorded in the King's book, that the true servants of Light who have died long before, shall at the beginning of it live again, and for that space of time reign with King Alpha, and be priests of him, but the rest of the dead shall not live until the thousand years shall have expired. 
               Now this living and reigning with the King of Light, is termed the first resurrection; and he has said blessed and holy is he that hath part therein; on such the second death will have no power, for there will, after the destruction of the first death, be a second, much more terrible than the first; but he will have no power over the servants of light, who, having conquered the first, are able easily to conquer the second, so that he shall not be able to interrupt their joy and happiness, neither before nor after the thousand years shall have expired. But it will be far otherwise with those who are not the servants of light, for they shall have no part in the first resurrection, and therefore the second death shall have power over them, which he will use to their utter destruction; but the subjects of the Kingdom of Light, which will now be fully established in every division and district throughout all the terrestrial country, shall have peace and joy in all their borders through the great victory gained by and through the great power and skill of their commanding general, the great and almighty Comforter, who led the united army on to certain victory, the fruits of which they will enjoy, as we have endeavored to describe, for the space of time aforesaid. Now it is believed that when this great event shall have come, all the soldiers of light will then be united in one consolidated body, and will not be divided as now in various divisions and regiments, and parties and names shall cease, excepting that of Union, which name and principle will be carried out forever thereafter in the celestial land, for union and love are synonymous terms; and it is said of love that it is the golden chain that binds the happy souls above, and he is an heir of the celestial land that finds his bosom glow with it. Love and union always has and always will exist between the Father, the Son and the Comforter, and as it has and always will exist between these three Persons, so that they are so united as to make the one true Supreme Being, the celestial and the terrestrial armies are and always will remain in union with the King of Light, and this union will be more firmly established and more fully seen and realized during the thousand years referred to above than ever before, for the subjects of the King of Light will have arrived to such a state of perfection in their obedience to him as to give no offence to him in anything; therefore their union will be so complete that things present nor things to come, nor height nor depth nor Abadon and his colleagues, nor his principalities nor powers, nor any creature, shall ever be able to separate these from the love they have to their King through his son. Neither will his love ever cease towards them, so that the knowledge they have of this will greatly increase their joy during all the long space in which they shall have rest from the attacks of the enemy, when they shall enjoy all the good of the land, for every good thing will be in great abundance there at the specified time. And when this thousand years shall have expired, Abadon shall be released from his prison again once more for only a little season, and he will have great wrath; knowing that he has but a short time to stay, he will therefore be very diligent in gathering his armies together that are in the four quarters of the earth (Gog and Magog), the number of whom is as the sand that is on the seashore for multitude. 
                
               Now, kind reader, having briefly and in a weak manner endeavored to describe the foregoing part of the Rise and Progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness in the terrestrial land, I come now, by way of conclusion, to attempt a description of the last great battle between these two great powers, and the great and momentous results that will accrue therefrom, for it will not be a war of subjugation alone, as was the former one, but it will be a war of extermination; and in attempting to give a description of it and its very great results, I feel greatly my incapacity for so wonderful an undertaking, and feeling much the necessity of the aid and guidance of my King in order that I may be able to give a correct and proper description thereof, therefore I do make my humble appeal to Him, that he will graciously condescend to dispatch to my aid the Comforter, which is agreeable to a promise he has left on record. When he was about to enter into contact with Death, previous to his re-ascension to his throne on high, he told his servants that it was expedient for them that he should go away, for said he, If I go not away the Comforter will not come, but if I go away, I will send him, and when he is come, he will teach you all things, and bring things past unto your remembrance. The intelligent reader will agree with me in the great necessity of desiring his aid, especially as he is to take an active part in this great campaign, and is fully acquainted with the plan on which it will be conducted, and knows the certain result thereof; therefore I beseech my very great and glorious King that he will send him to my aid, that I may through his assistance be fully able as a watchman on the walls of Zion, to fully discharge my duty, and give sufficient warning to those over whom I have been appointed to watch. I am well aware that I have thus far been aided by my King, both in speaking and writing, for which I humbly desire to give him all the praise, hoping he will continue to assist me in the completion of this my little essay, and bless it to the good of the present and succeeding generations, when he shall have called me off the wall of our Zion; for being stationed in my watch tower, it is my bounden duty to make observations and take notes of the same, that might be for the furtherance of the great cause which I espouse, and for the benefit of those who may succeed me, like as many other watchmen who have preceded me have done for the benefit of those who were to come after them, and those to whom they could not have access; and as there are many whom I could not possibly by any other means reach, yet I might by this means do so, as there are some who would set down and read matter, and give it consideration, that would not in any other way give any attention thereto, and as by publishing I can reach many more persons, and consequently might be able to do the larger amount of good. This consideration, in my humble opinion, will justify my effort to give this to the public, which, if being approved and accepted, may possibly be handed down to succeeding generations, and whatever good it may do them, if any, it will be done when I am called off the wall, and will have long since ceased to blow the trumpet in Zion. 
             
             
                
               PART FIFTH. 
               And now, kind reader, to return. In pursuing a further description of the progress of the two kingdoms, I will have to be guided by inspiration, as predicted by the servants who spoke and wrote as they were moved by the Comforter; for what I have now to write about are chiefly things that have not yet come to pass, but are recorded in the King's own book; therefore we will have to refer thereto, and be guided by the Comforter. Now there are various opinions in regard to who Gog and Magog are, spiritually, who are to oppose the progress of the Kingdom of Light, whom Abadon, being loosed out of his prison, will go out to deceive, and he will so far succeed in doing it, that he will gather this great host together, who will come up on the breadth of the earth for the purpose of making war with the children of light, and they will compass the beloved city of Zion about. But before we go further in our description of this last great war and its equally great results, we will pause here to give our opinion who Gog and Magog are, and in doing this, we would in the first place say that as this is to be the last battle, which is to determine on which side the final victory will rest forever and ever, and after that there will be no more contest, as this is to be a war of extermination, and which ever side is victorious, will utterly destroy their enemy; after which they will for ever have rest and peace, as there will be no longer a foe with power sufficient to disturb the tranquillity of the victorious army. Now, as Abadon is aware of this, it is reasonable to suppose that he, to insure success, will on this occasion assemble all his available force and bring them upon the battle field. We would also further suppose and believe that we have the evidence of Mr. Truth, the King's orator, in confirmation of our supposition that his force consisteth in all those who were ever subject to him, and so remained until king Death had overtook them, and placed them in such a position that they could not, even if they would, be released therefrom, they having once yielded themselves servants to obey him, his servants they still remain to be, and all those who, if any there be who shall be on the earth at that time, and who may not have been overtaken by death, and have volunteered themselves into his service; for, according to the declaration of Mr. Truth, those whom Abadon, having been loosed from his prison, has gone forth to deceive, and having accomplished that for which he went forth, being his subjects, and being so far deceived by him as to attempt, under his lead, the overthrow of the Kingdom of Light, are his to obey, and they being styled the nations that are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, the number of whom are as the sand that is on the seashore for multitude. Now, before going on to describe what he will attempt with this vast multitude, we will pause to give our opinion why they are called Gog and Magog. In the absence of any better information, or anything more authentic, we consider that it probably refers to those who rebelled against Alpha and adhered to Abadon in the antediluvian world and the patriarchal ages, and those who lived under the Mosaical dispensation and kept not the law of King Alpha, who all may possibly be called Gog, and those who, under the much greater light of the gospel, have had unspeakably great opportunities nities and inducements to return and become reconciled to the King of Light, and thereby receive his pardon and live, but they, instead of so doing, have refused repeatedly offered mercy, and have cleaved steadfastly to Abadon and his vile cause, preferring rather to continue in his service than to renounce it and come into the glorious service of Alpha. These may be termed Magog, or it may be those who have once been pardoned by the great King Alpha, and received into his favor and afterwards deserted from his cause and joined Abadon's army to fight against their rightful sovereign, and those who have been from their youth in the service of Abadon and remain still to be, they may be termed Gog, and the former may be termed Magog, being twofold more, or we might say sevenfold more, the enemies to the King of Light, and friends to the King of Darkness than those who have never professed to be the servants of light. 
               Now having given our views why the term is used, viz: Gog and Magog, who are to make up Abadon's army and come up to oppose the Army of Light, we also include with them those who with Abadon first rebelled in the celestial land against King Alpha, and caused the first war in which Abadon and all of those who took part with him in the rebellion were conquered and expelled from the celestial country, and driven into Hades; and inasmuch as Abadon himself who was so long held a prisoner of war, shall now be loosened from confinement, it is reasonable to suppose, that those who associated with him in the rebellion shall also be loosened, and being so they will no doubt take an active part with Gog and Magog in favor of Abadon in this last great contest, the result of which will so deeply concern them; and now having as before said, given our opinion on whom Gog and Magog are, we return to notice this great war and its results. Now the city of Zion which is termed the beloved city, and the camp of the soldiers of light, for a long time will have had rest from all their enemies around, and consequently will be in the most prosperous condition, the presence of the King of Light himself being always with them, and he will abundantly supply them with all things necessary to make them completely happy; and they having peace for so long a time on all their borders, it might reasonably be supposed that they would not be in a prepared state for an attack from so numerous and powerful a foe, but this will not be the case by no means, for he that watches over and keeps Zion never slumbers nor sleeps, therefore the very great force that Abadon will bring into the field will be defeated and repulsed. 
               Now thus as we shall briefly describe, is the manner that Abadon will attempt the capture of the great city of Zion, and the subduing of the Army of Light; he will as before said, having first deceived them, bring Gog and Magog together from the four quarters of the earth, their number being so great that they will come up on the breadth of the earth; this would seem to show very conclusively that those who will come up on the earth, must first be under the earth, or they could not come up on it; this fact is a strong argument in favor of the opinion that they are those who will have been dead, and it is agreed that death does not make any change in the mind of any overtaken by him, therefore as they were at enmity against the King of Light, when they were yet on the earth, and in favor of Abadon, therefore they will take part with him in the war against the Kingdom of Light, and they will encompass the beloved city of Zion about, and the camp of the soldiers of light, who will be in readiness for any attack the enemy might make, being perfect in drill, and equally well armed and equipped; yet nevertheless in this war they will have no need to fight, for the great and almighty King of Light himself will fight this battle for them, and gain a complete and final victory over all of his and their enemies, whom he will destroy by fire, sending great and copious showers thereof from above, which will fall so grievously upon their heads, that this vast company (which will be made up of some out of every district of which we have spoken elsewhere,) will be speedily devoured and destroyed; this being, as before said, a war of extermination, and this being completed, Abadon himself will be cast into the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, where the Beast and the false prophet are, and shall be imprisoned and tormented day and night forever and ever; then will the very great and wonderful King of Light call those who have long slept in the grave, and those also of more recent date from the earth and sea. Death and Hades also shall deliver up the prisoners that are in them; then will the almighty King of Light erect a great white throne, and array himself in dazzling splendor, and majesty, and power, and great glory, and sit thereon and unveil his face, and from the effects of this great display of power and glory, the earth and heavens will flee away and there will be no place found for them; then will the King cause all the dead, small and great, to stand up before him either on a platform erected for that express purpose or be upheld by his almighty power upon the empty air until they are judged by him for the deeds done in the body. 
               Now the greatness of this number it is beyond the power of man to conceive, for it will consist of all who ever were on the earth, and all who ever shall be; and it is believed upon good authority, that the earth would be far too small to hold this vast assembly, hence the necessity for its removal, and a platform erected sufficiently large, to hold the whole bulk of mankind at one and the same time; then will the King draw a division line between his own and Abadon's army, setting his own on his right hand side, and Abadon's on his left, and there will be a vast difference in the appearance of those on his right, and those on his left hand side, for each army will greatly resemble their King, and, as King Alpha is himself altogether lovely, the fairest amongst ten thousand, to his servants he will grant to see him as he is, and to be like him. And the appearance of Abadon being hideous in the extreme, those who have yielded themselves subject to obey him, will also partake of his nature and appearance, which is very repulsive. Now King Alpha having appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness, this time now having come, and all men, great and small, being called by the loud sound of a great trumpet, and now being assembled for the purpose of his so doing, he will open the books, and they all shall by him be judged out of the things that are written therein, every man according to his works. Now the books out of which they are to be judged may be termed the Book of Time, in connection with that of eternity, which will now for the first time be opened and revealed to all men. In them will be contained all the great things he has done for men, and what he will further do for them in eternity, according to their works; also, the Book of Nature, showing how systematically and wisely all things have been arranged and put in proper order for the comfort and good of his creature man, and that the only disarrangement has been done by man's own acts. And the book of his remembrance will also be open and read, in which will be written all the deeds and actions of all men, whether they be good or bad, and they will all be judged and rewarded accordingly. In addition to this, lastly, but not least, will be opened the Book of Life, which may also be called the general roll, for it will contain the names of every true soldier of Light, and all who are the subjects of the Kingdom of Light. This book may also be termed the roll of honor, for all those whose names are found written therein will be acquitted and cleared of all blame, and be approved by the King of Light. Now these books will be free from all errors, for it is impossible for King Alpha, who keeps them, to make any mistake; and as there are such very great and momentous results depending on what is contained in those wonderful books that will so deeply concern all mankind, it might not be amiss to give an opinion more fully of what they contain. First, the Book of Time, which is very large and contains an indescribable amount of matter far exceeding any record ever kept by men, or even seen by mortal man, save by few exceptions, yet it is only the preface or frontispiece, or at most an introduction to the great Book of Eternity, which is without bounds. Now the Book of Time contains the correct date of every occurrence that has taken place since the King said let there be light and there was light, and beginning with the first man, the date of every act done and word said, good or bad, of all men, even to the last man that shall be born on the earth, is written therein; moreover, the many great things that the King has done for man, especially the work of creation and redemption and preservation, and all the incidents connected therewith, are particularly noted and dated therein, and to read the date of all that the King himself has done, and all the deeds and actions of all the children of men from the beginning of time to the end thereof, will be a deed worthy of the King of Light himself; and in the opinion of the writer, the Book of Time is the one seen and spoken of by John, that was sealed with seven seals, and that no man could open the book and unloose the seven seals thereof, neither look thereon but King Alpha himself, who will on the day and occasion spoken of, do so, and the reading of the date of all the actions of all men will go far towards helping to condemn or acquit them, as the case may be. Now it is believed that time will only last seven thousand years, corresponding with the seven seals of the book which none but the King of Light could loose and unravel and reveal all things contained therein. 
               The Book of Time may also be said to be a daybook, in which a correct and exact account of all the work done by all men is carefully kept, whether it be good or bad, and this account is carried forward into the Book of Eternity, which is the cash book, and in which a settlement will be made with every man according as his account stands in the Book of Time, and he will be rewarded accordingly; and the Book of Time will then be exhausted in the Book of Eternity, which is the King's bank book, and promises to pay on demand to all who are bearers of any order from the Book of Time. These orders will be duly attended to, and a check given to all those worthy of reward, on the King's treasury, or the great bank above; and in the Book of Eternity will be set down to their everlasting joy and happiness, or to their everlasting shame and confusion. Happy will they be who have a check or an order from the Book of Time to be handed over to the Book of Eternity, to be accepted and cashed in eternity. This great book will contain mysteries that cannot be revealed in Time: 3d, we now come to notice the Book of Nature, which contains the wise and good laws which the King of Light ordained for the government of the universe, and which it would have been wise for all to be governed by. 
               Now in the beginning when King Alpha created all things in nature, he pronounced them good and agreeable thereto; he ordained a perfect law by which they should be governed. This law by all his other creatures on earth has been better kept than by man, who very early as we have noticed in the foregoing part of this work, broke this perfect law by transgressing the commandment of the King of Light, and by so doing lost that good and perfect nature in which he was created; for he was created to be a partaker of the divine nature of the King of Light himself, but losing that nature through disobedience to the King of Light, and obedience to the King of Darkness, he thereby became a partaker of the sinful nature of the King of Darkness, having yielded himself subject to obey him; and from this sinful nature there was no deliverance for him only through the merits of King Alpha whom they had offended. But as we have previously treated largely on this interesting subject we need not here particularize, our object being only to show, that the law of nature was perfect and good, and all things by that law worked together for the good of man only where sin prevented; and had not he transgressed many things by the law of nature, would have worked very different from what they did: how they did and how they might have done will be contained in the Book of Nature. 
               Now the laws of nature extend not only to the earth and all that is contained thereon, but also to the innumerable heavenly bodies that are called stars; these vast bodies of light about which so little is yet known by man, they also are governed by the laws of nature, and are each obedient thereto. Many of them are larger than the earth, and for aught that is known to man, may be worlds, inhabited with intelligent beings in no wise inferior to man. The full history of those heavenly bodies, together with that of all they contain, as well as of the earth are written in the Book of Nature, and may be read in the day of judgment by the great King of Light, in vindication of his justice in all his acts and doings to all his creatures, and in condemnation of all them who have transgressed his righteous laws, and have not in due time repented. Now the vast amount of matter contained in this great and wonderful book, is beyond the wisdom and comprehension of men; but in the last great day of account there will be more light given than now, and it is reasonable to suppose that the servants of the King of Light, so far as it might go to constitute them more happy after the day of judgment, will have a perfect knowledge of many of those very deep and mysterious things that are now hidden from their view; and if it will be more conducive to their greater happiness or enjoyment in eternity to be in possession of things that are now invisible, whether it be kingdoms or worlds, we have sufficient cause to believe it will be given to them, from the authority of the king's own promise to his soldiers in the field, for he has said, "He that overcometh shall inherit all things;" and when the great Book of Nature is read through, they who hear it will have a clearer knowledge of what all things are, than they now have. 
                
               And now, intelligent reader, having briefly noticed the three preceding great books, we come now to notice fourthly, the Book of Rememberance which contains a full, minute, correct, and precise account of all the words, deeds, and actions of all men, both good and bad, from the beginning of time to the ending of the same; the reading of this book will bring to light many things that had been long forgotten, whilst the bringing of them to light, will give great joy and gladness to some; to others they will give shame and confusion of face, consequently there will be great rejoicing on the one hand, whilst there is great lamentation on the other, for there will be no lack of witnesses to prove the innocence of the one, nor the guilt of the other, for if need be, both things animate and things inanimate will appear as witnesses for the King of Light, also the king himself, being omnipresent and unlimited in wisdom and power, therefore seeing and knowing all things, will be a swift witness against all the transgressors, and will have written in his book all the words, deeds, and actions of every individual, and the time and place when those deeds and actions occurred, and from the amount of matter that the doing of one individual would contain, who though he may not have lived more than three score years and ten, yet it will amount to a vast heap of matter; and as those who lived in the days before the flood, when man lived to the extreme age of nine hundred years, how very large will be the account of all the words, deeds, and actions of each such individual, and when they are all added up together with that of all others of succeeding generations, which will comprise in number many worlds, what a very great and tremendous account will necessarily be contained in this the King's great Book of Remembrance, which is also called the Book of Conscience; and on the day appointed when it shall be read by him, great and wonderful will be the revelations that shall then be made, and all the hidden things of darkness shall be brought to light, and things that have been kept hidden from the foundation of the earth, will then be made manifest both of the good and bad, for the actions and doings of all are contained therein; and what the subjects of the Kingdom of Light have done in the defence and support of their king and his most glorious cause, will be read in the presence of this vast assemblage of men and angels, to their honor and to their great joy and comfort, and they according to the merit of their deeds and actions on the field of battle, will be appointed by the king to honorable positions at his right hand. 
               And the subjects of the King of Darkness also, who rebelled against the King of Light, and yielded themselves subject to the King of Darkness and fought in the defence of his vile cause, what they did to and against the soldiers of light, the King will consider it as having been done to and against himself, and having written it down in his Book of Remembrance against them, will read it to their dishonor, and shame, and utter confusion of face, in the presence of his Father and all the shining hosts who have been faithful and true to him in the celestial land, and in the presence of all his subjects and soldiers who had fought his battles in the terrestrial country; these rebels will then be accordingly set, as the merit of their crime shall require, in dishonorable positions at his left hand side, there to await the sentence he will pronounce against them, after he has read the fifth and last great book, which is the Book of Life. 
               Now the Book of Life to which we have come now, fifthly, and last but not least, to notice, may be considered as we have before said, the roll of honor, for none but the true soldiers of light will have their names written therein, and the date when they enlisted in the Army of Light, and the place, when and where, and the various battles and engagements in which they have been in and taken a part, and the length of time they have been in the service; and how under the various trying and severe circumstances they were in, they conducted themselves whilst being on the field of battle, and how under great inducements they would not desert the service of their king, and how that at any time when they were found negligent in their duties as soldiers of light, they quickly made supplication to their king for pardon, and after receiving it, were more zealous in his service than ever before, and continuing in the army unto the end of the war, and having received a certificate of their king's favor, and having not lost it, but kept it until that especial time, all these things together with their names being found written therein in the Book of Life, the King will read it to the great joy of the soldiers of light individually, and to the general and united army collectively. Now when the King reads the Book of Life, he will turn his face towards his army on his right hand side, and beginning with the first man, Adam, who though he transgressed, yet we suppose that he sincerely repented and was forgiven, and therefore will come first on the list when the general roll is called; and as the king from his great white throne shall with a voice louder than thunder, call each man's name in his turn, as each individual hears his name called he will be filled with joy unspeakable and full of glory, of which the whole of each army shall partake, both that which had been always stationed in the celestial country, and that which had been stationed in the terrestrial country; for the calling of their names will be the signal for each to take their position in the ranks that will form in line preparatory to their taking their march to the great gold paved city, the New Jerusalem, of which we propose to speak more fully hereafter; and as above said, each as he is called will take his place in regular succession, coming down from Adam the first to Abel who was the first to fall in the service of the King, and Enoch, that great veteran in the Army of Light, who was three hundred years in active service, and so faithfully did he discharge his duty that the king was so well pleased with him, that he gave him a passport into his presence without his having to pass through the gate of death, a favor which was only granted to one other, namely, Elijah, a very valiant soldier in the Army of Light, who lived many years after him, whose great exploits are recorded in the king's book on earth to which we now have access, and whatever other ones who were soldiers of light before the flood, including Noah, that great and mighty warrior, they will be in the front ranks, being first called; after them will come those who next succeed them in the Army of Light, prominent amongst whom will be Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who each formerly held high and honorable positions in the Army of Light, and faithfully did these valiant soldiers perform the duties that were committed to their trust, and will therefore receive great honor and applause from their fellow soldiers as their names are called by the king. 
               Next to them in succession will be called those who were organized and fought under the Mosaical dispensation, which may be termed the Israelitish division, which was joined by some who were not of the same descent. Now this division gave to the world and to the Army of Light some, or we might say many of the most valiant soldiers that ever fought on a battle field; their names are too numerous to mention now, but the king himself will make honorable mention of them when he reads their names in the Book of Life; after them will be called the innumerable company, who under the Gospel dispensation fought so valiantly, many of whom suffered, bled, and died, in the Christian division which now comprises many effective regiments; this division too will contain very many of the most heroic and valiant soldiers that ever fought on a battle field, prominent amongst them will be the first twelve chosen ones and Paul. But time would fail to tell of all the great and wonderful exploits and mighty deeds done by the soldiers of this division, but for all their doings they will be fully accredited by their king, who will read from the Book of Life their names, and all the good works they have done, and how they so valiantly acquitted themselves selves like men, for which they will receive great honor from their King, in the presence of his Father and all his shining ones, who will be assembled for the express purpose of doing honor to the victorious Army of Light, and when the last named is called that is found written in the king's Book of Life, he will then say to his victorious army on his right hand side, "Well done ye good and faithful servants, ye have been faithful over a few things, I will make you rulers over many things, enter ye into the joy of your Lord;" but previous to their so doing he will speak of the kindness they have shown to his people, as having been done to himself, and because they had done so, and their names are consequently found in the Book of Life, he will give the word of command for them to take up their march towards the upper regions. Now prior to the order being given for them to take their march, their ranks and files will be formed, and it is said that they each will be many thousand miles in extent, and each soldier on this grand occasion, will be handsomely arrayed in a beautiful uniform which had previously been prepared for the occasion, which will far excel any uniform ever worn by the soldiers of any other army, for upon their heads will be placed a starry crown of dazzling splendor that shall never fade away, and to each will be given long white robes and golden harps and palms of victory; so the Army of Light being thus acquitted and cleared from all blame, they will stand approved and await the order of the King when he himself will give the command, and going before will lead them up to the city of Light; but before this is done he will give judgment against those at his left hand side, whose names are not found written in the Book of Life, who have rebelled against him and served him not, but served Abadon, and was led by him in war against the Kingdom of Light, in the great company of Gog and Magog who having come up on the breadth of the earth which will then be passed away, and they whilst being in the act of fighting against their rightful sovereign and his army, were taken captive and held as prisoners of war. 
               Being arraigned at the bar for high treason, and they also being convicted for that, and many unkind acts done by them to his people, all of which the king will consider as being done to himself; all the books and witnesses going to prove them guilty, therefore the judge will pronounce sentence of condemnation upon them, and will say with a voice more terrific and louder than thunder, "Depart from me ye cursed into the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, prepared for Abadon and his comrades in crime." Then will there be great weeping and lamenting, but all to no avail, as they with shame begin to take their departure, following Abadon, who has deceived them, into the place of punishment and confinement, never more to come out, where they will have all eternity to lament in and to reflect on the consequence of their own neglect, whilst that they were yet in time, and might if they would have then returned to the King of Light and lived; but as the opportunity will then be lost forever, the thoughts of this will greatly intensify their misery, they knowing that they are forever doomed to endure the excruciating pains of Hades, as the war of extermination having then been fully carried out by the King of Light, they will know that there is no more hope for them; the knowledge of this will cause great weeping, and lamenting, and gnashing of teeth, and they will curse the day wherein they were born. 
               Now thus it will be with the transgressors of the laws of the King of Light. Reader, may it be your happy lot and mine, to take timely warning, and by keeping the commandments of King Alpha, to thereby escape the dreadful punishment that awaits the transgressors. But now we will return to the more pleasing theme of the very different situation of the soldiers of light; we left them arrayed in dazzling splendor, standing in their ranks with their faces towards Jerusalem, awaiting the word of command to take up their march to that great and glorious city. Now previous to their taking their march there, we pause to make some brief remarks descriptive of this very great and wonderful city, whose perfection is worthy of the great architect, who is the King of Light himself, and who out of his great love and mercy, and in consideration of what his soldiers had borne and suffered for his sake, he therefore designed and built for them this great and glorious city, wherein they might take rest after the labor and fatigue of war. Now thus is the manner of its formation: it is built on twelve foundations which support the walls thereof, and on these foundations is inscribed the name of the twelve first ambassadors of peace, who received their first instruction and commission from the king in person, in the days of his sojourn in the terrestrial land, and who accompanied him on his tours through and amongst his subjects, and were set apart by him as his chosen witnesses, and faithfully did they bear witness of him after his departure from the terrestrial country, advocating his cause with such great success, that to their instrumentality is attributed the establishing of the Kingdom of Light under the Gospel Dispensation on the earth; therefore are they honored with having their names inscribed on the foundation of the walls of the city that is to be the everlasting home of those who are saved by that gospel, which they after Alpha were first to preach, and on this firm foundation the wall is built very great and high, and the foundations of the wall will be garnished with all manner of precious stones, the first jasper, the second-sapphire, the third chalcedony, the fourth an emerald, the fifth sardonyx, the sixth sardius, the seventh chrysalite, the eighth beryl, the ninth a topaz, the tenth a chrysoprasus, the eleventh a jacinth, the twelfth an amethyst. The city lieth four squares, and its length and breadth and height are equal, and it has twelve gates, to each side there are three gates, and the twelve gates are of twelve pearls, every several gate is of one pearl, the walls are of jasper and are very beautiful to look upon, and the streets of the city are of pure gold, and, as it were, as transparent as glass, and the whole city will be very glorious, partaking of the glory of the King, and her light will be like unto a stone most precious, even like unto a jasper stone, as clear as crystal. Now in this city there will be no temple, as in the old Jerusalem, for the almighty Father of Alpha and himself will be the temple of it, and the city shall have no need of the sun, nor of the moon, for the glory of the King of Light shall lighten it; for King Alpha will be the light thereof, and all those who are saved, shall walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory and honor into it, and the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day, for there shall be no night there, and they that enter shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it, and there shall in nowise enter into it anything that defileth nor that worketh abomination or maketh a lie. But they only whose names are written in the King's Book of Life. Also, in the city there will be a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of King Alpha and Omega; in the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, will be the Tree of Life, which will bear twelve manner of fruits, and yielding the fruit every month. The leaves of this tree will be good for the healing of the nations, and there shall be no more curse, but the Throne of the King of Light shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him, and they shall see his face, and his name shall be in their forehead, and there shall be no night there, and they need no candle, neither light of the sun, for the King giveth them light, and they shall reign forever and ever. Now having given a description of this very great and glorious city, according to the most reliable authority, of whose sayings it may rightfully be said they are faithful and true, we return to further notice the innumerable company whose names were found, written in the Book of Life, whom we left arrayed in dazzling splendor, standing in ranks and files ten thousand miles, which will include a number that no man can number, of all nations, people, kindred and tongues, who will then have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of their King, who, on account of his great innocence, is styled the Lamb, their account standing fair on the books of Time, Nature and Remembrance, and also in the Book of Life, from which they will be referred to the great Book of Eternity for a final settlement of all their claims, including all their back pay and bounty money, which was promised them when they first enlisted in the Army of Light, on condition that they would endure to the end, which they having done, the King will award each, in addition to their pay and bounty, a premium as a royal favor, which will far excel anything they could, by any act or doing while in time, merit. But the King will give it as a mark of favor for so faithfully having served in the army whilst in the field. The war now having come to a final close, a complete victory being gained over all their foes, the order will be given for them to take their march up to the city of the New Jerusalem, into which, when they have entered on the burning plain of eternal day, before the dazzling throne they will be honorably discharged from further service, and receive all and more than all that is due to them for their labor. But as we are rather ahead of our story, we must retreat back again. Now the King, after having judged all according to what is written in the books, and having called the last name found written in the Book of Life, he will prepare himself to head the triumphant Army of Light; after giving them great applause, he will address himself to them, saying, Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world, for ye have administered to my necessity in the persons of my poor and afflicted servants, and as ye have continued with me in my temptation, therefore have I appointed unto you a kingdom as my Father has appointed unto me. Then will there be great rejoicing and loud acclamations mations in the grand united Army of Light, and their voice will go up as the voice of one man, in ascribing glory and honor and praise and thanksgiving to the King who liveth forever and ever, and who has redeemed them and washed them from their sins in his own blood, and the sound will be like mighty thundering, saying, The great King omnipotent reigns, let us be glad. 
               The grand army will then prepare to move each division and each regiment in its proper position and place; and it is reasonable to suppose that the Army will then be in one consolidated body, yet those officers who were prominent in organizing regiments or divisions will have the honor of leading those divisions and regiments which they had formerly led on tho field of battle, the whole being led by King Alpha himself in person, accompanied by the Comforter, that great and mighty general who had under Alpha led the Army on from beginning to end, to that success that now crowned the whole, generals Faith and Hope having led the Army as far as it was possible for them to do, and having fully discharged their duty, will resign their commission into the hands of the Comforter on the near side of the river, and will be honorably discharged. But officers Charity and Truth will still keep their position, and will undoubtedly be found in their place, with many of the other officers, as the Army moves towards the city, and will most assuredly enter in with the rest of the Army, and there to remain forever in the company of those whom they had done much to bring thither. But generals Faith and Hope, as it was and is their commission to lead and inspire those who were not yet in possession of all they sought after and desired, this having been accomplished, and they, whom they had been appointed to lead, having come in possession of all they could hope for and all they could desire, these valiant leaders having fully discharged their duty, and been honorably dismissed from further service, they will retire into the land of oblivion, there peaceably to remain until called for, if ever, into active service; for it is not their nature to dwell where there is nothing to hope for or to desire or seek after. But many other valiant leaders of divisions and regiments will greatly rejoice to be found in the ranks of the Army, leading their different commands in this grand march to the city; and we would suppose that the most ancient or veteran division, called the antediluvian, will on this grand occasion be represented by Adam, Abel and Enoch, and the next veteran or patriarchal division by Noah, and perhaps Melchisideck, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and the Mosaical or ceremonial division, by Moses, Aaron and Joshua, assisted by an able corps of well tried and valiant officers, whose names are too numerous to mention, but they are recorded elsewhere, and their names are very conspicuous on the roll of honor, and comprise all of those who lived prior to the ushering in of the gospel dispensation, which dispensation is divided into two divisions, which we before mentioned, namely, the Jewish and the Gentile divisions, the former being represented by Peter and others, and the latter by Paul and many others who succeeded him. Then will follow many other prominent officers who have done valuable service in their day, but their names are too numerous to mention; and coming down to the more modern days, omitting, for lack of time and space, many equally prominent and useful, we would name a John Wesley, a Peter Spencer and a Richard Allen, whom we would expect each to represent the regiments they organized, and whatever ones may be yet to come, who may be very prominent and useful, they will bring up the rear. So the grand terrestrial Army being got in motion, and the musicians playing and discoursing beautifully on the golden harps and whatever other instruments of music may be necessary to make a joyful sound, they will proceed onward and upward until they shall meet the celestial army, headed by the warring angels Gabriel and Michael, coming as a guard of honor to escort them to the upper regions and to welcome them to the celestial country. 
               Now the meeting of these two vast armies, will be joyful in the extreme, there never having been such a meeting before since time commenced, and when they have been introduced by their commanding officers, they will congratulate each other on the success they have each had in the wars in which they have been engaged, and the victory they have each achieved, for the celestial army was first engaged in battle against the powers of darkness in the celestial country, and through the King of Light, succeeded in overcoming them, and casting them out of all the celestial country, and the same powers of darkness was that which afterwards fought so severely against the terrestrial Army of Light, and was likewise overcome by them through the power of the great King of Light, therefore will each of these great armies congratulate each other on the victory they have obtained, and vie with each other in giving praise to the King of Light, for the great victory they have each gained through him, and for all the wonderful work which he has done. 
               Now the celestial army will be able to speak more of the creating power and goodness of the King, and of that song they will sing the loudest and most fully. But the song of redemption, the terrestrial army will be able to sing to perfection, and to talk of it will be their chief delight; and in singing and talking thereof, they will be able to excel the celestial army, as the celestial army was created but not redeemed, therefore they cannot take so active a part in singing and talking thereof, as the terrestrial army; but each will be as completely happy as will be possible for them to be, the celestial escorting the terrestrial up with the loud sound of trumpets and singing of creation, whilst the terrestrial will be as earnestly engaged in singing equally as loud of redemption, and playing on golden harps as upward they go, the whole of both armies keeping time with the music, King Alpha and the Comforter going before on white horses, and when the innumerable host shall arrive in front of the great and glorious city which we have above described, then will be caused a halt, whilst they shall surround it preparatory to their entering into the great city through each of the twelve gates, and when this manuvre is performed, the King will command with a loud voice, saying, open ye the gates that the righteous nation that keeps the true way may enter in, and the porter will say, lift up the gates and be ye lifted up ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in, then will the gates be opened wide, and the king shall enter in leading his triumphant hosts through the gates into the city, which on this occasion will be put in the most splendid order, to receive and do honor to the victorious army of the great King of Light, and every bell in the city will ring welcome in, welcome in, and as they tread the gold paved streets, being led by the king and conducted by the angelic escort on their way to the throne, as they pass by the splendid mansion, which the king will have previously prepared for them, as they view them they will behold such dazzling splendor, as the eyes of mortals had never before witnessed, perfectly agreeing with the words the King had left on record, namely, eye has not seen nor ear heard, neither has it entered into the heart of man to conceive, the things that he has prepared for them that love him and keep his commands; this will be fully realized by the soldiers of light, when they shall have arrived inside of the city, and King Alpha will lead them into the presence of his majestic father, into which when they have arrived, and have been introduced by him to his very great and Majestic Highness, as those he had redeemed from the earth, having purchased their pardon by shedding his blood, then will every knee be bowed, both of the celestial and terrestrial armies, in adoration to the Father, the Son and the Comforter, and after the Son has presented the terrestrial army to his Father to be his forever and forever, and has resigned his charge, and 
                     giv-
                     giving
                  
                   them over into the hands of his Father, as pure and unspotted, not having either spot or wrinkle nor any such thing; and the Father has received them at his hand and proclaimed himself well pleased in what his Son, who is his well beloved, has done. He will then invite him to dismount from the white horse which he rode when he went forth to war against the powers of darkness, and on which he went forth conquering and to conquer. And now, having gained a complete victory over Abadon, Sin and Death, and all their powers, and returned in triumph from the field, leading his victorious army, his Father will invite him to a seat on his throne, to set forever at his right hand, and there to receive the homage that is due from all created beings to him as the rightful heir to the throne. The Comforter will also be invited by the Father to dismount from his white horse, and to take a seat on his throne at his left hand side, in approval of all his actions as the Commander-in-chief of his whole army, which very high and important office he in all things will have fulfilled to the full satisfaction of the almighty Father, who will approve of his whole proceedings accordingly. Then will these three agree as always they had done before, and bear accord in the holy city; for, as we have before said, the Father, Son and Comforter are three in person, yet are they one Supreme Being, in perfect unity in all their actions, and they having now concluded all the necessary ceremonies between them, and agreed in their future course of proceedings in their kingdom and towards their subjects, they will then turn their face to review the grand united army that will by their officers be drawn up and marshaled before the throne on the broad fields of eternal day for that purpose, and they being arrayed in dazzling splendor, and clothed with the garments of salvation which the King had previously prepared for them out of his rich bounty, they will appear to great advantage, and being well drilled as they go through their various evolutions, the Father will express himself well satisfied with their past and present proceedings, and He will look approvingly on the Son and smile, and the Son will smile approvingly on the officers and army, and proclaim to them that they have done well, and that their warfare is now accomplished, and that henceforth they shall rest from all their labor, and that their suffering and toiling is all now over, and that they now shall enter in and possess forever and ever the splendid mansions he has prepared for them in his Father's house, and inherit all things; and sickness and sorrow, pain and death by them will be felt and feared no more, for the former things will be done away; for he that sits upon the throne will proclaim to them that he has made all things new, and when the ransomed host shall hear and realise all these great and glorious things, they will be filled with joy unspeakable and full of glory, and will break forth in loud acclamations of praise and 
                     thinksgivings
                     thanksgivings
                   to him that sets on the throne for ever and ever, and the sound shall be like mighty thundering; when the whole united army with one accord shall sing hallelujah unto Him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. This theme will inspire the innumerable host, whose names are written in the Book of Life, with love to the King of Light, who has thus brought them to reign with him for ever and ever; they will then be escorted, each individual to the mansion prepared for them, for as many as they be yet will there be enough for all; and from the fact that the very streets of the city are pure gold, an idea may be formed of the grandeur and splendor of the mansions that the servants of light shall inhabit therein, where they will have plenty of time to set down and rest, and talk their sufferings over, and to pay and receive calls from all the inhabitants of the city of the New Jerusalem, and to become intimately acquainted with all the great and good who have preceded them, and all who shall come after them; very pleasant and joyful will be the interviews had between them, while they converse freely on past and present experience, and very interesting will be the experience of many who lived in the different ages, from the most ancient antediluvian down to the most modern times, and those who lived in the days before the flood, when men lived over nine hundred years, will undoubtedly have a long and interesting experience to tell; and all will have much to say concerning the great kindness and goodness of the King towards them, and of the great and wonderful works he has wrought. Neither will their intimacy be confined to those who have fought in the terrestrial army in the defence of the Kingdom of Light alone, but it will also extend to those who fought in the celestial army against the powers of darkness, and in favor of the Kingdom of Light. The soldiers of the celestial army will have very great and wonderful things to relate concerning the first great battle fought, how it was commenced, continued and ended, and how it finally terminated in the complete rout and overthrow of the enemy, and a decisive victory in favor of the Kingdom of Light, all of which will be due to the almighty wisdom and power of the great King of Light, and those shining warriors, from Gabriel and Michael down to the least of their number, will delight to ascribe all the glory and praise to the Father, the Son and the Comforter, who sets on the throne, for the victory they have gained. 
               So, attentive reader, it is very evident that there will be great joy in that city, and in addition to all the other great blessings spoken of, will be this also, that loving friends that have long been separated shall there meet again with joy, no more to part, under much more favorable circumstances than when they parted, and what will augment their happiness will be the knowledge that their joy and happiness shall never end, but shall be eternal. 
               Now we have spoken chiefly, heretofore, of the city which, to be able to contain such a vast number of inhabitants, must necessarily be exceeding large; and in addition to it, the King of Light will have created a new heaven and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness, unto which all the subjects of the Kingdom of Light shall always have free access, and shall therefore range the blessed fields of eternal delight; and whatever the new heaven and earth can afford to render them happy, will be at their free disposal. Now this needs no argument to show that if the old heaven and earth, now contains anything that the possession thereof would constitute their inhabitants happy, much more so will the new heaven and earth, which will in everything that is perfect and pure and good far excel the old, and on the new earth there will be no sea, so that if it in size should be no larger than the old earth, it would still contain a much larger solid surface than the present earth for its inhabitants to dwell on and be infinitely happy. Now, on the old earth on which we live, it seems to be the general rule that every sweet is mixed with bitter, and every joy with sorrow, and every pleasure with pain. But it will be quite the reverse with the inhabitants of the new world, for there it will be all sweet and no bitter, all joy and no sorrow, and all pleasure and no pain, for the inhabitants having sown to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting, which will fully repay them for their labor and toil in bringing it to perfection, and all the fruit of this soil will be perfectly delicious, and will grow of its own accord without labor or toil, so that they who are blessed to be inhabitants of that blessed world will have no employment but giving and ascribing praise and glory and honor to their King, who has brought them to inherit it; for the sowing and toiling and laboring to bring this good fruit to perfection, spoken of above, will all have been accomplished previous to their becoming inhabitants of that country, for it was in their power and their privilege whilst they were yet in the terrestrial restrial land to lay up treasures in the new world, where moth does not corrupt nor thieves break through and steal, and they having improved their privilege, will now rest from their labor and reap the fruits thereof forever and ever; their warfare now being over, and they having received their bounty, they will rest forever happy and contented under the reign of King Alpha, whose kingdom will be so firmly established that no power can move it, therefore it shall stand forever, it being founded on the Rock of Ages, which cannot be prevailed against by the powers of darkness, for the Kingdom of Darkness, over which Abadon had reigned so long, being overthrown and Abadon and all his forces finally subdued and brought into subjection, and imprisoned in Hades forever and ever, he will therefore not be able, even if he would, to ever make an attack on the Kingdom of Light again. So that King Alpha will be left in the peaceable and undisturbed possession of all his vast dominion forever and ever, and shall no more be annoyed, and he, because he is worthy, shall forever receive the homage that is due to him from the innumerable hosts who owe their great joy and happiness to his great and worthy name. 
               And now, kind reader, your unworthy servant, the humble author, having briefly and in a feeble manner accomplished the setting forth of the reign of King Alpha and King Abadon, or the Rise and Progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness, I must now conclude and bid you perhaps a final farewell until we meet in the presence of the Judge when the general roll shall be called; when, dear reader, it is his earnest desire that your name and his shall be found written in the Lamb's Book of Life, so that we may be partakers of all the joys of which we have spoken. But ere we part, we would remind you again, that to enjoy those very great and glorious things, we must keep our King's commandments, and to do so, besides loving him with all our heart, we must love our neighbor as ourself, without regard to shade or complexion, or none of these joys can ever be ours, as the King himself has no respect of person, but of action, and will therefore not admit his people to do so, for in the new world there will be nothing but love, and to be fit to inhabit it, this impartial love must first begin here; and what might greatly assist us in our actions towards others is the knowledge of the words left on record by the King of Light, namely, the same measure we measure to others shall be measured to us again, and whatever we do to his people, he will consider done to himself, and will reward us accordingly. 
               And now, attentive reader, having began with Time, when the Army of Light was yet in its infancy, and followed it through its various battles until finally it had fought its last battle and returned in triumph from the field, and received laurels of victory. Also, the Rise and Fall of the Kingdom of Darkness and its shameful, disaster and dreadful overthrow, and the consignment of its members to the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, where the beast and false prophet are and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. And, as above said, hoping this shall never be your or my case, but instead, that we might be among the blessed number that shall be permitted to enter in through the gate into the great city of the New Jerusalem, there to partake of the joys that shall be revealed; and that we may be amongst the invited guests at the marriage supper of the Lamb, which will take place on the eve of Time and the ushering in of Eternity, in the city of the New Jerusalem, at His Father's house, at which time and place every soldier and subject of the Kingdom of Light being invited, will be there to witness and partake of the festivities of that grand occasion. This great feast will be everlasting, and the choice and rich dainties of the table will be such as becomes the grandeur of the occasion and the high position of the only begotten Son of the great and almighty King of Light, and the highly honored bride of his choice, who will with the bridegroom be arrayed in dazzling splendor and garments clean and white, such as eye hath never seen before, and the whole immense assembly will necessarily have on wedding garments, provided by the King, that will be suitable to the occasion, and none will be admitted not having on the wedding garment; and Mr. Truth says, Blessed are those who are invited to this wedding; and we will vouch for the veracity of his word. And that the table will be exceedingly large and the supplies very abundant, we need hardly say, when it is taken into consideration the vastness of the number of the invited guests for whom there will be enough and to spare. As the riches of the King is unlimited, therefore he will be fully able to supply the table with the richest and choicest viands, there being such exceeding large possessions in his hands, from which to collect supplies, and he having such an innumerable host of able and trusty servants to prepare all things necessary for the exceeding grand occasion. The service will be of the choicest and richest materials imaginable, and the dainties of the most rare, costly and best kind; the greatness of the varieties cannot be told, and all prepared to suit the taste of the guest; and there will also be a full supply of new wine, of which he promised his chosen twelve that he would drink with them in his Father's kingdom, including others no doubt besides them; and he also promised that he would gird himself and serve them, and moreover he will wipe all tears away from his people's eyes, and they will be thus fed and feasted, and will have no more sorrow or trouble, but joy, and instead, while eternity lasts, the best of music will be in abundance for evermore. 
                
               And now, dear reader, having finished this our little essay, or work of faith and labor of love, by way of conclusion, and with our best wishes for your temporal and eternal welfare, we bid you a kind and an affectionate farewell, hoping that we will be so happy as to meet in the great city of the New Jerusalem, and be among the invited guests at the marriage supper of the Lamb. So prayeth your humble servant, the author, 
               
                  LORENZO DOW BLACKSON.
                
             
         
       
       
          
             
            A SUPPLEMENT BY THE AUTHOR. 
            AS AN APPENDIX TO THE FOREGOING PART OF HIS ESSAY ON THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF THE KINGDOMS OF LIGHT AND DARKNESS. 
            Courteous reader, in addressing ourself to you again, in addition to what we have already said, it is merely in a brief manner, to give you our views more fully on some topics on which we have previously treated, as you may have readily discovered we have been very limited in our views on some very important matters regarding the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness. This neglect has been partly owing to the lack of time and opportunity; therefore we address you again on some of the leading points. We will commence with the inquiry, Will King Alpha himself personally appear and remain with his subjects on the terrestrial land during the thousand years of peace, in which Abadon and his colleagues and subjects are bound in prison? In answer to that inquiry, our opinion is that he certainly will, and we believe our King's record book will bear us out in this opinion; for as it is written therein, that all of his people shall live and reign with him a thousand years, and the rest of the dead shall not live until the thousand years shall have expired, therefore, if his people, who shall live during the said thousand years, are not in that time to inhabit the earth, as a matter of course the subjects of Abadon all being dead during the same time, they certainly cannot inhabit it, and as Abadon himself will be bound in prison during all that time, it is reasonable to suppose that all of his colleagues and subordinates will likewise be confined with him; to suppose otherwise would be to admit of the earth being uninhabited for the space of a thousand years, or else inhabited only by the confederates of Abadon. Such a belief would be preposterous, and not for a moment to be sanctioned by any intelligent mind; for to admit this would be giving Abadon's army the pre-eminence, and as having vanquished the foe and holding the field in possession; for the earth is the battle field on which all the great and marvelous battles have been and will be fought between the armies of Light and Darkness, and when the victory shall have been gained in favor of the grand Army of Light, then will the victorious hosts encamp upon the ground, it now being made sacred by the many privations and sufferings and conflicts they had endured, while they were battling with the foe under the lead of their much loved Commander-in-chief, and also hallowed by his blood being shed thereon, and that also of many of their fellow soldiers, who all now having gained a complete victory over all their foes and arisen with their King, they, we believe upon good authority, will reign with him a thousand years on the earth, having torn down the Kingdom of Darkness, which had been so strongly established therein, and built the Kingdom of Light on the ruins thereof, and firmly establish the great and beloved city of Zion, and dwelling therein, as well as in the camp. 
            Now the authority we have for believing these things is this: it is left written in the King of Light's record book, that after the thousand years of peace have expired and Abadon shall be loosed from prison for a little season, together with all his army, who, being deceived by him, will be brought again on the field, namely, the earth, from which they had been removed, and so numerous will be their force that they, it seems, will cover the whole breadth of the earth, and encompass the camp of the soldiers of Light about and the beloved city of Zion, but will be able to do the soldiers of Light no further harm, for King Alpha from on high will bring to bear his heavy fiery artillery upon them, which will pour such copious showers of such heavy and effective missiles as will utterly discomfit the Army of Darkness, and cause them and Abadon their leader to gladly retreat into Hades, so utterly despoiled and ruined that they could not, if they would, ever again be able to make the vain attempt to war against the very great and almighty King of Light and his victorious army. 
            Now it is evident from the above that the Army of Light will be quartered on the earth at the time of the attempted attack of the powers of darkness, and will have been so during the preceding thousand years, for if that they shall not have been encamped on the earth, nor the city of Zion, there built, how could Abadon's army, coming up on the breadth of the earth, compass them about; this it is self evident could not be, which will prove conclusively that the saints will inhabit the earth during the time that Abadon is bound in prison, and as all sin will then be removed with him, and his crew from the face of the earth, it is reasonable to suppose that the curse will then also be removed, and the earth will be restored to its first state of sinless perfection with all the inhabitants thereof, whose former corruptible bodies will then have become incorruptible, and mortality will have put on immortality, Death having been swallowed up in victory; and they being now become the children of the resurrection, it would seem there could be no sufficient reason why the King of Light would not dwell personally amongst them, for we have no scripture (that I am aware of,) to show that there will be any greater change than the resurrection of the just, to fit them to behold the face of their king, and dwell in his glorious presence, and in the society and company of saints and angels, and if so we infer that the King of Light will certainly dwell personally amongst them during the said thousand years, as well as in all futurity. But in what way and manner he will reveal himself, it is in my humble opinion, not for us yet to know, but as he seems to have been very intimate with our fore-father Adam, previous to the transgression, it is fair to suppose that he will be equally as intimate with his posterity, when their transgression shall have been removed by the second Adam, and who was, and is much greater than the first, and therefore will gain for his children all, and more than all they lost by the first Adam. And in regard to the earth itself, it too is reasonable to believe will have undergone a very great change, when the curse shall have been removed, and whatever of perfection it may have had in the beginning, calculated to make the inhabitants thereof completely happy, it may then be reasonably expected to have in still greater abundance, seeing there are, or shall be many more to enjoy it, and as the transgression of our fore-parents brought death on man and all our woes, and caused the earth to be cursed for their sakes, which was far from the intention for which it was created, therefore when the curse shall have been entirely removed, it is in our opinion not too much to say that the earth and all it contains, will then be fully restored to all its original perfection, as it was in the days of man's innocence, before he had fallen from the high and holy estate in which he was created. Now we would not presume to certify fully what that state was, as it is a great mystery, how they, being as we suppose, a natural body were capable of being in that state, also immortal; and being immortal, which would in our judgment seem to be of a spiritual essence, partake of the natural things of the earth. But as great a mystery as it is, it seems that they could enjoy, and partake of all the good things of the earth, which things were natural, yet when we come to consider we can perceive that King Alpha himself, after his resurrection appeared to his 
                  disiples
                  disciples
                in the body, and spoke to them of having flesh and bones, and showed them his hands and feet, and told them to feel him by handling him, that they might thereby know that he was present with them in body, and to confirm this, when they had by his intimation, given him a piece of broiled fish and honeycomb, he took it and did eat before them. This now would be a strong argument in favor of the belief, that the bodies of his people though being spiritual after the resurrection, can yet nevertheless, partake and enjoy the good things that will then be on the earth. 
            But in what they will differ from what they now are, we are not yet to know. But this much we can say upon sufficiently good authority, that the earth and all it contains will be as perfect at least if not more so than it was before the fall of man, for he having gained, through the obedience of the second Adam, all that paradisiacal state of happiness that he lost through the disobedience of the first Adam, he will undoubtedly enjoy it equally as well as would Adam if he had kept his first estate. And the earth being then filled with everything that is good and calculated to make its inhabitants completely happy, they will therefore, during the thousand years they shall reign with King Alpha on the earth, partake and enjoy with him all the good things that are therein, without the necessity of laboring and toiling to get what they shall enjoy; their employment being chiefly to ascribe praise and glory and honor and adoration to their King, who has given them these things to enjoy, and who shall now continually dwell amongst them to cheer them by his presence and constitute them completely happy. 
             
            Now it seems expedient that there should at least be one thousand years that the earth and all the inhabitants thereof, and all it contains, should be wholly the Lord's, in which time his Spirit should no more be grieved as it had been during the six thousand years that will have passed, and as one day is with him as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day, and as he made the heavens and the earth in six days, and rested on the seventh, and blessed and hallowed it and set it apart as a Sabbath, so in like manner, after he has labored with his creature man for six thousand years, and been grieved, but having now ended his labor and brought them to a state of perfection, he will rest on the seventh from all his labor, and set it apart and sanctify it as a holy Sabbath, in which his people shall worship him in an acceptable manner, without fear or molestation, for it would seem that he having created the earth and all thereon for his own glory, and then not to have one thousand years time of it to be wholly his, it would appear as though Abadon had gained some advantage which King Alpha, being jealous of his own glory, will not permit, but will dwell and reign with his people on earth for the space of a thousand years, and then having fully accomplished his will on and with the earth, he will then have no further need of its continuance, for there is cause to believe it was only intended from the beginning to be the home of mankind in his probationary state, and not his eternal 
                  adode
                  abode
               ; therefore, when both it and man have fully answered the end of their creation, the old earth will be removed to give place to a new and more perfect one; as man also shall have attained the resurrection of the body, having been by the King created anew a thousand years prior to the dissolution of the old earth, during which time, as we have before stated, Abadon and his subjects and confederates will have been bound in prison, and reserved in chains of darkness until the day and time appointed for them to be judged. He and they will then be loosed for a little season, and suffered to run at large, and it seems from what is left on record, that notwithstanding his many previous battles against the Kingdom of Light, and his defeat in each of them, and his late disastrous overthrow with his whole army, from which they will have been so very recently relieved through the forbearance of the great Conqueror, yet he will not take it as though it was forbearance on the part of King Alpha, but will act as though he had achieved it by his own power and skill, and as if he expected to regain his former position on the terrestrial land, and fortify himself preparatory to his making an attack on the celestial land. He will gather the two grand divisions of his army together, including all his subjects, whom we have before termed Gog and Magog, and will bring them, as before said, up on the breadth of the earth, and encompass the camp of the soldiers of Light and the city of Zion about. Now it is not to be supposed that the great Army of Light under the lead of their proper officers are not able to meet and thwart this vast host of Abadon's army, that they (the Army of Light) will not go out at this time to meet them. But their warfare having long since been accomplished, it will not be the will of their King that they should have any more trouble or conflicts, and as he himself, without the aid of any of his creatures, is much more than a match for Abadon and all his combined forces, and will send copious showers of fire from himself in the celestial land upon them, which shall devour them. This then will put a final end to any more wars between the powers of Light and Darkness, and that they should end in this way, perhaps, is expedient, that Abadon and all his host might be hushed to silence forever thereafter, and not be able to boast of what he or they might have done, if they could have had the opportunity. But he having been liberated and permitted to assemble all his united force without the lack of one individual belonging to his whole army, and allowed to employ all his skill and power, and yet by King Alpha's individual power, so easily overthrown if he should not have been convinced before. This would be sufficient to convince him and all his hosts that the power of King Alpha is infinite, for by the almighty power of King Alpha, both him and his colleagues will have been cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where he and the false Army of Light and their aiders and abettors shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. But the true Army of Light being now disbanded, as there will be no more need of fighting, they will, as before said, be made citizens of the New Jerusalem city and inhabitants of the new heaven and earth forever and ever, which he that sets upon the throne will create for their comfort and enjoyment, as their probationary state will have then expired, and the old heaven and earth, with all the good they ever possessed, will not by King Alpha be thought sufficiently pure and perfect in his sight for the eternal abode of his people, whom he will now greatly delight in and in making them completely happy and situating them in the very grand and splendid mansions he will have prepared for them in the great New Jerusalem city, and putting them in possession of their portion in the new heaven and earth. 
            Now, as the word inherit means to possess, and as it is recorded in the King's book that he that overcomes shall inherit all things, therefore we reasonably conclude that the portion of each soldier in the Army of Light will be very great and extensive, as all the vast dominion of the King of Light will be given to them; and if, as is supposed by many wise men, that the innumerable stars are worlds, many of them in magnitude far superior to the earth we now inhabit, it may be, for aught that we know to the contrary, that to each of his soldiers, as a reward, he may give him a world to reign over, seeing he has fully the ability to do so; and has said that his servants who overcome shall reign with him forever. Now, as great and grand as the idea may seem for a man to be exalted to the high position of having a world in his possession, yet it is not too much for an infinite God to bestow. if it seems good to him so to do on his creature man as an infinite reward for having faithfully served him in the field. But whether it be in the possession of worlds or not that the servants of Light are to be constituted completely happy, it is not given us yet to know, for we now see, according to sacred writ, darkly through a veil, which is the flesh. But nevertheless, this much we can know, whilst yet in our present state, agreeably to our King's own word, if we continue in his service faithfully to the end, we shall in a future state inherit all things, and he will be our Father, and we shall be his children. This, we presume, will be an 
                  iufinite
                  infinite
                reward, and the very hope of it should incite us to duty, no matter how severe it may seem, or hard to do, for we will get the large possessions promised to us, cheap at any price, not excepting our life itself, seeing that if we lose it, we will surely find it again under much greater advantages, to lose it no more forever. Therefore, my fellow-soldiers in the great Army of Light, let us, while in the battle-field, rally to the standard of our King, and fight willingly and manfully under his bloodstained banner. But the hope of reward should not be our chief motive to action, but instead, love to our King and gratitude for past and present favors, for that is what as true soldiers, should constrain us, for we must love out King with all our heart, and our neighbor as ourselves, to be true soldiers, for if we lack this test, the King will not acknowledge us as belonging to his army, for it was one of his most especial commandments, given just previously to his departure to the celestial land, that in addition to loving him with all our heart, we should love our neighbor as ourself, none of course can be excluded from our love on account of the color of their skin, as our King makes no exception, and whatever different opinions or rule or regulation we may have in the organization of our various regiments, in this one point we must agree to be reckoned in the Army of Light if at all, we must love one another, for our King has said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another. To not have it would therefore constitute us none of his, but instead, as belonging to the alien army. If we would not be found in that position when our King comes to make up his jewels, let us observe this and all his other commandments, so that we may be able to meet him with joy when he comes. 
            And, kind reader, having said thus much as a supplement to the foregoing part of this work, it may not be needful for us to continue our remarks further in this direction. But after bidding you again an affectionate farewell, to conclude by adding some original poems, suitable to the occasion, and composed by the author expressly for this work: 
             
               A certain King whose power is great, 
               For his own glory did create 
               A spacious globe, and it did place 
               In what is termed the field of space. 
             
             
               This globe by name he called the earth, 
               Ordaining that it should give birth 
               To creatures formed by his own hand, 
               And placed there to possess the land. 
             
             
               In his own image man he made, 
               As he with his co-workers said, 
               And from his side a rib did take, 
               Of which a woman he did make. 
             
             
               So that they, male and female, were, 
               And unto man the King brought her, 
                
               To be to him a helper meet, 
               And make his happiness complete. 
             
             
               And he them blessed, and gave command 
               To multiply upon the land; 
               And fruitful be upon the earth, 
               Subdue, replenish and give birth. 
             
             
               And have dominion over all, 
               Of birds and beasts, both great and small- 
               And fish, and all on earth that live 
               He over them dominion gave. 
             
             
               And all the herbs and trees and fruit 
               That did their palates please and suit, 
               To them he said should be for food, 
               And he pronounced them very good. 
             
             
               He then a garden very fair 
               In Eden made, and placed them there. 
               And from the ground he caused to grow 
               Trees beautiful and useful too. 
             
             
               And doubtless many flowers were there 
               That were both beautiful and fair, 
               And they might always happy be, 
               There being but one forbidden tree. 
             
             
               Which in the garden's midst was placed, 
               And they commanded not to taste 
               On pain and penalty of death. 
               As they thereby would lose their breath. 
             
             
               This was of knowledge called the tree 
               Of good and evil both we see, 
               And near it stood the Tree of Life, 
               Which was free for this man and wife. 
             
             
             
               Of which they might partake and live, 
               And to their King the honor give, 
               For what to them he did bestow 
               Of all things which on earth did grow. 
             
             
               To them all things were given free, 
               Except the one forbidden Tree, 
               Of which the King to them did say, 
               To eat therefore ye die that day. 
             
             
               This thing would come upon them sure 
               If they partook what this tree bore. 
               But all things else to them was given 
               Of things on earth beneath the heaven. 
             
             
               Yet sad we are to have to tell 
               These two they disobeyed and fell, 
               By taking of the forbidden Tree, 
               They brought themselves to misery. 
             
             
               Now previous to the time when they 
               Did thus transgress and disobey, 
               There was a spirit fell from heaven, 
               Who rebelled, and from thence was driven. 
             
             
               For daring to attempt to fight 
               Against the almighty King of Light, 
               And raising impious war in heaven, 
               Hence he from thence was quickly driven. 
             
             
               With him were many others fell, 
               Who like him also did rebel 
               Against Him who did them all create 
               And placed them in a happy state. 
             
             
               And as no merit was their own, 
               'Twas all through the free gift alone 
                
               Of the great King of Light, who had 
               Them and all other creatures made. 
             
             
               Therefore their sin was very great 
               To oppose Him who did them create 
               And give them all the joys above, 
               They nought should know but Him to love. 
             
             
               But as instead they did rebel, 
               Therefore from happiness they fell, 
               For warring angel Michael went 
               And Gabriel he was also sent 
             
             
               For to oppose these powers of night 
               Who dared against their King to fight. 
               The battle was set in array, 
               The Powers of Darkness lost that day. 
             
             
               Their army it was put to flight 
               And driven from the fields of Light. 
               But yet they were not driven down, 
               But beat back from the battle ground. 
             
             
               And each engagement suffered loss, 
               And all of their vain hopes were crossed. 
               Now orator Truth began the fight 
               Against these boisterous sons of night. 
             
             
               And with a dart their leader wound 
               And threw him flat upon the ground. 
               As he had first broke peace in heaven, 
               Truth said from thence he must be driven. 
             
             
               So thus the battle was began, 
               And Satan strove, but strove in vain, 
               For to retain his place in heaven, 
               But could not, for he down was driven. 
             
             
             
               For on the third day of the fight, 
               Appeared the mighty King of Light, 
               And in a fiery chariot rode 
               Upon the field, and overthrowed 
             
             
               All these dark powers, and bound them to 
               His chariot wheels, that they might know 
               How vain was all their false pretence 
               For to oppose Omnipotence. 
             
             
               He then consigned them down to hell, 
               His thunder-bolts upon them fell. 
               So that a refuge even there 
               Was found from such great wrath severe. 
             
             
               So after they there long had lain 
               Stretched out upon the burning plain, 
               Abadon essayed to raise his head, 
               Though thunder-scared, and thus he said: 
             
             
               Comrades in arms! Arise! arise! 
               Though we are driven from the skies, 
               Let's not be idle even here, 
               What'er we can do, then prepare. 
             
             
               To do with all the speed we can, 
               Though we are on this burning plain, 
               Let's build a castle and there meet. 
               When we have got it all complete, 
             
             
               And counsel take what's best to do, 
               To be avenged on our dread foe 
               Who drove us from the heavenly place, 
               And has against us set his face. 
             
             
               So they concluded not to meet 
               The foe that did them once defeat. 
                
               But did agree, a better plan 
               Would be to attack his creature man. 
             
             
               So therefore Abadon went forth 
               To see if he could find the earth, 
               The place prepared for man to live, 
               Which by his King to him was give. 
             
             
               In finding it he had success, 
               And also on it found the place 
               Where did abide the man and wife 
               Who were so happy then in life. 
             
             
               Them he determined to destroy, 
               And put an end to all their joy, 
               By causing them to thus transgress, 
               And thereby lose their happiness. 
             
             
               So he the woman did assail, 
               And also did on her prevail; 
               She being the weaker of the pair, 
               Abadon therefore attacked her, 
             
             
               And caused her to believe a lie, 
               And said they would not surely die, 
               And eating would make them more wise, 
               And open would be both their eyes, 
             
             
               If they eat of the forbidden tree, 
               Themselves as gods would surely be, 
               And good and evil they would know 
               By eating what on this tree grew. 
             
             
               And that their King himself did know 
               That if they eat, it would be so, 
               And therefore he had them forbid 
               To keep from them this knowledge hid. 
             
             
             
               So when she saw the fruit looked fair 
               That grew upon this tree so rare, 
               Believing that to eat she'd grow 
               So wise that she would all things know. 
             
             
               'Twas then she did put forth her hand 
               And dare to break her God's command, 
               She also gave unto her mate, 
               Who like her fell in the same state. 
             
             
               Thus was King Alpha's law transgressed 
               By those who had by him been placed 
               In that delightful place of rest, 
               And who so greatly he had blessed. 
             
             
               Therefore, as they did thus offend 
               Him who had always been their friend. 
               They were for this from Eden driven 
               Who dared to offend the Prince of Heaven. 
             
             
               And for their sakes was put on earth 
               A curse that thorns it might bring forth, 
               And they were told they surely must 
               As they were dust return to dust. 
             
             
               Our steps we're forced to now make long, 
               As we must soon conclude our song, 
               And many things we must pass by, 
               And not describe them minutely. 
             
             
               So as these two did thus transgress, 
               They did bring Death on all their race, 
               And all thereby must surely die, 
               And also in the dust must lie. 
             
             
               And never more from thence to rise, 
               Unless there was a sacrifice 
                
               For to atone for their great sin, 
               They never could rise up again. 
             
             
               The King therefore in mercy great 
               Prepared to save them from that state, 
               And did prepare a sacrifice 
               That was sufficient to suffice. 
             
             
               As Abadon had in serpent's form 
               Essayed to do them this great harm, 
               Therefore King Alpha to him said, 
               The woman's seed should bruise his head. 
             
             
               And as he had beguiled her, 
               Therefore should be his greatest power 
               To only make her children feel 
               His malice raging at their heel. 
             
             
               So now began to multiply, 
               The race of those who were to die. 
               Two sons were first unto them given, 
               The one served well the King of Heaven. 
             
             
               The elder served him not so well, 
               But did adhere to the king of hell, 
               And because his brother's work was good, 
               His being bad, he shed his blood. 
             
             
               Which brought King Alpha's wrath upon 
               Him, and he cursed him from the ground 
               Which had received his brother's blood, 
               So he therefore a criminal stood. 
             
             
               Pronounced a vagabond on earth, 
               From the King's presence he went forth. 
               His seed increasing in the land, 
               They disobeyed the King's command. 
             
             
               But God gave Eve another son, 
               On whom his blessing came upon, 
               Their offspring seemed to serve the Lord, 
               And to give heed unto his word. 
             
             
             
               Hence there two Kingdoms now were formed, 
               The one for good, the other harm. 
               The one served God, the other not, 
               But seemed his precepts to forget. 
             
             
               Yet they had many daughters fair 
               Which seen and loved by good men were, 
               Who did partake of them for wives. 
               This made a change upon their lives. 
             
             
               So that all flesh became corrupt, 
               And from the earth a cry went up, 
               Which vengeance brought upon the head 
               Of those who from the right had fled. 
             
             
               But there was one who did do right, 
               Noah, who served the King of Light, 
               Therefore found grace in his King's eye, 
               Who did resolve he should not die. 
             
             
               But him and his posterity 
               Their life should be to them a prey, 
               When he all others should destroy, 
               They all the earth should then enjoy. 
             
             
               For on the earth he'd bring a flood, 
               And sweep from thence the foes of God. 
               But in an ark would Noah save 
               Upon the bosom of the wave. 
             
             
               Thus he declared, and thus he done, 
               A flood of water brought he on 
               The earth, that swept from off its face 
               All but what in the Ark were placed. 
             
             
               That they might stock the earth again, 
               He therefore did let them remain. 
               And unto them his blessing give, 
               Saying, multiply, replenish, live. 
             
             
               And so they all the earth possessed, 
               And by their King were saved and blessed, 
               Who gave unto them his command, 
               And said they might possess the land, 
               And eat the fruits thereof and live, 
               And to his word adherence give. 
             
             
             
               But all their offspring did not so, 
               As previously we let you know. 
               For some did right and others wrong, 
               As time did thus advance along. 
             
             
               Now some of these we here might name, 
               Who were of great renown and fame. 
               And did great wonders in their day, 
               Some for the right, some the wrong way. 
             
             
               The first of note that we can name, 
               Was Nimrod, of the race of Ham, 
               Who did become a mighty man, 
               And ruled as king upon the land. 
             
             
               A mighty hunter called was he 
               Before the Lord, as you may see, 
               By looking in the King's record, 
               Which doth declare his holy word. 
             
             
               The founding of his Kingdom were 
               Babel in the land of Shinar, 
               Including other places too, 
               Which probably he did subdue. 
             
             
               That he was mighty, we're assured 
               By reading in King Alpha's word. 
               But what did constitute his power 
               Of that we are not made so sure. 
             
             
               But some attempt for to express, 
               It did consist in wickedness. 
               But as true greatness cannot be 
               Connected with iniquity. 
             
             
               Therefore we claim they have no right 
               For so to speak of Nimrod's might, 
               As it is left upon record 
               He mighty was before the Lord. 
             
             
               And for his might to associate 
               With Alpha's name, who is so great, 
               If wrong his might did constitute, 
               'Twould seem King Alpha's name to pollute. 
             
             
             
               Therefore we can't agree with them, 
               To couple wickedness with his name. 
               So Nimrod then might have been good, 
               And for the cause of Alpha stood. 
             
             
               What was called Shinar long ago, 
               It's thought is China, and if so, 
               To Nimrod's due for bringing forth 
               The largest nation now on earth. 
             
             
               Whose government has longer stood 
               Than any nation since the flood. 
               So then this people of Ham's race 
               There's none so numerous on earth's face. 
             
             
               Which speaks not ill of this same race 
               On whom is piled so much disgrace. 
               But history, sacred nor profane, 
               Those who do so will not sustain. 
             
             
               The next great man that's on record, 
               A special friend was of the Lord, 
               Whose name was called Abraham, 
               And he adored King Alpha's name. 
             
             
               He was a mighty man of war, 
               His name was known near and far. 
               He for his King did bravely fight, 
               And put his enemies to flight. 
             
             
               And he believed in every word 
               'Twas spoke unto him by the Lord. 
               In this his power did consist, 
               And this was termed Righteousness. 
             
             
               Therefore he was called Alpha's friend, 
               On whom he fully could depend. 
               In all things which he did command, 
               This Abraham did firmly stand. 
             
             
               For having one beloved son 
               On whom his heart was set upon, 
               And him King Alpha told to slay, 
               Wherefore prepared he to obey. 
             
             
             
               But while he was preparing to, 
               And in his hand the weapon drew 
               For to despatch his dearest son 
               On whom his heart was set upon, 
             
             
               The King from heaven called his name, 
               Saying, Stay thy hand now, Abraham. 
               This act proves thy regard for me, 
               And that thou fear'st me now I see. 
             
             
               Therefore thou shall be greatly blessed, 
               And of the things of life possessed, 
               Also thy seed shall numerous be, 
               And all mankind be blessed in thee. 
             
             
               And Lot lived also in his day 
               Who did to the same sovereign pray, 
               And was a soldier in his cause, 
               And subject was unto his laws. 
             
             
               Therefore he was delivered, when 
               King Alpha did from heaven send 
               Fire and brimstone on his foes, 
               Who stubbornly did his will oppose. 
             
             
               So Sodom and Gomorrah, too, 
               He by these weapons did subdue, 
               But brought Lot out in safety, 
               And also part of his family. 
             
             
               But Lot's frail wife, who disobeyed, 
               On her also was vengeance laid, 
               And she was caused for to halt. 
               And did become a pillar of salt. 
             
             
               Isaac and Jacob, too, we'd name, 
               The sons of faithful Abraham, 
               Who, like their father, loved the Lord, 
               And did obey and keep his word. 
             
             
               Of Jacob much is on record, 
               And how he wrestled with the Lord. 
               And was so loth to let him go 
               Till he a blessing would bestow. 
             
             
             
               He had twelve sons, and from them came 
               A nation, Israel called by name, 
               Which to their father had been given 
               By his great King who lives in heaven. 
             
             
               Now their descendants seemed also 
               The King their Father serve to know, 
               And to his word many gave heed, 
               And called on him in time of need. 
             
             
               Now they in Egypt had been sent, 
               Into which land they also went, 
               And then continued many a day, 
               And often to their King would pray. 
             
             
               Now they increased in Egypt's land, 
               And were oppressed by Pharaoh's hand, 
               Who bound them down in slavery, 
               Therefore they cried to be made free. 
             
             
               And King Alpha their cries did hear, 
               And for their help did soon appear. 
               And called on Moses for to go, 
               That he should let King Pharaoh know 
             
             
               That there was one more great than he, 
               Who had resolved to set them free 
               At first he hardened his heart, 
               Unwilling to let them depart. 
             
             
               But punishments on him were sent, 
               Which often caused him to repent. 
               But full as oft he'd hardened be, 
               He was so loth to set them free. 
             
             
               At length King Alpha gave command, 
               That there be slain in Egypt's land 
               The first born in each family, 
               'Twas then he let Israel go free. 
             
             
               Moses and Aaron led them on 
               To the Red Sea, its banks upon. 
               Then Israel began to fear 
               As Pharaoh followed in the rear. 
             
             
             
               Then Moses said, Stand still and see, 
               That God this day will set you free. 
               For Pharaoh and his host you'll never 
               See them after this day forever. 
             
             
               And then by the command of God, 
               Moses was bid to stretch his rod, 
               Which, when he did, the sea gave way, 
               And Israel marched through that day. 
             
             
               And when that they the sea had crossed, 
               Again he stretched, and Pharaoh's host 
               Was drowned in the mighty flood, 
               Who dared pursue the friends of God. 
             
             
               Then Israel sang most joyfully, 
               When they perceived that they were free. 
               But time would fail to tell of all 
               That did the Israelites befall. 
             
             
               Therefore I must cut short and say 
               They from the right way oft did stray. 
               And oft the heart of Moses grieved 
               Through stubborness and unbelief. 
             
             
               Though he gave them a good command, 
               Which he received from God's own hand. 
               They this command did not obey, 
               But transgressed it from day to day. 
             
             
               At length the good man Moses died, 
               On Joshua then the burden laid, 
               Who led them across Jordan's flood, 
               To the land 'twas promised them by God. 
             
             
               And there they often did rebel, 
               How often time would fail to tell, 
               But yet there always some were true, 
               And in the right way did pursue. 
             
             
               But as their names so numerous are, 
               We'll to the King's book you refer, 
               In which you'll find their acts and deeds 
               Which at your leisure you may read. 
             
             
             
               As we have not attempted here 
               To point out each one who they are. 
               But that there always some would fight 
               Against the wrong and for the right. 
             
             
               But time would fail to tell of all 
               That did to many men befall. 
               How some did faithfully serve the Lord, 
               And others disobeyed his word. 
             
             
               But many came and many went, 
               At length his Son the Father sent 
               On earth to pay the debt of man, 
               And lay for them the gospel plan. 
             
             
               As we are limited in space, 
               We are therefore compelled to haste. 
               And so we will but hit and miss, 
               Take some of that and some of this. 
             
             
               Now to return to the great Son, 
               Who on our earth had come upon, 
               For to assail hell and the grave, 
               And from their power his people save. 
             
             
               The tyrant Death for to subdue, 
               And thereby bring his people through, 
               And having suffered in their stead, 
               He would them unto victory lead. 
             
             
               For this he came and did complete, 
               And then went up and took his seat 
               Upon his throne at the right side 
               Of his great Father, to provide 
             
             
               For all his faithful followers who, 
               Like him, shall fight their passage through 
               And having overcome, shall rest 
               Forever in his presence blessed. 
             
             
               Now he had left a chosen band 
               To blow the trump throughout the land, 
               Also to call for volunteers 
               Who would take part in these great wars. 
             
             
             
               In blowing they had great success, 
               For many to their ranks did press. 
               And valiant fought until they fell 
               Warring 'gainst powers of earth and hell. 
             
             
               And others still did them succeed, 
               For in their cause did many bleed, 
               And many a mighty hero fell 
               Contending with the powers of hell. 
             
             
               Yet none the less the Army of Light 
               Continued able for the fight, 
               And in the various regiments 
               There many valiant heroes went. 
             
             
               And they a mighty General had, 
               The Comforter, who them did lead. 
               On many a well-fought battle field, 
               In which the foe was forced to yield. 
             
             
               And Alpha's army did prevail, 
               And did the powers of hell assail. 
               Wher'er they quartered on the earth, 
               His valiant army did go forth. 
             
             
               But sometimes through some leader's fault, 
               Some regiments were forced to halt. 
               For letting enemies creep in, 
               They thereby were inclined to sin. 
             
             
               But time would fail to tell of all 
               Who thus from steadfastness did fall, 
               Or to describe the reason why 
               So many souls were doomed to die. 
             
             
               In every quarter of the earth, 
               And in that too which gave us birth, 
               These enemies have oft crept in, 
               And caused some to yield to sin. 
             
             
               Now as their number is so great, 
               We cannot them enumerate. 
               But lift our voice against them all, 
               The high, the low, the great, the small. 
             
             
             
               For in the various places where 
               Are marshalled soldiers for the war, 
               There's many stands for to oppose 
               The army as it onward goes. 
             
             
               There's Mr. Pride, also Illwill, 
               And Prejudice remaining still, 
               Though oft attacked they have been, 
               They still sustain the cause of sin. 
             
             
               There's many more that just like them 
               In the same cause support the same, 
               And stand opposed to what is right, 
               And against which they strongly fight. 
             
             
               And in what's termed America, 
               They still remain unto this day 
               Battling for Abadon's evil cause 
               'Gainst Alpha's just and righteous laws. 
             
             
               Though we have written much upon 
               The wickedness that here is done, 
               Yet there is much we still might say 
               Of what occurs in these our days. 
             
             
               Formality, a mighty foe, 
               Has now crept in the army too, 
               And robs it of that mighty power, 
               That Satan use to flee before. 
             
             
               And did the powers of earth subdue, 
               And chase the foe and him pursue, 
               And would no quarters to them give, 
               Nor suffer them at all to live. 
             
             
               But now they with these friends do make 
               And closely in their bosom take 
               Those enemies to the King of Light, 
               They do not now against them fight. 
             
             
               Unto the world they now conform, 
               Instead they should the world transform 
               Unto the image of his Son, 
               The great and the almighty One. 
             
             
             
               The praise of men there's many love 
               More than they do the things above, 
               And on these things their hearts are set, 
               So that they nobler things forget. 
             
             
               The maxims of the world they crave, 
               And fashions thereof some will have 
               Regardless of what they may cost, 
               They'll have them if their soul's lost. 
             
             
               And some who in the front do stand, 
               They do not keep the King's command. 
               And though they stand in a high place, 
               Their acts bring on the cause disgrace. 
             
             
               They in their dealings partial are, 
               For while to some they're most severe, 
               There's others they do always screen, 
               As though their fault could not be seen. 
             
             
               And some good men they trample down 
               Beneath their feet upon the ground, 
               And bad men they're exalted high, 
               And lifted up on to the sky. 
             
             
               In offices of trust they're put, 
               And better men are oft kept out. 
               Yea, they support such wicked things, 
               Yet say they're servants of the King. 
             
             
               To make these things more plain, we'll say, 
               These things are done in this our day 
               By men who do the highest stand 
               In church, and should keep the command. 
             
             
               Now these are stumbling blocks indeed, 
               The men we say who thus proceed. 
               They are unworthy of the place 
               They occupy, and it disgrace. 
             
             
               No matter what pretext they have, 
               'Twill not from this decision save, 
               Nor screen them from the wrath of God, 
               Who in these wicked ways have trod. 
             
             
             
               Some say they obligations have, 
               Which bind them for some men to save 
               In preference unto some others, 
               Seeing that they are pledged as brothers. 
             
             
               Now, if this really is the fact 
               That Christian men form such compact, 
               They bind themselves to not do right, 
               And sin against the King of Light. 
             
             
               Yea, they do form a league with hell, 
               Which if they keep, they there must dwell. 
               For it conflicts with God's command, 
               And how can those who break it stand? 
             
             
               When he doth come to judge all men, 
               Nothing but justice will stand then. 
               To persons he has no respect, 
               And all that's wrong he will reject. 
             
             
               And injustice is surely wrong, 
               And does not to his Church belong. 
               So they who use partiality 
               The King and them cannot agree. 
             
             
               Then men of God, come, flee these things, 
               Which on the Church such evil brings, 
               And do your part to keep her pure, 
               That she in judgment may endure. 
             
             
               The scrutiny of Alpha's eye 
               Before whom all things open lie, 
               That when he comes the Judge severe, 
               She then may stand approved and clear. 
             
             
               As she the army is of Light, 
               She thus must be prepared to fight. 
               And stand when comes the great review, 
               When all the warfare has got through. 
             
             
               Therefore let every regiment 
               Endeavor to be diligent, 
               And be prepared to meet the foe 
               When to the battle they must go. 
             
             
             
               For a great war is coming on, 
               The precise time is known to none, 
               Except the King of Light alone. 
               To all others it is unknown. 
             
             
               For so his word doth plainly say 
               The coming of the trying day 
               Will be as comes a thief at night, 
               And so will come the King of Light. 
             
             
               To lead his army to the fight, 
               Which shall defeat the powers of night. 
               For victory shall be achieved 
               By those who have his word believed. 
             
             
               Therefore when men attempt to say 
               That they may know the very day, 
               They contradict the Word of God, 
               And such their words have never stood. 
             
             
               For some to know the time pretend, 
               When surely there will come the end. 
               But past experience makes it plain, 
               That all such pretences are vain. 
             
             
               And proves the truth of the record 
               That's given to us by the Lord, 
               Which he in mercy did provide, 
               That it should always be our guide. 
             
             
               Now as we've come down to our day, 
               We must therefore pursue our way, 
               And complete what we have began, 
               Concerning of the sons of men. 
             
             
               So to the army we return, 
               Which yet has many things to learn, 
               To perfect her in everything 
               That she may stand before the King. 
             
             
               When he doth come to take command, 
               That each may in his station stand, 
                
               And also be in perfect drill, 
               And every order may fulfill. 
             
             
               And may have the whole armor on, 
               That he may say to them well done, 
               Come, follow me, to meet the foe, 
               For to the battle we must go. 
             
             
               Now, the attack will be severe, 
               When comes this long expected war. 
               For all the force on either side 
               Will meet, the contest to decide. 
             
             
               The number there's no man can tell, 
               For it will be innumerable. 
               And Abadon will do his best 
               To overcome in this contest. 
             
             
               His coming will be very fierce, 
               As men and means will not be scarce, 
               He'll come up strongly fortified, 
               To see if he can turn the tide 
             
             
               Of battle, to maintain the ground, 
               And then for to encamp thereon, 
               And hold it as his own domain, 
               That he might boast of his great gain. 
             
             
               For well he knows if he is beat, 
               His overthrow will be complete. 
               Therefore he'll strive with might and main, 
               To see if he the field can gain. 
             
             
               That Abadon is no weak foe, 
               This formerly we let you know. 
               And how long since he first began 
               His attacks on the sons of men. 
             
             
               This being near six thousand years, 
               He can't but know the arts of war. 
               His officers are veterans too, 
               And will do all that they can do 
             
             
             
               Themselves and him for to sustain, 
               But all their efforts will be vain. 
               For Alpha's army will prevail, 
               For while he leads, it cannot fail. 
             
             
               And them that's in his army are 
               Valiant, and must be men of war. 
               For he no other men will have 
               But them he knows are true and brave. 
             
             
               And the whole armor must have on, 
               For them to be relied upon. 
               Therefore unless they this have got, 
               They'll be by him accepted not. 
             
             
               Now therefore you who soldiers are, 
               And have enlisted for the war, 
               To fight until the battle's o'er, 
               You must put on the whole armor. 
             
             
               For it will be required when you 
               Shall have to meet this dreadful foe. 
               For when that evil day comes on, 
               You'll need to have the armor on. 
             
             
               For all the artillery of hell 
               Against you then he will level. 
               Therefore, soldiers, do all to stand, 
               For this you know is God's command. 
             
             
               And surely by our doing so, 
               We'll able be to beat the foe, 
               And drive him from the battle ground, 
               And then we'll pitch our tents thereon. 
             
             
               And wait till we receive command 
               To march to Sion's happy land. 
               Now when we're formed in rank and file, 
               They will reach many a thousand miles. 
             
             
               In length, all dressed in armor bright. 
               'Twill be a very pretty sight. 
                
               When music all begins to play, 
               I think the saints will shout that day. 
             
             
               And when to Zion we have come 
               To make that city now our home, 
               Our General who will ride before, 
               Will give command to ope the door. 
             
             
               The gates shall then be open wide 
               For to receive King Alpha's bride. 
               For so the army he will style, 
               Which fought for him so long a while. 
             
             
               And when that they have entered in, 
               Their happiness shall just begin. 
               There they shall rest a thousand years, 
               And be set free from doubts and fears. 
             
             
               For all their foes shall conquered be, 
               And they no more shall sorrow see. 
               And long together they will dwell, 
               Most joyful news they each will tell. 
             
             
               For all who faithful lived before, 
               They then shall meet to part no more. 
               But with King Alpha they shall reign 
               A thousand years on earth remain. 
             
             
               For all that time is Satan bound, 
               So that he can't come on the ground. 
               But when he has that long remained 
               In prison, he'll be loosed again. 
             
             
               And will go out for to deceive 
               Those who refused thus to believe 
               Who Gog and Magog have been termed, 
               And who from earth had been extermed. 
             
             
               Whose number is as the seas' sand, 
               Them he will bring up on the land 
               For to attack the saints of God, 
               But him and them shall be destroyed. 
             
             
             
               For Alpha will from heaven shower 
               Fire which shall them all devour. 
               And Abadon who them so deceived, 
               In a lake of fire shall be received. 
             
             
               Where others of his comrades are, 
               From which they shall come out no more, 
               But dwell while endless ages last 
               By infinite power they'll be held fast. 
             
             
               But all the children of the Light 
               Shall be arrayed in garments bright, 
               And shall forever happy be 
               All the days of eternity. 
             
             
               And in the New Jerusalem 
               Will be their everlasting home. 
               Their happiness will be complete, 
               When they with all they love shall meet. 
             
             
               All things being now created new, 
               But I need not describe to you 
               The glories of that heavenly place, 
               Where they shall see their Father's face. 
             
             
               As we to you described above 
               The pleasures of that world of love, 
               In which I hope that we shall meet, 
               And 
                     gronnd
                     ground
                   our arms at Jesus' feet. 
             
            
               Adieu. 
               Your brother in Christ, 
               L. D. B.
             
            P. S. If life lasts, I may address you again, the Lord willing. Amen. 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF THE AUTHOR 1
                
               PREFACE 19
                
             
             
               PART FIRST. 
               The Founding of the Celestial and the Terrestrial Countries by the King of Light, and Regulations made by Him for their government-The beautifying of the Terrestrial land as preliminary to placing His subjects thereon 20
                
               The forming of His first subjects on the Earth, and placing them in possession of all thereon, and departing from them for a little season into the Celestial country 23
                
               The Rebellion of Abadon in the Celestial Country, and the great war in consequence thereof, many taking sides with him, with whom he took counsel, and finally determined to raise war in that land where peace had ever dwelt before-Abadon, to carry out his purposes, assembled his forces, assumed the command of his Army, and determined to lead them in battle against the King of Light-To meet and thwart them, the great King of Light commissioned the warrior Michael to assemble his true and valiant soldiers for battle, well arming and equipping them with such weapons from the Armory as was necessary for battle-His servant Gabriel to assist in commanding the army 24
                
               The opposing armies meeting-Their Commanders have an interview, and an oration is made by Mr. Truth, the King of Light's orator, after finishing which he cast a dart at Abadon which takes effect, greatly wounding him, thus beginning the war, in which Abadon and all his force were put to flight with great loss 25
                
                
               They nevertheless renew the battle and are repeatedly repulsed, but not driven from the Celestial Land entirely, but far from the City of Light 25
                
               On the third day the King of Light's Son, Alpha and Omega, enter the field in person, by the will of his Father, mounted in his fiery Chariot-His right hand grasping ten thousand thunders-He speedily drives into the thickest of the alien host, whom subduing, he returns in triumph from the field, dragging them bound in chains at his Chariot wheels, and casteth them from all the Celestial land into Hades, there to remain reserved in Chains of Darkness unto the judgment of the Great Day-But yet, being spirits, they are permitted to roam the air outside of the limits of the Celestial land, with the mark of condemnation upon them, and being thus cast out, they conclude to adopt every possible means to prevent mankind from becoming inhabitants of that land, from whence they, through transgression fell, thinking thereby to avenge themselves on their Conqueror 26
                
               They therefore take counsel to inaugurate a continual warfare against the race of man, and beginning with the first, they so far succeeded through deception as to induce them to transgress in the Terrestrial Land, as their leader had done in the Celestial, thereby subjecting them to the same penalty for disobedience, they themselves had incurred-Unless there was some provision made for their Ransom, which thing their gracious King was so merciful as to do-And for this cause he speedily paid them a visit, and after reproving them and chastising them for their disobedience, by driving them out from the delightful Garden, and pronouncing the sentence of Death upon them, he left them not without a promise: on conditions of Repentance and future obedience, and though they must return by their King's command to dust from whence they came, yet, he promised to raise them again from the dust, through the merits of his Son, and make them more happy than at the first, if they would only sincerely repent and believe 27
                
                
               They begin to multiply their race, partaking of their fallen Nature-Their first-born slayed his brother, because his own works were evil, and his brother's were good-The King for this cause put a penalty upon him, but through his repentance it was ameliorated, his descendants nevertheless cleave to the King of Darkness, thereby the Kingdom of Darkness became established-His Father, after the death of his brother, begetting another son, whose descendants cleave more to the King of Light, thereby founding the Kingdom of Light; thus the two kingdoms was began-The reader admonished 30
                
               The increase of the Kingdom of Darkness filling the Terrestrial land with violence, so that the King of Light, grieved at the Rebellion of man, justly determined to destroy them off the face of the Earth 33
                
               Noah finds grace in the King's eyes, and, by his command, builds an Ark to the saving of himself and family, and two and two of every living creature, from destruction by a flood of water-The King of Light overthrows his enemies by a flood of water, but saves his servant Noah, and his family, that becomes the founding of his kingdom again on Earth; they at length become rebellious, and attempt the building of the Tower, whose top might reach the Celestial land; this being displeasing to the King, he comes down and confounds their language, thereby preventing their further progress therein 34
                
               They nevertheless continued in Rebellion with but few exceptions, and yielded obedience to Abadon, rather than the King of Light 34
                
               The City of Babylon, built in the Land of Darkness, over which Abadon reigns-A description of the condition of the Kingdom of Darkness, Abadon sends out his Chief orator Mr. Untruth, to make a proclamation to men, which in doing he declareth that Abadon is their rightful sovereign, whom they are in duty bound to obey, and that they are better off in the service of Abadon, than they would be in that of Alpha 35
                
                
               Untruth's false proclamation believed by the most part of men, who adhere to Abadon 36
                
               The names and business of some of his chief officers-They succeed in leading many astray-A description of the two Tyrant Kings that rule under Abadon 
               King Alpha beholding from his lofty throne the lamentable condition that men were in-He undertakes for them, and determines to rescue them in the fulness of time 38
                
               How he made his first appearance amongst them, joy in the Celestial Land thereat 40
                
               Some of the shining ones attend him, and proclaim his coming to Shepherds, who are sore afraid, because of the brilliant light that shone on the important occasion 42
                
               His lineage, the shepherds being informed by the Herald of Light, where the King in infant form should make his first appearance, resorted thither, and saw the King with joy, and spread the news abroad what was told them by the shining ones 43
                
               The King's forerunner, his mission and proceedings-How the King found his subjects, and the state of the City of Zion, the walls of which were torn down 46
                
               He gave directions for its rebuilding, laying the strong foundation thereof with his own hand, so that it could not be removed 47
                
               Standing on the foundation, he invites the return of his Rebellious subjects by the sound of the Gospel trumpet, calling all far and near 47
                
               He makes choice of twelve to be his immediate followers to whom he gives directions concerning the rebuilding the broken walls of Zion, and the establishing of his Kingdom on the Terrestrial land, &c. &c. 48
                
               His determination to make war on the Powers of Darkness-He gave extraordinary power to his twelve chosen ones, authorizing them to follow his example in destroying the works of Darkness-He exhibits his power in casting down the strongholds of Abadon 53
                
                
               The injustice of his subjects generally-Yet some hearken to the sound of the Gospel Trumpet, and enlist under the blood-stained banner of the King of Light-Orator Truth, he 
                     choses
                     chooses
                   for his companion, how he and his trumpeters proceeded-Orator Truth makes proclamations 54
                
               The Trumpeters blow the Trumpet, many hearing the sound forsakes Babylon, and Abadon's force, and come to Zion, Abadon is enraged; and sends out his officer to bring them back-They are not successful 55
                
               War declared against the Powers of Darkness, Abadon 
                     choses
                     chooses
                   Unbelief for his chief guard and sentinel-How he proceeded, Untruth, Abadon's orator, makes proclamations favorable to Abadon's cause, he co-operates with Unbelief, how they were received by mankind-Of Mr. Deception-The land of Sin and Death-The wages there given-The state of the inhabitants thereof-Of the land of Zion-How Orator Truth, and the Gospel Trumpeters sounded, and the effect thereof-where they stood 56
                
               Abadon's Commander-in-chief and his three generals and the host they commanded-Why Untruth and Unbelief, stood by the wayside 57
                
               What Alpha ordained-Messrs. Confession and Repentance sent to Babylon, to conduct those who desired to come to Zion, Mr. Conscience having been first sent to remind men of their duty, and the consequences of neglecting it-The effect of Conscience's visit-The offenders conclude to send a petition to the King of Light, they are directed by Mr. Truth whom to send it by-Their petition accepted by the King, and granted to the great joy of all parties concerned, and being encouraged they immediately start for the City of Zion in company with their messengers joined by Mr. Truth, who conducted them into the King's highway-Mr. Truth, and Mr. Untruth, Opponents-Mr. Faith, and Mr. Unbelief, the same-Their proceedings: and the effect of them, their skirmishes and battles, each heading their Armies 58
                
                
               Untruth and Unbelief, often put to flight with their Army of Doubts, by Messrs. Truth and Faith, which greatly enrages Abadon-He calls a council of his colleagues, to consider what best to do to support their cause-They counsel the destruction of the person of King Alpha, this Abadon therefore decrees; as kings Sin and Death, and the rest of his nobility, perfectly agree thereto, therefore, all the Powers of Darkness become engaged to bring it to pass 59
                
               As King Alpha came not at this time, to permanently abide on the Earth, therefore he suffered them to so far prevail as to take his temporal life, as nothing could be more productive of good, and the prosperity of his Kingdom on Earth, than that he should die for its good, and thereby pay the debt man owed, which must needs be paid, or all would be forever undone 60
                
               Search being made throughout the Universe, there was none found 
                     tnat
                     that
                   was able and willing to pay this debt but the only begotten Son of the King of Light, therefore, he agrees and engages at an appointed time and place to meet Justice and there and then pay in man's stead all the Law demanded 61
                
               END OF THE FIRST PART, AND AN APOLOGY BY THE AUTHOR 61
                
             
             
               PART SECOND. 
               The Resumption and Incidental remarks regarding it, with an Apology by the Author for past and present defects 62
                
               The agreement of King Alpha with Justice, their meeting on Calvary to fulfil it-Justice having his full account made out, demands a settlement thereof and a full Atonement for the Transgression of man-Nothing less than an Infinite Atonement being sufficient to satisfy the demand of Justice 63
                
               Princess Mercy present on this occasion, also, all the Powers of Darkness under Abadon, they plead for man's destruction, having a claim against him through his obedience to them 63
                
                
               Justice agreed to the Legality of their claim, and decided to give man over to King Death, that he might imprison him in Hades forever, unless an ample Atonement was made, and his demand satisfied-He gives Death in charge the Keys of Hades, that he might wound man and take him a prisoner 
               The Majesty on High consenting thereto, Princess Mercy pleads that this sentence should be repealed, and smiling in the Face of the Father, and the Son, she asks that the Son should undertake it for him 65
                
               The hand of Death being lifted up to give the fatal blow, Messiah steps between and receives the stroke in man's stead, and falling beneath it, was taken a prisoner for a season-On the third day he attacks and conquers Death, and taking his Keys in his own hand he unlocks the door, and comes forth a victorious conqueror over Abadon, Sin, and Death, and riding forth in his Chariot of Love he spoils their Powers, making them a show openly as 
                     vanqnished
                     vanquished
                   and conquered foes, and released man from all the claims that were had against him, on condition of future obedience-He communicates his intentions to his twelve chosen ones very soon after having fought and gained Victory-Mercy and Justice have a friendly Interview, on the occasion of what was done for man-King Messiah holds a receipt in full, freeing man from all that Justice had against him, to be given to men on reasonable conditions 66
                
               The King of Light having accomplished all that he left the Celestial Country to do, previous to his return to an Ascension of his Throne, there, he called his chosen ones together, and makes to them these conditions known, and gives them all necessary instructions regarding the establishing of his Kingdom in the Terrestrial country 67
                
               He Commissions them to go into all the Terrestrial Land, and make it known to every creature-He then takes his departure from them in the presence of five hundred witnesses, going up in their sight towards the Celestial Land-Their proceedings after his departure, the effects thereof 68
                
                
               Three thousand in one day, from the effect of an address by Peter, enlisted, leaving Abadon's service, they take the Oath of Allegiance to Alpha, and was given suitable Arms, wherewith to fight-A description of the Shield of Faith and its use-A description of the Helmet, and its use-A description of the Breastplate and its use and name 72
                
               Of the Gospel Shoes and their use, and Power-A description of the Sword and its Power, and use-Of the Weapon called Prayer-Of the Trumpeters and Weapons, and use-Their Commission-The name of their Weapons 73
                
               The effect of the wounds of the Watchman's arrows, the pain very severe, the Author speaks from self experience-The great responsibility of the Watchman's position-Where the Arrows are manufactured, and by whom-Why the King wills men to be wounded with those Arrows-The skill of King Alpha and the Comforter as Physicians-Why the Comforter is called by that name, to whom the Bow, Arrows, and Quiver, are given 74
                
               The necessity of the Whole Armor-Of the Primitive Army and their acts, and the effects thereof-The Ability of the Comforter as a Leader of Baptism, and its effect-Of the Body and Soul 76
                
               Of Simon commissioned by the Comforter a General, The Commission of the other Eleven and their Successors, their Responsibility, how it was performed by those to whom it was given, the effect thereof-The effect of these wars 79
                
               The Order of Beings engaged in them on each side-Man, when being a partaker of the Divine Nature is exceeding Powerful in Battle, so that the Powers that assail him, not being Almighty, therefore, they cannot prevail against him-The two Grand Divisions, viz.: Jews and Gentiles, or Circumcision and Uncircumcision, and what they comprise 81
                
               General Peter, and many others commissioned to the former-His and their proceedings, by the order and the example of the King of Light towards them-What was their success, and how received by them 83
                
               Of Saul, and his doings before and after his Conversion, how that was accomplished 84
                
               Peter being first to espouse the cause of Messiah, publicly and boldly, after his departure to the Celestial Country, and also stood first on the list of the Twelve first Chosen to him, therefore is ascribed the honor of being Senior Officer, and to him was given the commission to the Circumcision, in which he was mighty 86
                
               Likewise to Saul, who was now called Paul, was given the Commission to the Uncircumcision, in which he seems to have been equally mighty-An account of the heroic deeds and great suffering, and final Martyrdom of Paul and many others, Peter being included-A Brief Sketch of Peter, his first and last Career and Martyrdom by Crucifixion-Sketch of Nero and his doings, and End-Brief Sketch of Distinguished Warriors, James included-Brief Account of John, and his wonderful doings, and Triumphant End-Of his Successor, Polycarp, and Ignatius, his successor 89
                
               The Prosperity of the Kingdom of Light, notwithstanding all the Oppositions against it-King Alpha keeps a vast Standing Army, at an exceeding great cost of Blood and treasure 93
                
               Incidents of various Districts-A rehearsal of the founding of the various Districts and Divisions of the Grand Army of Light, and their operations 94
                
               A Description of the Officers in Command 99
                
             
             
               PART THIRD. 
               The Gentile Grand Division-A lively description by General Hope, of the Glories of the Celestial Country-A Map and Telescopic view of the same by General Faith-The Effect of looking over Faith's Map and through his Telescope upon the Soldiers of Light-Faith Characterized: Charity also 100
                
               Abadon's three Generals, Lust of the Eye, Lust of the Flesh, Pride of Life, Characterized-Sketch of the Roman Division, and what there Occurred 101
                
                
               The Difference between the True Soldiers of Light, and them that are not, how this is verified in their Death, in their Life likewise-A brief Description of the Gentile Grand Division, and the Sufferings endured therein by its Soldiers for a time and season, until, an Earthly King is risen up, who defends the Soldiers of Light, by power given to him by King Alpha-Then is the Army of Light prosperous for a space of time 301
                
               Abadon is thereby greatly offended, and fearing the overthrow of his Kingdom, calls a Council of his Officials to determine what course best to pursue to prevent this occurrence, this Council finally decide to organize a False Army, which shall fight under false colors, pretending to be the true Army of Light-Their Decision concurred in by all the Powers of Darkness-How this succeeded, and what the false army did 108
                
               Abadon sends Discord to sow Seed of Contention and Strife in the various Divisions of the Army of Light-It is Cultivated by him and springing up, thereby many are defiled through the lack of not letting the Ploughshare of the Gospel run deep enough through the Soil, as they should have done, and thereby prevented this crop from coming to perfection 110
                
               This not being done it brings forth abundantly, and is trafficked by Mr. Untruth, Unbelief, and others, in disguise amongst the Soldiers of Light-A Description of its direful effects upon many of them-A Rebellion brought on 111
                
               Incidental Remarks on the vast difference in Uniform and otherwise, between true Soldiers of Light and others, as reviewed by Mr. Truth-Abadon gives his Power and Authority to the False Army, who use it in Opposition to, and Persecution of, the true Army-The False Army sheds more blood under Pope, than had ever been shed under Pagan-A Description of how they decoyed and tortured their victims 114
                
               Of Mr. Carnality and his Power and doings-The Soldiers of Light gain a greater victory by dying, than by living-Millions are slain by the hand of these Bloody Tyrants, who defend Abadon's vile cause 115
                
                
               How they are Rewarded by their King in the Celestial country 115
                
               Of the Great Beast, unto whom Abadon gives his Power and Authority-Its Continuance, until receiving a deadly wound by a Soldier of Light, after which its Power decreased, until there was less blood shed than formerly-The Army of Light have peace-What the Gentile Grand Division did-Names of various Regiments, their Rules, Regulations, and Acts 118
                
               Of the various Districts of the Terrestrial Country, of Modern times-Asia District-Of King Alpha's Ambassadors and Skirmishers, and their doings, and success in this District, and the General progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness therein 119
                
               Of the Mahommed Regiment-The Brahma Regiment-Of the Buddha Regiment-The Grand Lama Regiment-Of the Fo Regiment-A Description of the African Grand Division and its various Districts and Regiments, and the General progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness therein-A Description of the Oceanica Grand Division, its Districts and Regiments and the General progress of the two Opposite Kingdoms therein-Europe, A Description of the past and present Condition of this Grand Division, and the General progress of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness therein-Of the Various Regiments of Light and Darkness, of their Battles and victories 121
                
               The American Grand Division-A Description of the various Districts thereof, and the Operations of the different Regiments Constituting the Armies of Light and Darkness, occupying the various Districts thereof-The American Grand Division being divided into two separate Divisions, namely: North and South, each being divided into various Districts 145
                
               A Description of South America, operations of the Opposing Armies, the Progress of the two Kingdoms therein-A Description of North America, the Progress of Light and Darkness therein 146
                
               The United States, the Progress of Light and Darkness therein described 149
                
                
               Slavery and Prejudice to Color treated at some length by the Author, and the late War, and its cause and consequence 149
                
               An Apology by the Author to the members of any Regiment he may have unintentionally omitted to take due notice of 188
                
             
             
               PART FOURTH. 
               A Description of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness as they now stand in the Terrestrial Country 189
                
               A Description of the Light Infantry-The Heavy Artillery of Darkness described-The Necessity of the Army of Light being put on a proper war footing-Notice taken of Regiments of Darkness, not before named-A Description of their Character and doings-Their being attacked by various Regiments of Light 194
                
               Those Regiments of Darkness, feigning to be Regiments of Light, are able to do the more harm 200
                
               The Power and ability of the Comforter to lead the Army of Light on to certain victory, as intended by King Alpha-The Powers of Darkness will be subdued and captured in due time 201
                
               A Reference to beginning of Part First 202
                
               Of the War of Subjugation, and the necessary Preparation of the Soldiers of Light therefor-Of the Consequence of their not being so prepared-In this War, King Alpha himself will lead the Army in Person-His Power and Qualifications being indescribable, he cannot fail to gain Victory-The supposition that the General Engagement will soon be brought on-the exceeding great results that will accrue therefrom 203
                
               This great battle having been fought, and the Victory gained, the Army of Light will return in Triumph from the Field, and entering the Great City of Zion, will have great Joy, and Peace will be proclaimed, and the Army will then have rest for One Thousand years, and receive the approval of their King, together with his Royal favor, and the esteem of their fellow citizens 206
                
               Abadon having been Captured and held in durance vile for the space of a Thousand years, being loosed, will attempt another War, and for that end will assemble all of his available Force together, who are called Gog and Magog: the Number of whom are as the sand on the seashore for multitude 208
                
               The last War, which will be one of Extermination, therefore, very great and momentous will be the results accruing therefrom-The Author feeling his incapacity to give a Perfect and Correct account of the same-After acknowledging the assistance of the great King of Light in essaying to describe the foregoing part of this work, he petitions to King Alpha to send to his aid, the Comforter, who being well acquainted with all that is to come, as well as all that is past, that therefore he may be his Instructor, in his attempt to describe this last great Battle, and its equally great and momentous results, which without the assistance of the Comforter is indescribable; Anticipation of the author 210
                
             
             
               FIFTH AND LAST PART. 
               The Author under obligation to be guided by inspiration alone, in his further detail of the Kingdoms of Light and Darkness 212
                
               Of Gog and Magog, whom Abadon will go out to deceive-Of his success in so doing-The author's opinion who Gog and Magog are Spiritually 213
                
               The Situation of the City of Zion, when Abadon attempts its capture, described-How he and all of his Combined Powers will be overthrown by King Alpha, who will send fire upon them from the Celestial Land, by which they will be destroyed 214
                
               Abadon and his Colleagues cast into a Lake of Fire and Brimstone 214
                
               The King of Light displaying his Power-Earth and Heaven flee away from his Face, and place is found no more-He erects a great White Throne, and summons all to stand before his Bar to be judged, standing on a Platform erected by him for the purpose on empty air, The Appearance of the Different Subjects at the Bar, each resembling their King-A Division line drawn between the true Soldiers of Light and the Rebels-The General Judgment 215
                
                
               The Opening of the Five Books, their names and a Description of what they contain-All men judged out of them-The Final Result-Incidental remarks concerning of the effect of reading the Books and the King Judging accordingly 216
                
               The lines being formed Preparatory to the Soldiers of Light taking up their march to the Gold paved City, each one taking his Position according to the time they enlisted in the Army, the veterans of the army being placed in the front ranks, each one will be rewarded according to their works. 222
                
               The General Army reviewed, will be acquitted from all blame, will be addressed approvingly by King Alpha and invited into the New Jerusalem City, to partake of the Hospitalities thereof, and become Citizens and Inhabitants for ever of the same 224
                
               How the Army will appear when dressed in Uniform-Their delightful march into the City, and great reception therein-The Procession very large and Imposing all being arrayed in dazzling Splendor 225
                
               Abadon and his followers being Arraigned at the Bar for High Treason, are found Guilty, and Consigned by the Judge to Endless Punishment and woe, in Hades 226
                
               The Reflection of those who have been Deceived by Abadon, and Decoyed into Hades, when they shall have arrived there, and feel its pain-The Remembrance of Opportunities lost will augment their pain-The writer hopes his own, and the reader's escape therefrom 227
                
               The great Contrast between the 
                     Situatiom
                     Situation
                   of the Subjects of the King of Light, and those of the King of Darkness, the one being happy beyond expression, while the other will be equally unhappy and miserable 228
                
               The Army of Light, by the Order of their King, take their march toward that beautiful and delightful City built for them by their King-The City Described-A Description of the Army of Light-An Oration to them of Commendation by King Alpha, prior to their taking their march to the City 230
                
               Their hearty Response thereto, after which the Army moves forward, each Division in its proper place, led by its proper Officers 231
                
                
               Generals Faith and Hope, having fulfilled their Commission and been Honorably Discharged, go not into the City, but retire into the land of Oblivion, there to remain until called for, if ever 232
                
               Officers Truth and Charity keep their position, and with many other Officers, will enter with the Army into the City 233
                
               Veteran Officers Represent their Regiments and Divisions 235
                
               Musicians discourse beautifully on their Instruments 237
                
               The Celestial and Terrestrial Armies meet, headed by their most Prominent Officers, and salute and congratulate each other, the former escorting the latter to the City-Their arrival there-The King commands the Gates to be opened-The Porter Responds-Their Triumphal entrance, and grand Reception in the Gold paved City 240
                
               The Proceedings of the Father, the Son, and the Comforter, on their arrival in the City Described 241
                
               The Army after paying the Honor due to the great Majesty on High, will repair to their Splendid Mansions and receive as their Guests the Inhabitants of the City, and have long and pleasant interviews with them, which will enlarge their Happiness-A Brief Exhortation by the Author, a Description of the Marriage Supper of the Lamb, at his Father's house, and the Incidents Connected therewith 242
                
               The Conclusion, and Wish and Prayer of the Author 244
                
               A 
                     Suplement
                     Supplement
                  ; Important subjects treated on in addition to prior matter; Poems by the Author in accordance with Prose 253-273
                
             
          
          
            ERRATA.-Page 182, 12th line from the top, read "to wear crowns of never fading glory and palms of victory." Last line on same page read "it does affect us" instead of "it does not affect us." 
          
       
   
