
    ----CITATION----
        Arthur, T. S. (1809-1885). The Tavern-keeper's Victims, or, Six Nights With the Washingtonians .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5649 wright2-0130
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  GENIUS OF TEMPERANCE.—FRONTISPIECE.
               
            
         
         
            
               THE TAVERN-KEEPER'S VICTIMS;
               OR, SIX NIGHTS WITH THE WASHINGTONIANS.
            
            BY T. S. ARTHUR
            
            NEW AND COMPLETE EDITION, WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               LEARY, GETZ & CO., 
                     224 NORTH SECOND ST.
                  
               
            
            1860.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, by LEARY, GETZ & CO., in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            WHEN these Temperance Tales were commenced, the writer did not anticipate so favorable a reception as they have obtained in all directions. He believed that, if he were to enter a field so full of rich materials as the one opened by the great Temperance Reformation, he might present scenes that would not only deeply interest, but act as powerful auxiliaries in the promotion of that noble cause. His success has been far beyond his expectations. But this success has resulted entirely from the fact, that, in nearly every one of the stories presented, there has been, as its groundwork, a basis of real incidents, and these have been detailed without any aim at artificial effect, but simply with a view to let truth and nature speak forth in their legitimate power and pathos.
            At every step of his progress in these tales, the writer has felt with the actors—sympathising with them in their heart-aching sorrows, and rejoicing with them when the morning has broken after a long night of affliction. This is because they were not mere fictions of his own imagination: and it is because they are not mere fictions that they have any power to awaken a corresponding interest in the mind of the reader.
            Their title, "Six Nights with the Washingtonians," was suggested, naturally, from the fact of the writer's having been present at some of the first experience meetings in Baltimore, only a few months after the formation of the original Washington Temperance Society. The impression then made upon his mind by the simple but eloquent details of its members, as they related their sad experiences, can never be effaced. Many of the very experiences to which the writer alludes have since been related by these pioneers, in almost every city in the Union, and the whole country can now attest their power to move the heart.
         
         
            INTRODUCTION.
            OF the few deservedly popular writers of the present day, none stand more fair with the reading community than T. S. ARTHUR; and no class of books are more highly appreciated, nor more widely circulated, than those from his pen.
            The series of TEMPERANCE TALES issued by him, when the question of "Total Abstinence" was convulsing the whole country, though among his earlier productions, are not inferior, in any respect, to his subsequent writings; and their circulation, first in pamphlet form, and afterwards in two small volumes, has far exceeded that of any publication of a similar character.
            The increasing demand for a uniform edition of Mr. Arthur's works has induced us to issue this work in its present form, that it may match his other volumes.
            
            GEORGE CRUIKSHANK has done immense service to the Temperance Cause by the publication of "THE BOTTLE," a series of etchings, depicting the progress of intemperance and its fearful consequences. They are interspersed through this volume, not to illustrate the matter, but, the subject itself.
            
               THE PUBLISHERS.
            
         
         
            
               CONTENTS.
               THE BROKEN MERCHANT. Page 11
               
               THE EXPERIENCE MEETING. 59
               
               THE RECLAIMED. 64
               
               THE MAN WITH THE POKER. 81
               
               THE DRUNKARD'S BIBLE. 88
               
               AFTER TO-DAY; OR, TREATING RESOLUTION. 92
               
               SIGNING THE PLEDGE. 101
               
               THE TAVERN-KEEPER. 111
               
               THE DRUNKARD'S WIFE. 157
               
               THE WIDOW'S SON. 205
               
               THE MODERATE DRINKER. 269
               
            
         
         
            
            
               
                  THE BOTTLE.
                  SCENE 1st.—THE BOTTLE IS BROUGHT OUT FOR THE FIRST TIME: THE HUSBAND INDUCES HIS WIFE "JUST TO TAKE A DROP."
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The tavern-keeper's victims, or, Six nights with the Washingtonians
            
               THE BROKEN MERCHANT.
               
               THE BROKEN MERCHANT,
               "COME," said a friend, one evening in the winter of 1841 "let us look in upon the Washingtonians."
               "The Washingtonians!" I replied. "And pray, who and what are they?"
               "Have you not heard about them?"
               "No."
               "Then you are ignorant of one of the most remarkable facts in the history of the times."
               "Explain yourself."
               "With pleasure. About nine months ago, perhaps not quite so long, there were assembled in a drinking-house in this city, (Baltimore,) six men, well advanced in years, who had for a long time been confirmed drunkards, or, at least, so wedded to the love of strong drink, as to have found it almost impossible to live without a daily resort to its stimulating influences. They had met accidentally, or rather, without any other design in repairing to the barroom than that which had taken them there a hundred and a hundred times. But in the mind of each there was a feeling of sorrow for his enslaved and wretched condition. A strong desire to rise out of it—yet a painful, hopeless sense of weakness. How often, alas! how often had each made resolutions of reform. How often had each renouncing ed the cup of confusion, only to seek again the bewildering draught, and to sink still lower in the scale of human degradation!
               "Thus they met as they had often met before; but neither seemed inclined to call for the subtle poison that had so many times stolen away their reason. Soon the feelings of each became known to the others, and they felt a sudden hope springing up in their minds—a hope in the power of association. Sad experience had proven to each one of that little company, that alone he could not stand. But together, shoulder to shoulder, hand to hand, and heart to heart, they felt that though the struggle would be hard, they could, and they would conquer!
               "In that moral pest house then, while inhaling with every breath the tempting fumes of the potations they loved, did this little band pledge themselves to each other, never again to drink any kind of intoxicating drink—spirits, wine, malt or cider."
               "They did not keep their pledge, of course," I said, interrupting him. "Who ever heard of a confirmed drunkard becoming a sober man? The hope for such a result has long since faded from the minds of the benevolent, and now all the efforts of temperance reformers are turned to the keeping of sober men from becoming lovers of strong drink. The drunkard will remain a drunkard to the end of his life: there is no hope for him."
               "Do not jump to conclusions quite so hastily," my friend replied. "There is hope for the drunkard, let me tell you. But hear me out patiently. These six men, soon after they had thus pledged themselves to each other, determined that they would make an effort to increase their number. They accordingly organized a society, and called it the 'Washington Temperance Society.' Then they went to some of their old companions, told them what they had done, and invited them to join their society. A few were found to break away from their bondage and unite with them. Thus their power and influence became increased. Others soon followed the example, and it was not long before the society numbered over one hundred members, each one of whom had been for years in the habit of drinking, and most of them occasionally to intoxication.
               "All this time, each member was using all his powers of reasoning and persuasion to induce his old companions to come in. Some would, on the nights of their meetings, station themselves near the grog-shops they had formerly been in the habit of visiting, and intercept those whom they knew, before they had reached the doors they were seeking. Then they would reason with them, and persuade them to come to the society; if not to join, at least to hear. In this way numbers were added. Such members as had no work, were aided as far as possible, and efforts were made to procure work for them.
               "And thus the reformation has gone on, and now 'The Washington Temperance Society' numbers several hundred members, nearly every one of whom had been in the habit of drinking to the extent of seriously marring his prospects in life. Every week they meet regularly, for the reception of new members, and for mutual encouragement. And these meetings are of a highly interesting nature. Usually, some of the members relate their experiences, and these are frequently affecting in a high degree."
               "Surely you must be drawing on your imagination. The thing surpasses belief."
               "I have not told you half. But come. Let us go to the meeting; this is the regular night."
               There was no hesitation, of course. In a few minutes we entered a large room at the corner of Hanover and Lombard streets, which we found crowded to excess, with men of all ages, mostly mechanics and working-men. We pushed our way close up to the speaker's stand, and then turned to survey the countenances of the assembly. It was a sight to move the heart. There were men, old and grey-headed, and youths scarcely eighteen, into whose very vitals had been fixed the tooth of the destroyer. Men who had been slaves, some for a long series of years, to the most degrading vice. But now they stood up as freemen, and there was scarcely a face, marred sadly as some were, that had not an expression of serious, manly determination and confidence.
               In a little while after our entrance, the preliminaries of the meeting being over, several of the members successively sively related their experiences. Sometimes these were humorous and amusing; but more frequently they portrayed scenes that touched the feelings, and often drew tears from the eyes. They were the simple unadorned histories of real life, told by the participators in them, and often with an eloquence of tone and manner that stirred the heart to its very depths.
               To give any of these now, is not my design. And so we will pass by this part of the meeting, and linger for a few moments over the scene that presented itself when the President invited all who wished to join the society to come forward and sign the pledge, which was read. It was in these words: 
                     "We whose names are annexed, desirous of forming a society for our mutual benefit, to guard against a pernicious practice, which is injurious to our health, standing and families, do pledge ourselves as gentlemen, that we will not drink any spirituous or malt liquors, wine or cider."
                  
               
               A dead silence ensued, which lasted for only a moment or two, when a slight noise was heard in a far corner of the room. Then there was a motion in the dense crowd, and presently a man was seen coming up the aisle. He was scarcely past the prime of life; but had a look of premature old age. His face was so swollen and disfigured, that the eye turned away from it involuntarily.
               "Do you think there is any use in me signing it?" he asked, as he paused at the table on which the books of the society rested, trembling from head to foot, and gazing up, appealingly, into the face of the President. There were few who looked upon the wretched being who did not feel a rising emotion of tenderness and compassion.
               "Yes I do," was the prompt and positive reply. "It is the only thing that can save you. And it will save you!"
               "O sir, do you really think so?"
               "I know so! Sign it at once, and you are a free man."
               "I will! I will!" the poor creature said, in an earnest tone, taking the pen that the Secretary held out to him, and putting, with an eager, trembling hand, his name to the pledge.
               "Abide by that and you are safe," said the President, smiling.
               "I will try," responded the man, and his tones were steadier, and had something of confidence in them; and he seemed really like a changed being, full of hope and resolution, as he turned from the table and mingled in the crowd.
               Then came another and another until forty-nine had signed the pledge.
               "Come along! We have room for another one. We must have fifty to-night," said the President, in a loud cheerful, encouraging tone. "Come along with us, and we will do you good. Who will make up the fifty?"
               For nearly five minutes the President waited, but no one came forward. Just as the pledge-book was about to be closed, there was a movement near the middle of the room, and then there came, tottering up the aisle, a feeble old man, with a head as white as snow. He seemed at least three-score and ten, for he was bent, and leaned on his staff, and his face was that of one very far advanced in years, though it was painfully disfigured by signs that none could look upon and misunderstand. He came up slowly, letting his stick fall at every step, and evidently trusting to it for support. There was a deep and breathless silence. The President, who had been talking almost incessantly for half an hour, urging, inviting, and encouraging persons to come forward, ceased his rambling address, and stepped forward a pace or two to meet the old man.
               "Let me sign—let me sign!" he said, in a low, agitated voice, and the Secretary handed him a chair, into which he sank feebly, and then took the pen that was offered him. Hurriedly, as if he feared that his resolution would fail him, did he subscribe to the pledge. As he lifted the pen, a tear fell upon his name.
               Silently he then arose, and slowly retired. His clothes were old and worn, and his coat seemed, from its appearance, to have seen almost a quarter of a century. But it was whole in every part, though patched with almost innumerable pieces, and of various shades. The few thin white locks that covered his head were smoothly combed and parted. The bosom of his shirt was clean but coarse and a white cravat was tied about his neck with a care that indicated plainly enough, as did his whole appearance, that a woman's heart had cared for him, and a woman's hand been busy about his person.
               I felt naturally, as did every one, a strong interest in this old man, and when the meeting broke up, I kept my eye upon him, and followed out close behind him. At the door I parted with my friend, as it was late and we had to go in opposite directions. The old man was but a few paces in advance of me, as I turned up Hanover street; I lingered behind, half resolved to follow him home. When he came to Market street, he crossed over and proceeded on westwardly. I was but a few paces behind him when he came to the narrow street now called Little Sharp street, mostly filled with poor and comfortless tenements, many of which are inhabited by blacks. Into this he turned, and scarcely yet determined as to what I should do, I followed closely after. It was past the hour of ten, and the night was very cold. A keen northwester was blowing, and, as I turned into this little street, the wind came rushing down with chilly violence. The old man seemed to shrink in the cold blast, as if its benumbing influence had penetrated his thin garments, and reached every part of his body. I had proceeded onwards but a few steps when a female figure darted past me, and paused at the old man's side.
               "Oh father!" said a low, anxious, trembling voice, 'where have you been? I have searched after you for more than an hour."
               The reply was made in so low a tone that I could not bear it.
               "Are you not very cold?" the daughter asked, as the two moved on, the old man leaning upon the arm of his child for support.
               "No, Kate," I could hear him say, "I am not very cold. But if you have been out for an hour, this bitter night, you must be chilled to the heart."
               Just at this moment the two passed under a lamp, and I could see that the outer dress of the young woman was very poor and thin, and that it clung to her slender form as the wind swept past her, showing that beneath this were but few comfortable garments.
               I felt the truth of what the old man said, for, although wrapped in a warm cloak, I was yet very sensible of the extreme cold. But the daughter made no reply.
               No other word was spoken, or, at least none other caught my ear. In a few minutes the two stopped before a low frame house, of but a single story, with a loft, or attic, above. In this they immediately entered, and the door was quickly closed after them.
               If I had felt an interest in the old man, I now felt a far deeper interest in that gentle being who, under such painful and trying circumstances, could cling to him as she evidently did, like a guardian angel. There was a deep-toned, unutterable tenderness in her voice, as she murmured the word "father," that moved my feelings. And there was something in her manner and carriage, obscurely seen in the feeble glimmering of the street lamp, that told of better days.
               I lingered for a minute or two, irresolute, after the door had closed upon them, and then turned away, resolved to know more about that old man and his daughter. What I subsequently learned, I will now present in the form of a simple, connected history. And if it makes the same impression upon the mind of the reader that it did upon my own, on turning the last page of the narrative, he will, even if he have said it a hundred times before, feel like saying more fervently still to the "Washingtonians," the "Jeffersonians," and others of kindred associations, "God speed you in your noble efforts!"
               
                  THE BROKEN MERCHANT.
                  Among the most prosperous young merchants of Baltimore, who engaged in a profitable trade between the years 1800 and 1810, was Wilson Hamilton. Inheriting from his father a handsome property, which was speedily doubled by his business enterprise, at his marriage at the age of thirty, he found his wealth increased so largely, by his wife's munificent portion, as to make him one of the richest men in the city. Of course, his social intercourse was with the highest class for wealth, refinement, and intelligence-- and at that time, in Baltimore, the wealthy class combined, to a remarkable extent, refinement with a high degree of intelligence.
                  Then the custom of using wines and other and stronger drinks, on almost all occasions, was generally practised, and none thought it an evil. If one gentleman called at the house of another, and liquor was not set out, it was esteemed a palpable breach of courtesy. No social circle, however select, assembled, without the accompaniment of glasses and decanters. On the dinner table of the private citizen was every day to be found wine and brandy, and all the members of his family, children and females, were in the habit of partaking freely. At weddings and funerals, and indeed on almost all occasions, the universal bottle-imp was present. Few, very few, had any fear of the consequences; and, indeed, at that time, the deplorable results that have since followed the general use of intoxicating drinks, were apparent in but rare instances. None seemed conscious of danger, or dreamed that any more evils were to be feared from the habitual use of drinking brandy or wine than from taking ordinary food.
                  Mr. Hamilton was of those who were particularly fond of a glass of generous wine. His cellar was stocked with many varieties, old and rare; not the artificial, drugged and brandied stuff that now so generally bears the name of wine, but pure and genuine—its vintage known, and its quality certain.
                  We will pass over, with these general observations, some seventeen or eighteen years of his life, from the time of his marriage until his only child, a daughter, had completed her sixteenth summer; only remarking, that, as might have been supposed, his attachment to his glass of wine had become, in that time, increased to a passion. Often and often, when he retired to his bed at night, would he be so much under its influence as to be scarcely conscious of anything. But few perceived it, for he was prudent; few imagined that the rich, respectable, and intelligent merchant was other than a sober man. During the early part of the day, his mind was clear and active; but a growing consciousness of his infirmity made him sensible that his interests would suffer if he gave any important attention to them while under the influence of wine and therefore he had ceased to enter into any important business negotiations, or to close any bargains in the after part of the day.
                  The mother of Kate Hamilton died when her only child was but ten years of age; and losing one affectionate and fondly loved parent, the little girl clung to the other with a love increased tenfold. Mr. Hamilton had almost idolized his child from her birth, and now that he was all in all to her, and she all in all to him, his love, like hers, became tenfold more intense. The best teachers were, of course, employed for little Kate, who, being of an intelligent mind, as well as of an affectionate disposition, progressed rapidly in all the varied branches of instruction. Thus carefully provided with every thing necessary for her education and accomplishments, Kate Hamilton sprung up in a few years into young, blushing womanhood, beloved, admired, and honored for her affectionate nature, beautiful person, high-toned feelings, and enlarged intelligence.
                  But, alas for her happiness! the light of rational thought and perception that dawned upon her mind at sweet six teen, revealed that which made her heart shrink and tremble with an indefinable fear.
                  She had often seen her father asleep in his great armchair, and thus pass away the evening. But the true cause of this she had never dreamed. And on some few occasions after dinner she had known him to retire to bed, and be too unwell to rise for tea. But no suspicion flashed across her mind that all was not right. Every tender sympathy of her nature was then alive for her father, but no emotion of shame for him crossed her innocent heart.
                  From this delusive dream she had a sudden and painful awaking. It was on the very day that she had attained her sixteenth birthday. A few friends dined with her father, and, as had been the custom for two years past, she presided at the table. The wine passed freely and Mr. Hamilton drank deeper than usual. The consequence was, that his mind grew obscured, and it became too evident to all present, except his daughter, that he was in the first stage of intoxication. But even she, at length, could not help noticing that her father talked strangely, and had an expression of countenance that she could not understand.
                  One of the company, who observed that Kate's eye was fixed anxiously upon her father, endeavoured to divert her mind, and draw her away into conversation. She was becoming somewhat interested, when she noticed another person at the table glance with a slight contemptuous smile towards her father, and then at one of the party who sat opposite to him.
                  The blood rushed to her face, and her lip trembled with an instant rebuke. But she controlled herself with an effort. The individual who sat near her, and who saw what was passing, made a movement to rise from the table, which was followed by the rest of the company.
                  "Stop! stop!" cried Hamilton, in a thick voice—"wait until your host moves! Fill up your glasses again, gentlemen! And you Kate (a consciousness of his real situation seeming to flash upon his mind,) you can retire now: our friends here will excuse you."
                  "O certainly, certainly, Miss Hamilton!" was instantly responded. And the poor girl glided from the room, and hurried away trembling in every nerve, and her heart beating so rapidly as to produce a feeling of suffocation. As soon as she reached her chamber, she sunk into a chair, and gave way to a passionate gush of tears. For more than an hour she sat there, in a state of dreary wretchedness, the real cause of which was dimly, and very dimly, perceptible to her mind. But from this she was aroused by a sudden and painful shock.
                  "Queer goings on in the parlor, John says," remarked one servant to another, with a low chuckling laugh, pausing near the chamber door, and unconscious that she was there.
                  "Indeed! What's the matter? Is the old fellow drunk again?"
                  "Yes, indeed! And they are making great sport of him down there."
                  "Well, I'm right down sorry," said the other, "'specially for poor Miss Kate. It will break her heart if she should find it out. John must try and get him off to bed, and then she'll never know it."
                  "But she must find it out before long. He gets tipsy two or three times a week now, and never goes to bed at night, that he isn't as full as he can stick."
                  And then the two servants, after their word of gossip, glided away to attend to their respective duties.
                  If a painter could have seen Kate, as, starting to her feet, she stood listening with breathless eagerness, her face pale as death, her lips apart, her hands raised, and her eyes fixed with a wild stare, he might have sketched a picture, that to look upon, would have made the heart shrink and tremble.
                  The servants passed to their separate duties, the words they had spoken forgotten by them in the moment after they were uttered. But upon the heart of Kate Hamilton, those words were written as with a pen of fire. The word "drunkenness" was, in her mind, associated only with the lowest earthly degradation. Long after the noise of their retreating footsteps had ceased to sound along the passages, did the poor girl stand in the position described, as if suddenly turned into stone. From this state she was aroused by footsteps on the stairs, heavy, irregular and shuffling, the footsteps of those who evidently carried a burden of considerable weight. Her door stood ajar, and as she glanced eagerly through it, she saw the body of her father, borne in the hands of a servant and two of the visitors, merchants of the first standing in the city, with whose daughters she was on terms of the closest intimacy.
                  Her first impulse was to spring forward. But she remembered the cruel words of the servants. He was drunk!—and what could she do for him? In a few minutes the visitors and servants went down stairs, and then there was the sound of many footsteps in the passage below. After this came the opening and closing of the hall door, and then all was still. The guests of the dinner party had gone.
                  With a quick hand Kate swung open her chamber door, and glided with hurrying steps along the passages that led to her father's chamber. Entering this, she closed the door after her, and fastened it; and then went up to the bed, and looked down eagerly into her father's face. It was flushed with a deep red, and seemed swollen, and his breath came heavy and labored. She had often seen him thus before, but had never dreamed that it was the result of intoxication.
                  "Father!—Father!—Father!" she said, in a tender, earnest voice, laying her hand softly upon him. But she might as well have spoken to a stone.
                  "Father!" she repeated, in a louder voice, shaking him gently.
                  But the sleeper stirred not.
                  "O Father! Dear father!" she again exclaimed in a still louder, and now trembling, choking voice, shaking him violently.
                  As well might she have called to the dead. For a moment longer she stood with a pale, agitated countenance bending over him, and then bursting into tears, sank down into a chair, covered her face with her hands, and burying both in the bed-clothes, continued to weep and sob for a long, long time. But the violence of her grief spent itself by its own power, and then there fell upon her spirits a deep, almost waveless calm, subsiding into a state of dreamy, half unconsciousness, that, in its turn, was followed by a profound slumber.
                  The dim shadows of evening were falling around as the heart-stricken girl awakened from this blessed sleep; blessed to her, because it brought forgetfulness. As she rose to her feet, the first object that met her eye was the still insensible form of the one she loved above all things upon the earth. Again she laid her hand upon him—again she called his name in the tenderest accents. But he heard her not. O, how cheerless and desolate did her heart feel as she turned away, and slowly passed from his room!
                  And now came thoughts of duty. Young as she was, she felt that she must control her feelings; that she must hide from other eyes all evidences of the canker-worm in her heart. Not even the domestics must know that the truth had been discovered to her. Descending to the parlor, she seated herself near the window, and there dwelt upon the only thoughts that could find a place in her mind; thoughts of her father and his degradation. But when the servant came in with lights, and it became necessary to give some directions, she did so with a calmness that surprised even herself. It would have required a close observer, indeed, to have detected, in the tone of her voice that within was wretchedness the most profound Her face she could not so easily school, and it was therefore partly turned away.
                  Frequently through the evening did Kate go up to her father's room, and endeavour to awake him, but in vain And at ten o'clock she sought her own pillow with a sadder heart than had ever throbbed in her bosom; sadder far than it was when she parted with the mother she had loved with a most tender and intense affection.
                  In the morning when she came down, she found her father in the parlor reading the newspaper. He did not look up as she entered, and she felt glad that he did not do so, for she dreaded to meet his eye, or hear his voice, now that she knew that he was perfectly in his rational mind. It was the feeling of the child that shrunk from perceiving in a parent the first evidence of conscious self-abasement.
                  When breakfast was announced, both proceeded to the dining-room without uttering a word, and the meal passed in the most profound, thoughtful, oppressive silence; for Mr. H. had a painful consciousness, he hardly knew why, that Kate had perceived the truth. How could a parent, who loved his beautiful, innocent child as Wilson Hamilton really loved, nay, almost idolized his Kate, ever again touch the maddening poison that could thus put between them a feeling of shame, and a feeling of sorrow, whose poignancy cannot be told in words? Alas! who knows the subtle enticements of the circean draught but he who has heard the voice of the syrens. The wine was placed on the dinner-table as usual, and as usual Mr. Hamilton drank of it freely, but not to intoxication
                  When Kate next went into company, it was with new feelings. Nowhere, nor in any scenes, did she find the same unalloyed pleasure that had heretofore been her constant attendant. If, for a few moments, the bright attractions which ever present themselves before the minds of the young and ardent, would win her away into delightful anticipations, a single dark thought would call her back and an inwardly breathed sigh attest the sad truth, that for her, indeed, had become changed the hues of all things earthly. Some noticed the change, but dreamed not of the painful cause. The more subdued and thoughtful tone of her mind, and its corresponding effect in her manner, were noted as one of the phenomena, unaccounted for by the mass, which result from a young and happy creature's first introduction into the world of men and women, where each acts and reacts upon others in a thousand different forms.
                  Young, beautiful, accomplished, and the daughter of one of the most wealthy merchants in the city, it is not to be supposed that Kate Hamilton would long remain without a suitor for her hand. Among those who sought her favor, was a young man named Bailey, the son of a merchant, who, like her father, was rich. He was of attractive person and manners, liberally educated, and associated, though but just of age, with his father in business. Of all who had visited her, this young man won most deeply upon her feelings, which, touched as they were by the condition of a parent most dearly loved, were of a tender and confiding character. At the time his attentions became particular, Kate was about eighteen, two years having passed since she made the discovery—a fearful one to her—of her father's strange propensity. How far this young man was worthy of her, and how far she was reposing upon a just hope in leaning upon his apparent affection, will appear from the following conversation which took place between him and his father, on the occasion of young Bailey's declaring his wish to address Miss Hamilton.
                  "I don't know about that, James. I am a little afraid of Hamilton."
                  "Why so, father?" asked the young man, with something of concern in the tone of his voice.
                  "Do you know that he drinks rather hard?"
                  "No; and I cannot believe it."
                  "Seeing is believing, they say," was the sententious reply.
                  "What do you mean, father?"
                  "Why, I mean that I have seen him drunk myself."
                  "You have?"
                  "Yes, I have; and more than once. And what is worse, he drinks deeper and deeper. It's my candid opinion that he hasn't gone to bed perfectly sober a single time for the last five years."
                  "But what has that to do with Kate, father?"
                  "Humph! A strange question for a young man like you to ask, truly! I will tell you what it has to do with her: If her father goes on as he has been going on for the last six months, he will not be worth a stiver in two years."
                  "How so?"
                  "Why, he is not himself one half of his time, and therefore does a very unsafe business. Fifty thousand dollars will not cover his losses in the past six months, and all from the miserably blind speculations into which he has entered. Formerly he was one of the shrewdest merchants in the city. Then he never made a bad operation; now he rarely makes a good one. The reason is obvious: He drinks too freely. For the past five years, you could never transact business with him after dinner, because he knew that he was in an unfit state to do any thing judiciously. But now, he is all the while in that unfit state, and every thing with him is in confusion."
                  "Poor Kate!" the young man said, sympathizingly.
                  "Yes, I pity the girl, too, for she is handsome and intelligent, and I have no doubt would make you a good enough wife. But I rather think you had better look somewhere else."
                  "But perhaps he would settle something on her."
                  
                  "Not he. He's as proud as Lucifer, and if he were approached on that point, would be roused at once. No, no James. You had better turn your thoughts somewhere else."
                  "But there is no one whom I like so well."
                  "Oh! as to that, liking comes natural enough after you are married. There is—'s daughter. Why don't you go and see her?"
                  "Because I don't like her.
                  "But her father is the richest merchant in the city: and she is his only child"
                  "I know. But I can never choose her."
                  "Well; there is old L—'s daughter Angeline. Try her."
                  "I can't do it, father
                  "You are too particular by half, James. I am afraid you are a little weak in this matter; and have got a notion in your head that there must be a deal of red-hot love in the question. Red-hot nonsense!"
                  "Well, perhaps I am a little weak that way; but I can't help it. Kate Hamilton is the sweetest girl in the town, that's clear. And I don't see but we shall have money enough, even if her father should go to the wall, which I hope will not be the case."
                  "Don't flatter yourself, boy," the old man said, with rather a severe expression of countenance. "He will go to the wall, that's clear. He's a confirmed drunkard—that's the plain A, B, C, of it, and there's no hope for him! Who ever heard of a reclaimed drunkard? I have lived some fifty years now, and I am sure I never have, nor any body else, I presume. No, no, James; poverty and degradation await Wilson Hamilton, and no human power can save him. And let me tell you, that with my consent, you never unite your fortunes with his. Once his son-in-law, and you become involved in his business when the pinch comes, and when he falls, you will fall with him."
                  "There is something in that, certainly," the young man replied in a thoughtful tone. "And it behooves me to pause and consider well what I do"
                  "That it does, my boy! spoken like the son of your father. Look before you leap, has always been my motto, and I have thus far kept out of the thornbushes."
                  Still, James Bailey, when he made the effort to keep away from Kate, found that his feelings were involved far more than he had supposed. The trial was exceedingly painful, and, therefore, he determined that he would at least permit himself the gratification of being in her company frequently; and so he continued a regular visitor.
                  The description which his father had given of Mr. Hamilton's habits, must suffice for the reader. It was, alas! too true. The consequence was, as intimated, that his business was fast falling into confusion, and his losses were frequent and heavy. But none of these had the effect to make him give up, in any degree, the active cause. They only soured his mind, and deranged the true business perceptions that were left. Poor Kate was now the constant witness of her father's degradation. Rarely a day passed that he did not drink so deeply as to confuse his ideas, and there was scarcely a night that he did not go reeling, or have to be carried, in a state of insensibility, to bed.
                  About this time an important rise in the price of cotton was anticipated, and a few capitalists in various cities commenced purchasing and storing considerable quantities. Among others, Mr. Hamilton invested largely, buying, and giving his notes, with a recklessness as to the aggregate amount, that could only be accounted for from the fact that he was not one half of his time, really in his right mind. The effect of such a proceeding was, of course, to run prices up, and Hamilton continued to purchase at the most advanced rates. Then came a pause in the market—a slight evidence of fluctuation, and the price fell half a cent. The wise ones sold immediately. But many, Hamilton among the rest, held on. The price "he knew would go up." He "would not sell for an advance of three cents per pound." But it went down, down, down, falling in the course of three months from twenty to ten cents per pound; and when Mr. Hamilton was compelled to sell, he was loser by one hundred thousand dollars. He could not meet all the engagements that he had entered into, and, of course, was compelled to make an assignment ment of his whole property—to become that dreaded thing a BROKEN MERCHANT. This nearly maddened, instead of sobering him, and caused him to drink deeper and deeper. For a week after he had passed over his property into the hands of trustees, he was almost constantly in a state of insensibility.
                  When this distressing event occurred, Kate was only at the tender age of nineteen, but wise, from suffering, far beyond her years. Only the evening before the failure of her father had Mr. Bailey called upon her, and sat with her until a late hour. In his conversation, and in his voice, during the time, were often words and tones that fell upon her heart with a peculiar and sweet melody, stirring thoughts and feelings of tenderness and affection. In his "good night," and in the parting pressure of his hand, were a language that she interpreted, to her own heart, and that caused it to tremble with delightful emotions.
                  Only once again did she look upon his face; only once again did she hear the sound of his voice. Her father's failure decided the question in his mind. He could not wed a portionless girl.
                  From the wreck of a large estate, the trustees, after settling every claim against it, and deducting their own fees for the management, paid over to Mr. Hamilton the meagre remnant of five thousand dollars. This sum, with the splendid furniture of his large mansion, was all that was left him at the age of fifty. A great portion of the latter was sold, and with his daughter, he sank at once into obscurity.
                  A new business was commenced on the small capital that he could command, but this soon became involved, as a natural consequence arising out of his unchanged habits. Two years after, he failed a second time, and what was worse, was considerably in debt, after every thing had been swept from him. Not only were the goods in his store taken, but the furniture of his dwelling shared the same fate, and with his child, he was left with the most scanty household articles, merely such as are protected by the laws of Maryland from the creditor. But the evil stopped not here. One of the creditors, more selfish and cruel than the rest, persecuted him still further, and to run the full cup over, had him arrested, after a suit and the rendition of judgment, and carried to jail. This occurred a few weeks after every thing had been taken from them. He had carefully concealed from Kate this danger that was lurking in his way, and when arrested, she had no intimation of it.
                  "Come back soon, father," she said, laying her hand tenderly upon his arm, as he was about leaving on that afternoon, while the tears came into her eyes. "Every thing is so dreary and desolate here"—and she glanced around the room, that was dismantled of nearly every article except a single table, and four common chairs. Carpets, looking-glasses, mahogany tables, sofas; in a word, everything but the articles named had been seized and carried off by the rapacious creditors, some of whom, could every heart wrung tear of that innocent girl been changed to a diamond, would have tortured her until the last farthing owed to them by her father had been paid.
                  "I shall be home soon," the old man replied, as he was closing the door after him.
                  Hour after hour the lonely girl sat near a window, leaning her head upon her hand; sometimes giving way to tears, and sometimes brooding with dark and desponding feelings over a condition that seemed almost bereft of hope. What distressed her most of all was the infatuation of her father. She felt that he would now sink lower and lower; and that, be his condition what it might, she must and would cling to him. Already had she begun to ponder on the means by which the labor of her hands could be made to support them both; but on this subject she thought and thought in vain.
                  "What can I do? What shall I do?" she said, after musing long, in an entire abstraction of thought from all things external. The sound of her own voice aroused her, and she perceived that the twilight was falling dimly around.
                  "Why does he stay so late?" she said, rising and looking out into the street. Then she turned away, and after lighting a lamp, proceeded to prepare the evening meal. Since the seizure and sale of their furniture, she had retained no domestic, performing all the duties required with her own hands, all unused as they were to toil.
                  The supper ready, she waited long in painful anxiety, but her father came not. Hour after hour passed, but she looked and listened in vain for some sign of his coming. How, or where to seek him, she knew not; for when she thought of doing so, it was past the hour of eleven. Seating herself by the window, she remained looking out into the street, and listening anxiously to every footstep that approached, until long after midnight. Then, as all hope of his return before morning faded from her mind, she rested her arms upon the table near which she sat, and burying her head in them, she sunk into a troubled sleep. When she awoke from this, the broad light of day was streaming into the room.
                  Starting to her feet, her first impulse, after the full return of consciousness, was to go out and seek for her father.
                  "But, where shall I go?"
                  This was a question that she could not answer, though she thought of it long and anxiously; for she had not the most remote idea what could keep him away.
                  "I will wait for an hour or two," she at length said—"by that time he will either come home, or I shall hear from him."
                  In this state of most distressing uncertainty, she remained until nearly nine o'clock, when she could bear it no longer. As she was just passing from the door, to seek for him, she knew not how or where, a rough looking, hard-featured man stepped up to her, and said—
                  "Is this where Mr. Hamilton lives?"
                  "Yes, sir. What of him? Where is he?" was the eager response.
                  "He asked me last night to hand you this;" the man said, producing a letter, which Kate grasped as he reached it to her, and broke the seal with hasty but trembling hands. As she did so, the man turned away, and left her The letter, or brief note rather, read thus:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "Baltimore Jail.
                              
                              "DEAR KATE:—The harpies have done their worst at last. On leaving the house this afternoon, I was arrested for debt, and sent here. But do not, my dear child, let it break down your spirits, already well-nigh crushed to the earth. Hope for the best, and if you can feel like coming to this dreadful place, I should like very much to see you."
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  There was no hesitation, no lingering on the part of Kate. The moment she had finished reading the note, she placed it in her bosom, and hurriedly leaving the house, bent her steps towards the city prison. The girl's wild and disordered look, as she hastened along the street, attracted many eyes, but she saw nothing, heard nothing—not even the remark of one who had known her, and been a companion—
                  "As I live, that was Kate Hamilton!"
                  "Ah, indeed!" was the reply of the individual to whom this was addressed, made in a tone half indifferent—"The daughter of old Hamilton, who failed about two years ago?"
                  "The same, and a sweet girl Kate was. I have never seen her before since she left our circles. What can be the matter with her now? Where can she be going? Poor thing! I am afraid, from her look, that she has become lost to virtue."
                  "Most likely," was the cruel rejoinder—cruel, could it have reached the ear of the unfortunate subject, but falling harmless where it was uttered.
                  "I am told," pursued the other, "that her father has become a common drunkard, and has been frequently seen, of late, reeling about the streets in a state of intoxication. What a sad trial it must have been to Kate! But I suppose she is past that now. Ah me! it makes me sad to think of it."
                  While these remarks were passing, the subject of them was hurrying on her way, with but a single painful idea in her mind—the idea of her father, imprisoned. A walk of some twenty-five minutes brought her to the outer gate of the gloomy building.
                  "Can I see Mr. Hamilton?" she asked with a hurried and agitated voice.
                  "I really can't say, Miss," replied the gate-keeper, in a careless tone. "Who is he, or what is he?"
                  To this strange question the daughter could not reply, for she did not understand its import, and she stood looking into the man's face with a bewildered air.
                  "What is he in for? murder, stealing, or debt?" the gate-keeper now asked in a quiet, unfeeling tone, returning the earnest look of Kate with a bold stare.
                  The blood mounted to the neck, face, and temples of the daughter, as she replied, with something of indignation in her voice—
                  "He is in for debt, sir."
                  "Oh, well. You can see him then, if you wish,"—and the gate-keeper turned the key. The large iron gate was swung slowly open, and Kate passed through. As it closed with a loud clanking sound, the heart of the poor girl almost ceased its pulsations. Her limbs became feeble and unsteady, as she attempted to ascend the long acclivity and many steps that led to the prison. A dimness came over her eyes, and a faintness and languor spread through her whole frame. But one thought of her father—one impulse of pure affection—aroused her again, and she proceeded on with a slow but steady pace. On reaching the main entrance to the building she encountered some two or three of the turnkeys, who were lounging about that part of the jail. All eyes were instantly turned upon her, as she shrunk impulsively from each unfeeling glance. But a sense of duty aroused her, and the thought of her father dispelled every feeling of weakness.
                  "I wish to see Mr. Hamilton," she said.
                  "A debtor?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "Come this way."—
                  And she followed the speaker until both stood in front of a large iron-grated gateway, or door, opening into a long spacious hall, from each side of which went off the entrances to the different debtor's apartments. As they paused here, the turnkey called out in a loud voice,
                  "Hamilton!"
                  "Hamilton!" responded a prisoner who was lingering in the large hall, or main avenue, just mentioned, and in a few minutes the old man emerged from one of the rooms, and came forward with a slow and feeble step. As he reached the iron door, Kate extended a hand between the bars and said, bursting at the same time into tears—
                  "Oh my father! my dear father!"
                  "My dear child! Do not give way so!"—sobbed the old man while the tears gushed, at the same time, from his own eyes.
                  The turnkey, who had lingered a moment, although used to such scenes, felt touched, and moved away.
                  "Who has done this, father?" Kate soon found herself composed enough to ask. "Tell me, and I will go to him. He cannot be unmoved by the petition of a child for her father."
                  "He is a hard-hearted man, my child, and I am sure will not hear you."
                  "Yes, father, he will hear me, he must hear me. Who is it? Tell me!"
                  "Old Mr. Bailey is the man; and he has never been known to forgive a debtor."
                  "Surely it cannot be Mr. Bailey!" Kate said, in a low tone of sad surprise—"Oh no, it cannot be he! Or, perhaps he knows nothing of the extremity to which you have been driven. Perhaps he does not know that you are here."
                  The old man shook his head, mournfully.
                  "He knows it but too well, Kate."
                  "But I will go to him, father. He cannot, he shall not put me off."
                  "You can go, child. But I fear the effort will be in vain."
                  "How much do you owe him?"
                  "Over two hundred dollars."
                  
                  Again the true hearted child extended her hand, through the iron bars that imprisoned the dear object of her solicitude, and grasped with a strong pressure the hand of her father.
                  "I will be back again soon, dear father." she said, trying to assume a cheerful voice—"And I feel confident that I shall bring you good news."
                  "I fear not. But still I will hope. And may heaven bless you, my child!" the prisoner uttered fervently.
                  "Be of good cheer!" and as the daughter said this, she pressed, again, affectionately, the hand that was held in hers, and then turning away, glided swiftly out of the prison.
                  Once beyond the walls of that gloomy abode, the first serious thoughts of the duty she had imposed upon herself, came up in her mind with painful distinctness. Mr. Bailey, the father of him who had won her heart, and whose image still lived in her memory, a dear and cherished thing, was the man whose selfishness and inhumanity had thrown her own father into prison, and to him she must go, and sue for mercy. The very thought made her feel sick and faint. Since James Bailey had parted from her more than two years before, with a warmth and tenderness in his manner even unusual for him, she had neither heard his voice nor seen his face. The fear of encountering him, therefore, made her shrink from her duty with an inconceivably painful reluctance. But that duty could not be shunned, and she went onwards in the performance of it, with something of the same feeling with which it may be supposed the martyrs of old went up to the stake.
                  It was about eleven o'clock, on the same morning, that James Bailey turned his head away from the desk at which he was sitting, to glance towards the door of the counting room, and observe who it was that had swung it open. The visitor was a neatly dressed young woman, but her head was partly turned from him, so that he could not see her face. She closed the door after her quietly, and then moved towards the part of the room where old Mr. Bailey sat before a table, covered with papers and packages. Here she paused, and the old man looked up into her face with a severe, frowning scrutiny In vain did the visitor essay to speak her errand. Her tongue seemed paralysed, and refused to perform its office.
                  "Well, what do you want, young woman?" Mr. Bailey inquired in a rough voice, and with a coarse, familiar manner.
                  "My—my—my name is Kate Hamilton," stammered out the poor girl, whose heart fluttered in her bosom like a newly caged bird.
                  "Kate Hamilton!" ejaculated the old man, instantly rising to his feet, his whole manner becoming changed and excited. "And pray, Miss, what is your business with me?"
                  "My father"—was all that Kate could utter.
                  "Is in jail, and shall rot there!" exclaimed Mr. Bailey still more excited as the interview proceeded.
                  "O, sir, do not say so," the daughter urged, her voice becoming calmer, and her self-possession beginning to return. "Remember that my father is old and poor. Keeping him in jail cannot pay the debt. The only hope for that, is in releasing him."
                  "Ha! ha!—And a precious hope that would be! No—no.—He wilfully neglected his business, and, in consequence, cheated me out of more than two hundred dollars, and he shall be made an example of for the good of society. So go home, girl, and make yourself easy about it. My mind is made up. He shall die in jail—the drunken vagabond!"
                  Anger with Mr. Bailey was a species of intoxication, and under its influence, like others under the influence of wine, he said things that in sober moments he would not have uttered. But his last bitter sentence was not, for this, any the less wounding to the feelings of Miss Hamilton. In spite of her strong effort at self-control, this cruel remark so touched her, that she hid her face in her hands, and wept and sobbed for a few moments passionately. From this she was aroused by the remark—
                  
                  "You needn't suppose, Miss, that your tears can have any effect upon me. I have seen too many in my day And now, I advise you to go home, and let this matter rest. Your father is a thousand times better off in jail than if he were out."
                  "I cannot go, sir," Kate now said, looking up, and endeavoring to dry her tears—"until you have consented to release my father."
                  "Go home, girl!"
                  "Let me implore you, sir. Remember what he once was. Remember the former condition of her who now pleads with you. Think how wrong her spirit must be, and let those tears urge you. O, sir, do not thus harden your heart!"
                  "Go out of this office, I tell you!"
                  "O, sir, my father cannot stay there! Look at me! Here, I plead for him thus (sinking on her knees, and clasping her hands together.) O, sir, hear me!—hear me!" and her voice sunk into a low, choking sob.
                  "Away! I will not hear you!" the old man said in a voice loud and furious.
                  Then advancing towards her, he lifted her strongly by one arm to her feet—led her to the door—opened it, thrust her out, closed it, and then returned to his seat, and commenced poring over his papers. But little, however, of their sense was apparent to his mind. As he did so his son turned from his desk, and went out through the back door of the counting-room.
                  Mechanically Kate Hamilton turned away from the merchant's counting-room, and moved along the pavement, scarcely conscious of her own identity. Her mind was bewildered, and her thoughts confused. From this dreamy state of obscurity and wretchedness, she was startled by the sound of a voice close to her ear—an old familiar voice, to which, even in memory, her heart had ever echoed with a quickened pulsation.
                  "Miss Hamilton!"
                  She paused and turned quickly. It was James Bailey who stood by her side.
                  "Take this," he said—"tell no one where it came from And may God in heaven bless you!"
                  Thus saying, in an agitated tone, he slipped a small piece of paper into her hand, and turning away, glided at once from her sight.
                  The whole scene passed so quickly that it seemed like a bewildering dream. But the piece of paper in her hand attested its reality. Glancing down upon it, she saw with an emotion that made the tears spring to her eyes that it was a check for two hundred and twenty-five dollars. Without a thought more, she turned her steps again towards the jail, and almost ran the whole of the way.
                  The check was for the exact amount of debt and costs, and was at once received by the warden, and old Mr. Hamilton set at liberty. This imprisonment had the effect to sober and subdue his mind. He inwardly resolved that he would drink no more. This resolution he did not communicate to his daughter. The subject of his love of drink was one to which the most remote allusion had never been made by one to the other. Neither could speak of it—the father nor the child. But she saw in a day or two that there had occurred a change, and her heart trembled in her bosom with a new hope. As the house in which they lived could not be retained, on account of the high rent, and because they had no furniture to put into it, a new home was sought. Far in the suburbs, a very small house was obtained at the low rent of five dollars a month, and into this, the once wealthy merchant and his beautiful and accomplished daughter, removed. No servant could, of course, be employed, for there were no means with which to pay one, and indeed, little prospect of even the barest necessaries of life. All the work of the house, even the washing and ironing, as well as the cooking, fell upon Kate.
                  In the second week after their removal to this new home, if a home it could be called, and when both began to despond as to the means of obtaining the simplest necessaries of life, a storekeeper in Franklin street, who had at one time bought largely of Mr. Hamilton, and who had always felt a regard for him, that his misconduct could not entirely extinguish, offered him a situation in his store at four hundred dollars a year. This was gladly accepted. And now there was a glimmering of light upon the gloomy path of his child. Every night her father came home sober, and brought her each week the full amount of wages that he received. In their new condition, their wants were few, and some eight dollars each week supplied them all.
                  One evening, about three months after this happy change, Kate sat waiting for her father's return, with a feeling of unusual cheerfulness. She heard his hand at last upon the latch, and rose to her feet to meet him with a smiling welcome. But a single glance at his face, sufficed to tell the fatal truth, that he had again been drinking—this, his unsteady step confirmed, and her heart sank like lead in her bosom. No word was uttered by either. The meal passed in painful and oppressive silence, and after it was over, Mr. Hamilton took his hat and went out. It was after nine o'clock when he returned, in a state of reeling intoxication, and sought his bed. In the morning he went, as usual, to the store in which he was employed. At dinner time, it was plainly evident to the quick eye of his daughter, that he had again been drinking; and at night he could scarcely walk straight when he came in. After supper he went out again, and staid until late, and then returned as he had the evening before, and went reeling and stumbling up to his bed. When Saturday night came, he gave Kate but four dollars, instead of eight. She received it without any remark upon the smallness of the sum, and he gave it to her without any reason for the diminution. But oh, how sad, and wretched, and hopeless she felt!
                  Two months after he became so utterly unfit to be trusted, from incapacity, that he was discharged from his situation. When this fact became known to his daughter, she endeavored to nerve herself up for severer trials. Though bent, and swayed, and bruised by the storm, her spirits were not altogether broken. There had been time enough for reflection since the utter ruin of their worldly prospects, and during that time she had not been entirely unthoughtful as to what course she would have to pursue should her father entirely abandon himself to drink. Her pure, deep, unselfish love for him was the guide to her decision—a decision not in words, nor even, in her mind, in the form of words; but in the perception of her duty, flowing from the very love she bore him. That decision was a resolution (not, as has just been said, made in a form of words, even mentally spoken,) never to leave him while she had life; to devote herself to him, and to take care of him through all the grades of human suffering through which she might have to pass; to die with him and for him, if she should be reduced to that extremity.
                  Such an instinctive resolution, when the time came for action, made her more thoughtful, and prompted her to cast about in her mind for the probable means of a support for them both. But here she found herself in a difficulty that seemed almost insurmountable. What could she do? How could she earn money? For herself, if there were none but herself to care for, she could readily perceive that it would be no hard matter to enter some family, and make herself useful in various ways, thus securing a home both comfortable and respectable. But under the circumstances in which she found herself placed, this was now out of the question. Her father needed, and would need more and more, her care and attention. Without her hands to provide for and minister to his wants, he must sink into a state the bare idea of which made her heart sick.
                  It then became absolutely necessary that she should seek some employment by which she could earn money. While pondering this subject in her mind, a plan presented itself which she proceeded at once to adopt.
                  In one of the humble tenements near that in which she lived with her father, resided a widow, who, by her own exertions, supported herself and three small children. This woman, whose name was Erwin, had seen her own ups and downs in life, and being of a kind, benevolent turn of mind, had naturally a feeling of sympathy for Kate in her lonely condition. Very frequently she would drop in during an afternoon, and spend a little while in cheerful conversation. She was not herself a murmurer and as Kate never alluded, even remotely, to her father's conduct, nor to her own painful feelings, these interviews were always pleasant. Gradually she began to have a tender regard for Mrs. Erwin, and to feel that her society was becoming more necessary to her. And especially did the fact that Mrs. Erwin could, by the labor of her own hands, support herself and children, encourage her to think that she might be equally successful.
                  A few days after her father had lost her situation, Kate called in to see Mrs. Erwin, for the purpose of making a few inquiries as to how she must proceed to get some kind of work.
                  "What is this you are doing, Mrs. Erwin?" she asked, lifting from the table the upper part of a shoe lined and bound.
                  "Binding shoes," Mrs. Erwin replied.
                  "Is it easy work!" Kate proceeded to ask.
                  "It is not very easy; but it is simple, and after you get used to it you can do very well at it."
                  "How much do you make at this kind of work?"
                  "Some two or three dollars a week—and even four, if I had nothing else to do."
                  "Can you get as much of it to do as you wish?"
                  "O yes."
                  Then came a pause, during which Kate was pondering whether the next question she wished above all to have answered, should be asked. At last she said, and her voice trembled—
                  "Do you think I could get any of it to do, Mrs. Erwin?"
                  "You, child? Why yes, I suppose so. That is if you know how to close and bind pretty well."
                  "But I don't know anything about it. Still, don't you think I might learn?"
                  "Certainly, child. And if you wish to learn, it will give me the greatest pleasure in the world to teach you."
                  "You are very kind, Mrs. Erwin," was Kate's simple, heart-felt acknowledgment.
                  And if, in anything else I can aid you, Miss Hamilton," continued the warm hearted woman, "speak it out freely. I never think it a trouble to help another all that is in my power."
                  "Will you show me now?" asked Kate.
                  "Certainly."
                  And Mrs. Erwin proceeded to give her instructions in the humble art and mystery of closing and binding shoes. Her anxious desire to learn made the task an easy one, and before she rose up to return home she had performed the whole operation of closing and binding two pairs of ladies' shoes.
                  "Do you think they will do, Mrs. Erwin?" she asked earnestly.
                  "Yes, indeed! You have done them beautifully."
                  "And the next question is, do you think I can get work at once?"
                  "I should think so, Miss Hamilton. At any rate, I will speak for you this very afternoon. I have to go down town, and can do it for you just as well as not."
                  Mrs. Erwin was as good as her word. When she returned from her errand "down town," she brought a dozen pairs of shoes for Kate, which were received by her with emotions of heartfelt gratitude.
                  "What have you got here?" asked her father, coming in half an hour after, a good deal under the influence of liquor.
                  "Only some shoes to bind," Kate said, and her heart trembled as she felt that what she was doing was a keen rebuke to him, and might be so construed.
                  "And what are you doing with shoes to bind, pray?" he proceeded.
                  "I thought I would try and do a little something, father. You know we havn't much."
                  "Do a little something?—bind shoes?—Humph! Kate Hamilton bind shoes, indeed? Is the girl crazy?"
                  "But, dear father," she said, rising to her feet, and laying her hand soothingly upon his shoulder, while she assumed a smile, "you know we are very poor, and that I ought to do all I can to lighten your burdens, for you are old, and cannot do much now. I would rather do it, father."
                  "Bind shoes?" the old man repeated, with a bewildering, indignant surprise. "Kate Hamilton bind shoes for a living? The thing is preposterous! No—no—put them away, Kate. We shall be rich again; I know we shall."
                  To humor her father Kate did put the shoes away, but as he soon fell into a state of half stupefaction, she took a single one in her hand, and sat down near the window, with her back towards him, and went on with her work. After supper he went out, as was now his almost constant habit, and she was left alone to continue her humble employment.
                  But he never after attempted to interfere with her, in this or in anything else that she chose to do. By the most unremitting labor Kate now managed to earn from three to four dollars a week, nearly all of which it took to procure food and fuel, and pay the rent. As for her own clothing, she still had a good deal of her former stock left, and by much attention to her father's garments she made out to keep him tolerably respectable in appearance. Thus she went on, for the long period of about ten years, during which time her father had become more and more degraded; not, however, without having made several efforts to reform himself, but without any permanent effect, and always sinking lower after every such struggle. The ardent thirst for liquor which was constantly upon him, caused him to resort to every means that suggested itself for earning a little money, that this desire might be gratified. The last of these, and the employment at which he had been engaged for more than a year prior to the time when we again introduce him to the reader, was that of turning a wheel. For this, a duty that he could perform as well when half intoxicated as when sober, he received three dollars a week, every cent of which was spent in drink. As the turning shop in which he thus worked was near the centre of the city, Kate removed with him to a hovel, in Little Sharp near Fayette street, that had formerly been occupied by blacks. It was a mean, comfortless tenement; but it gave them shelter, and for her father's sake Kate entered it without a murmur.
                  Ten years have passed since Kate Hamilton made the first effort to earn money for the support of herself and her father, and since that time her toil has been, night and day, almost incessant. Let us look in upon her again.
                  It is night—a night in December. We find her in a small room containing a bed, and a few poor articles of furniture, such as a pine table, two or three old chairs, &c. Still, there is an air of neatness, as far as neatness can be found in such a place; but no air of comfort. A few sticks are burning on the hearth, near which she is seated, and, by the light of a dim lamp, endeavoring to sew.
                  Can that indeed be Kate Hamilton? Alas! that such a change should ever pass upon a child of earth. How thin and pale her face! how attenuated her whole frame! How large, and bright, and almost unearthly in its expression, is her dark eye! And her lips are compressed painfully together, and colorless. See her pause now, and press her hand to her side, while an expression of weariness and pain settles upon every feature of her face. Hark to that hollow, resounding, racking cough, and see how her whole frame is convulsed! Alas! alas! poor martyr to filial affection, the grave is surely almost ready for thee—and sweeter there will be thy sleep than any that has locked up thy senses for many, many weary years.
                  Thus as we have seen her, did she toil on, sometimes pausing wearily, and resting her head upon the little work-stand before her—sometimes holding her hand hard against her side, as if suffering acute pain, and sometimes giving way to a convulsive fit of coughing. As the evening passed on, the fire sunk lower upon the hearth, but instead of replenishing it, she only drew nearer and nearer. But she was evidently chilled, for a slight shudder would ever and anon run through her frame.
                  
                  It was nearly ten o'clock, when she put by her work. Having done this, she took from a closet her bonnet, and a thin, faded shawl, which she wrapped around her shoulders, and then passed out into the dark, narrow, deserted street. The night was very cold, and the wind penetrated her thin garments, and caused her to shrink shivering in the wintry blast. But she seemed not to heed this, as she directed her footsteps hurriedly towards Fayette street, on emerging into which she passed along, until she came to Park street, up which she steadily pursued her way. Just before she came to Lexington street, she turned into one of the low taverns, or grog-shops which then existed in that part of the street, and perhaps exist there still.
                  "Is father here?" she said to the keeper of the house, not perceiving him she sought.
                  "No, he is not!" was the gruff reply.
                  "No, dear—he's not here"—half sung a drunken man, reeling towards her, with an air of familiarity, that caused her to turn and glide hurriedly away.
                  "Stop! stop!" he cried after her, opening quickly the door that she had closed. But his pursuit was only a feigned one.
                  Poor Kate trembled in every limb, as she retraced her steps down Park street, until she came to the intersection of Liberty street. There she entered a grog-shop that still stands at the corner of an alley running up to Howard street. As she did so, her eye fell upon her father, seated on a bench, and fast asleep. She went up to him, and after shaking him repeatedly, awoke him so far as to make him comprehend that she had come for him. Then he arose, mechanically, and followed her out, and walked by her side, until they had gained their humble dwelling. Here he only waited long enough to divest himself of his old, much worn and much patched coat, before he threw himself upon the bed. Ere he had done this, his daughter had turned down the clothes for him. Then she drew off his shoes, and covered him up snugly all around. As for him, he was fast asleep, almost the moment his head touched the pillow. Kate then went to the hearth, raked up the coals, threw on another stick, and resumed her work. It was nearly twelve o'clock when she laid this by, evidently more from excessive weariness, than from any wish to abate her labors. She then threw an extra quilt over her father, tucked it in all around with a careful hand, and taking up her light, ascended to the loft above. There, upon the floor, lay her humble bed. Bending meekly on her knees for a few minutes, she lifted her heart above, and prayed for more patience, and more submission under her hard lot. Then, quickly disrobing herself, she sought a few hours repose. But, for a time, even this seemed denied her, for a racking cough kept her awake for nearly an hour. Finally, she sunk away, and slept soundly until the morning.
                  When she descended to renew her daily toil, she found that her father had arisen and gone out as usual. Until his nerves were steadied by a morning draught of his accustomed stimulus, he could not handle his knife or lift a cup to his mouth. The frugal meal was ready when he returned, and he ate it in silence. How painful and oppressive that silence!—but it was only a portion of that which ever brooded over their little household. They seemed, that father and his child, like moving automata. Words rarely passed the lips of either. He came and went at stated intervals, and she ministered to his every want that it was in her power to meet, with an affectionate solicitude that showed how tenderly her heart still clung to her parent, degraded and brutalized as he was. But she could not converse with him; for there was no topic upon which they could feel a mutual interest. Indeed, his mental perceptions had all become obtuse, and the action of his mind feeble. He seemed to have but one love—that of strong drink;—and but one system of reasoning—that which considered the means by which that love could be gratified. How like a living death must have been the whole tenor of that devoted daughter's existence! Possessing a refined and cultivated taste, yet surrounded with nothing but what tended to offend that taste; educated and intelligent, yet cut off from books and society; modest and virtuous, yet compelled to seek her father, night after night, in haunts where congregated the vile and abandoned, and there to meet their insults and brave their ridicule! But she had never wavered a moment from her purpose, though more than once offered a home by some who had accidentally crossed her path, and felt and appreciated her worth and her deplorable condition. Without her constant care, that old man, her father, could not have survived, probably, a week, or, at best, would have been carried to the Almshouse. This she saw—this she felt. And her heart was strong in its filial purposes.
                  When breakfast was over, Mr. Hamilton arose and Kate rose also. She took down from a nail his old hat, the fur of which had long since disappeared, and drew, from habit, the sleeve of her dress across it. Then she took from the mantlepiece a hair-brush, and while the old man inclined his head towards her, carefully parted and smoothed the few grey hairs that still lingered, in wintry wreaths, about his aged temples. His cravat was likewise adjusted, and his old, thread-bare coat brushed. Then she placed his hat upon his head, and he turned from her and she was left alone. All this passed in silence, and seemed as if it were only mechanical. But there was, on one side at least, a feeling heart and unwavering affection.
                  On leaving the house, old Mr. Hamilton went direct to the grog-shop from which his daughter had taken him on the night before, and called for brandy and water. Of this he swallowed eagerly a quantity sufficient to make any ordinary drinker completely intoxicated. Thence he proceeded to the turner's shop where he was employed, and took his station at the wheel. It was almost impossible to believe that that old man, as he sat all through the day, turning, turning that everlasting wheel, with his thin gray hairs rising and falling with the motion of his body, was the same with the rich merchant who, not over fifteen or twenty years previous, was accounted one of the most wealthy men in the city. Then moving in the highest circle—now scoffed in the street by boys, and despised by even the chimney-sweeper; then high-minded and intelligent, now acted upon by only one degrading passion, and sinking all rational thought in the single contemplation of the means whereby to gratify his evil appetite. About every two hours he had to leave his place, and go out for his glass of brandy. This the owner of the shop had ceased to object to, for he knew that the miserable old man would not do without it. At night, when supper was over, he went out, as on the evening previous, and at ten o'clock Kate remitted her labor and sought for him in some one of the liquor stores in the neighborhood. As soon as she came in, he always rose up, if not asleep, and went home with her without uttering a word. If asleep she would rouse him, and then he would accompany her.
                  The history of one day is the history of every day that was spent by Kate and her father. But her health was fast failing her, and she felt that she could not bear up much longer. This troubled her only on her father's account. For his sake she wished to live, and only as long as he lived. Beyond that she had nothing to desire.
                  It was about a month from this time that, on glancing over a part of a newspaper, which had been wrapped around some articles bought at a neighboring grocery, her eye rested upon an article which gave a glowing account of a wonderful reformation then going on in the city—a reformation among drunkards. It stated that hundreds of men, who had been for a long series of years addicted to drinking, had joined themselves to a society, entitled "The Washington Temperance Society," and had become sober men, and that large numbers were joining the society every week. It spoke of this movement, as well it might, as a most wonderful one—embracing old and young, and those of the most confirmed habits.
                  "O, if he would only join!"—she murmured involuntarily, and a faint hope, the first that had warmed her heart for years, trembled in her bosom.
                  The paper containing the article was carefully preserved, and placed in his way, time after time, but he had lost all inclination for reading, and poor Kate's feeble hope sank at last, and expired in her bosom, as she saw him take the precious document and tear it in two, preparatory to the operation of shaving himself.
                  It was early in the month of February, some three weeks after this, that Kate found her now feeble health rapidly giving way. The pain in her side had become so intense, and the debility of her system so great, that she could not sit over her work more than an hour or so at a time. The consequence was, that her earnings were reduced to about a dollar and a half a week; and did not suffice to procure even the necessary food, much less to provide wood, and pay the rent, &c.
                  In a most sad, and gloomy state of mind, she sat one night about this time, hovering over the last few embers, made by her last stick of wood. Every cent of her money was gone; and there was, in the house, but a single loaf of bread. The night was exceedingly cold, and she had become by nine o'clock chilled through and through. Her father was out as usual, and she now arose, put on her bonnet, and drew her old thin shawl around her. She shuddered as she opened the door, and felt the keen searching blast without; but there was no avoiding—she could only brave it. She first turned her steps to the drinking house in Park near Liberty street.
                  "Is my father here?" she asked, on glancing around and not seeing him.
                  "No," was the surly answer.
                  "Has he been here to-night?"
                  "No."
                  And she turned away with a feeling of disappointment. She next sought him in another grog-shop, near Lexington street.
                  "Crazy Kate again!" ejaculated the bar-keeper, in a half sneering, half familiar tone, as she entered.
                  "Is my father here?" she asked, with a face and tone of anxiety, seeming not to heed the remark.
                  "Come in, dear, and we will see. Has old Hamilton been here to night?" he continued, speaking to a boy who sat nodding on a chair, at the same time that he lifted him by one arm and pushed him half across the room.
                  "I d'no—" replied the lad, rubbing his eyes, and glancing at the bar-keeper with a look of indignation.
                  "Go off up stairs and see if he is not asleep in one of the boxes!"
                  Then turning to the old man's daughter, he said, as he passed to her side and laid his hand impudently upon her shoulder—
                  "Well, Kate, how are you, dear?"
                  Poor Kate felt the blood mounting to her face, as she moved away from him. But she did not reply. All that she could say she felt would only subject her to more rudeness and outrage.
                  "Shy as a deer! Ha! ha! But come, Kate, try and smile a little—or pout if you will; but don't put on such an air of offended dignity. I can't bear it—ha! ha!"
                  "Stick up to her, Bill! She's only playing a little shy—" cried one of the loungers in the bar-room, rising to his feet, and coming forward.
                  "Be kind enough to say if my father is here," the poor distressed creature now said, appealingly. "If he is not, tell me, that I may go and seek him else-where."
                  "Wait a minute. Tom hasn't had time to find him yet."
                  "Stick up to her, Bill! Ha! ha! You're afraid."
                  Thus bantered the bar-keeper again approached Kate. Touching her familiarly under the chin, while she shrunk still further from him, he said.
                  "Don't be afraid, my pretty duck."
                  "Kiss her, Bill! Kiss her! You're afraid to do that."
                  "No I aint."
                  "Yes you are"
                  "See if I am."
                  And the bar-keeper again went towards the frightened girl.
                  "O sir," she said, "if you are a man, spare me these insults. If you have a mother or a sister, think of them and for their sakes do not thus outrage a poor almost heart-broken creature. Tell me whether my father be here or not. It is late, and he is very old. If he is not here, he may be perishing in the street. Let me go then quickly."
                  "Kiss her!" ejaculated one of the company.
                  "Yes, kiss her, Bill!" cried another.
                  And the mean-spirited wretch again moved towards her.
                  "For shame!" said a voice at the moment. "For shame! Let her go!" And a man who had not heretofore spoken, arose from a chair and joined the group that had now surrounded Kate.
                  "Your father is not here, Miss Hamilton, and has not been here, I believe, to-night," he said, in a tone of kindness and consideration.
                  The company looked surprised and indignant at this interference, and as each one of the group turned towards the individual who had last spoken, Kate glided from the room.
                  "I should like to know what business you have to interfere in this matter," the bar-keeper said with a frown.
                  "Because I never will stand by and see a decent woman insulted. I've got a sister; and if any man were to talk to her as some of you talked to Kate Hamilton to-night, I would pull his tongue out of his head." The face of the speaker flushed, and his tones were angry.
                  "Mighty fine," ejaculated one of the party, sneeringly. "Tom Dunn's going to turn pious."
                  "You may ridicule as much as you please," he replied, "but that don't alter the matter. My mother, while she was living," and his voice slightly trembled, "has looked me up many a time, just as that girl is now looking up her father, and bad as I was, and am, I never did, and never can, feel anything but respect and consideration for that woman, mother, sister, wife, or daughter, who thus consents to enter a place like this in search of a beloved object. Kate Hamilton, let me tell you, is no common girl. Her father was, at one time, among the richest of our merchants, and she then moved in the first circles; and was beloved, I have been told, and admired by all. Think, then, what must be her feelings now, dragged down, as she has been, in clinging to her father, and compelled to enter a place like this, on such an errand as that which brought her here. Think of it, I say, and never again offer her an insult!"
                  There was something in the tone, manner, and words of the speaker that subdued the feelings of those he addressed, debased as they were, and they did not attempt to reply. The individual who had spoken, observing the effect of his words, turned away and resumed the newspaper and glass of punch that had occupied his attention before Kate Hamilton came in.
                  Meantime the anxious daughter turned away from the door of the grog-shop, murmuring,
                  "Where can he be?"
                  The wind came rushing down the street, and penetrated her thin garments, but she paused only a moment, and then turned up the street, pursuing her way steadily until she turned into Wagon alley. A few doors from the corner stood a liquor store, the vile haunt of characters the most degraded and abandoned. Several times she had traced her father to this place, and again, with an instinctive reluctance, did she lift the latch and enter. As she passed up to the counter, she said to the woman who kept the shop, in a low, agitated tone.
                  "Has Mr. Hamilton been here to-night?"
                  "No, he has not!" was answered in a loud voice. "And he'd better not venture here again, the old vagabond! See here!" pointing to sundry chalk marks on a board, "there's a score against him of a dollar, and he hasn't showed his face here for a month, the old cheat! And you can just tell him, Miss, that I'll have the constable after him, so I will! The drunken old rascal!"
                  As the landlady went on, her wrath increased, and her words came thicker and faster. But Kate turned from the counter, and passing from the shop, was soon beyond the sound of the woman's voice.
                  "Oh, it is dreadful!" she murmured, as she regained the street, and paused a few moments to collect her scattered thoughts. Then she went on again, pursuing her search from shop to shop, and from cellar to cellar, until she had been to every drinking house and cellar in the whole neighborhood. But he was in none of them; and all put her off with the short reply, that they "didn't know any thing about him," and some added, "nor didn't care either."
                  With a troubled heart she returned home, the feeble hope in her mind that he might be there. But that idea was speedily dispelled. All was as still and as desolate there as when she had gone out. Here she lingered but for a few moments, every fear becoming aroused for the safety of her parent. He was old and feeble, and now she remembered, or thought she remembered, something unusual in his manner at supper-time. Again she went out, but where to look for him, or where to direct her steps, she knew not For more than half an hour she walked around and around the squares, in the vain hope of meeting him, and even ventured a second time into some of his accustomed haunts, only to receive a cruel rebuff.
                  Almost distracted in mind she was crossing Market street, on her way home again, when she saw him turn into Little Sharp street. Quick as thought she darted forward and drew up to the old man's side.
                  "O father!" she said, in a low, anxious, trembling tone; "Where have you been? I have searched after you for more than hour."
                  "You have found me now, Kate," was his only reply, but the tone was different, and there was more of real affection in it than had greeted her ear for a long, long time.
                  "Are you not very cold?" she asked, as he leaned upon her arm.
                  "No, Kate," he said tenderly, "I am not very cold But if you have been out for an hour this bitter night you must be chilled to the heart."
                  In a few moments they gained their cheerless home, and as the door closed upon them, the old man took both of the hands of his child in his own, and while the tears started from his eyes, said—
                  "Kate, my dear, good girl, I have cheering news to tell you. I have signed the pledge of the Washingtonians to-night."
                  "O father!" the almost heart-broken creature exclaimed, looking up into his face with a glance of unutterable love, while a light seemed almost to shine through her countenance. "Can it indeed be true!"
                  "It is true, my child. I am sober now; and have done it in a sober mood. And I will abide by it if I die! And now Kate, can I, ought I, dare I, ask your forgiveness for the heart-breaking misery that I have brought upon you, while I bless you for the undeviating affection that has ever caused you to cling to a degraded and justly despised old man."
                  "Do not talk so, father!" Kate said, looking up into his face imploringly, as she laid her cheek upon his bosom. "This moment compensates for all. O, we shall yet be happy!" and then the first warm gush of tears relieved a heart that was almost breaking for joy.
                  The promise of that blessed hour has not yet been mocked. More than a year has passed, and Mr. Hamilton is still a sober man, and old as he is, one among the most active in the cause of temperance.
                  It is remarkable how quickly the external condition changes after a man becomes temperate. Instead of turning a wheel, Mr. Hamilton has, by the aid of his temperance friends, obtained an easy situation in which he is usefully employed. It yields him the comfortable income of five hundred dollars a year. With the frugal habits of his daughter, who has learned economy in the severest school, it more than suffices to provide for all their wants. Their small dwelling in a pleasant neighborhood, presents an air of neatness and comfort that is truly delightful, in contrast with their household economy little over a year since. Kate's health is gradually improving, and her countenance, though sedate, wears a cheerful expression.
                  May no dark shadow ever again fall upon her heart And confident are we, that it will not. The present wonderful movement is not the mere work of man, nor altogether under the control of man. Its cause lies deeply hidden in that invisible world of causes, whose mysterious action upon this visible world of effects, is often so incomprehensible. The era of intemperance, as a national curse, is past. Whatever of evil uses in society it has had to perform, we are bold to believe are accomplished, and, like the plague that once desolated London, will ere long live only on the page of history a fearful wonder—an appalling mystery.
                  
                  
                     
                        THE BOTTLE.
                        SCENE 2d.—HE IS DISCHARGED FROM HIS EMPLOYMENT FOR DRUNKENNESS: THEY PAWN THEIR CLOTHES TO SUPPLY THE BOTTLE.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               THE EXPERIENCE MEETING.
               
               THE EXPERIENCE MEETING.
               A FEW weeks after my first visit to the Washingtonians, I again attended one of their meetings. Even in that brief period their influence had become more largely extended. Hundreds had signed the total abstinence pledge, and coming in among them greatly increased their strength and importance. The eyes of the whole community were fixed upon them, with an expression of strange surprise and wonder. They were in the thoughts of all, and their doings were upon every tongue. If you met a friend in the street, the first words, after the greetings had passed, would almost certainly be—
               "Have you been to any of these temperance meetings?" Or—
               "These are wonderful doings really, of our temperance men." Or—
               "Would you believe it? Mr.—has joined the teetotallers!"
               As might well be supposed, the tavern-keepers were greatly alarmed, and used the weapons of ridicule, and sometimes of oppression to counteract the movement. But their efforts were altogether vain. Every opposition but gave renewed power to the impulse.
               How many a poor wife ejaculated, with freshly kind ling hopes, "O that my husband would join!"
               And, perhaps the next man to sign the pledge would be he for whom the ardent wish was breathed. Into many an abode over which for years had hung thick clouds, the warm sunshine suddenly penetrated. Smiles lit up many an eye, too familiar with tears, and joy trembled in many a heart long the dwelling place of sad despondency.
               On the night of my second visit to the society, I found the large hall in which their meetings were held crowded to excess. As before, the interest I felt prompted me to push my way up as near to the speaker's stand as possible, and my position there enabled me to look almost the entire audience in the face. Really it was a sight that moved my feelings, in spite of myself! There sat an old man, whom I had seen staggering in the street, many and many a time—an old man with sons and daughters, and grand-children, moving in respectable stations. How many tears had been shed for that old man; vain, hopeless tears! How like an almost insupportable weight had his name and image rested upon the hearts of his children! Now his face was calm, and full of hope, and confidence. Though marks of the destroyer were still upon him, there was yet a moral dignity in the expression of his countenance which I could not have believed that it would ever have worn.
               Near by was another, scarcely past the prime of life, whom I had known for ten years as a common drunkard. To have met him on a race course, gambling at a faro table, or brawling at the polls on an election day, or talking politics in a grog-shop, I should not have been surprised; but here, in a temperance meeting, he seemed, at first glance, to be out of his place. But the more narrowly I observed him, the more palpably apparent was the change that had taken place. He, too, whom all had considered past the hope of reformation, had renounced the cup of confusion!
               "Really this is wonderful!" I said. "Surely I must be in a dream!"
               But no; it was a blessed reality!
               "There is Mr.—, as I live!" whispered a person sitting near me.
               I turned towards the door with renewed surprise, and there, sure enough, came steadily up the aisle an individual ual, well known, as not only a drinking man, but a very bad man. His wife, an amiable woman, and three sweet children, had been for years utterly neglected; and this fact was notorious. And his conduct in other respects was too vile to admit of record here. His step was firm, and there was an expression of sad determination in his face, as he came up towards the head of the room, and sought a place amid the crowd.
               "And young M— also!" the same person said, surprise and pleasure in his tone.
               Young M— was there, sure enough. He was a young man, scarcely twenty-five, who had only been married two years, and in that time had been repeatedly intoxicated, and from neglect and abuse had well nigh broken the heart of his young wife, who had been compelled to leave him and seek refuge in her father's house. I looked him steadily in the face for a few moments,—it was calm and serious.
               "There is yet hope, young wife and mother!" I murmured with a thrill of emotion as I gazed upon M—: "there are yet bright days in store for you!"
               Subsequent events have proved the truth of that impression.
               More than twenty others did I notice there, whom I had known for years, as moral plague spots on the community. How changed they seemed!
               After the preliminaries of the meeting were over, the President announced that an hour or so would be spent in the recital of their experiences by such members of the society as felt inclined to speak. The first who arose, was a middle-aged man, with a thoughtful intelligent countenance. As he straightened himself up, all eyes were turned towards him, and there was a breathless interest manifested throughout the room.
            
            
               
               THE RECLAIMED.
               "Mr. President,"—he began, in a clear, distinct and emphatic tone,—"A man said to me, yesterday, that, for his part, he would be ashamed to tell of his miserable misconduct, if he had been a drunkard. Now, for my part, I am deeply grieved at and heartily ashamed of the life I have led for the past ten years—that grief and that shame I know to be sincere, and I wish them to be permanent, and one use in telling my history to others, is to confirm these feelings in myself, and another use is to encourage others to lift themselves out of the pit from which I have been elevated. I will not, therefore, keep silence—it seems to me, that if I were to do so, the very stones would cry out against me.
               "Twelve years ago, Mr. President, I married a young woman, to whom I was deeply attached—(here the voice of the speaker trembled, and fell to a lower tone.) How purely, and fondly she loved one so unworthy of that love as myself, her unwavering devotion, her patient suffering, her uncomplaining endurance through many weary years, too abundantly testified! Ah, sir! it is a sad thing for a woman to be a drunkard's wife! (And the speaker dashed aside, hastily, a tear.)
               "I am a mechanic. When I married, I was in business for myself, and doing very well. I furnished my house comfortably, and provided everything that persons in our circumstances could properly desire. And we were happy—at least so far as such a condition of affairs, united with a true regard for each other, could make us happy.
               "I had not been to a place of worship for many years before our marriage, and had a strong disinclination to going. My wife was a religious woman, and at first I went to church with her, but so irksome did the task become, that I made first one excuse for staying at home, and then another, and finally declined going altogether.
               This I could see pained her exceedingly, more especially as I generally met some friends in a neighboring tavern, and either sat and talked politics in the bar-room, or strolled out to some drinking gardens in the suburbs of the city. But I thought it very foolish in her to be thus pained, and, indeed, her evident disquietude of mind, at my conduct, irritated me, in spite of my better judgment and feelings, especially after I had been drinking, and caused me to think unkindly of her. It is very hard for us to cherish unkind thoughts, without their some time or other showing themselves in unkind words. I remember, as distinctly as I remember any occurrence of my life, the first time I spoke a harsh word to Mary. It was about a year after our marriage. She had been to church, the first time in many weeks, and I had been at the tavern as usual, and had drank rather freely. When I came in, I found her sitting with her babe, only a few weeks old, on her lap. The dinner table was on the floor, and Mary had evidently been waiting for me for some time. She looked up, her face still pale from her recent sickness, and said, half smiling, half in earnest—
               "'Oh, James, how can you spend your time on Sundays, as you do?'
               "My wife, as I have just said, had been to church for the first time in many weeks. She was religious in her feelings, and conscientious in the discharge of all her duties, and, besides, felt deeply concerned for me. Absence from worship for many weeks had caused the services of the church to make a stronger impression on her mind than usual, and the natural consequence was, that she felt a more anxious concern for me, which prompted her to speak as she did. But I was not in a condition to appreciate fully her feelings. Had I not been drinking, I should have felt little, if at all annoyed at her gentle reproof. But blinded and excited by liquor, I became instantly aroused into anger, and replied sharply:
               "'Mary, I won't submit to be catechised by you; and so, let this be the last time that you interfere in what does not concern you! If you relish going to church, go—I shall not hinder you—but don't, as you value your peace of mind, attempt again to dictate to me!"
               "As I said, I felt angry with Mary, and spoke sharply. Poor creature! I shall never forget how pale and frightened she looked; nor how long after the shadow that then fell upon her countenance rested on her gentle face Indeed, from that hour, I believe she was never again happy. She had suddenly awakened from a delusive dream, to a perception of painful realities; and the impression then made, time could not efface from her memory. I was instantly conscious of the wrong I had done, but alas! had not the manliness to confess it. My pride, the weak, stubborn pride of a man under the influence of liquor, was offended, and shrunk from any thing like an acknowledgment. The dinner hour passed in oppressive, embarrassed silence. After it was over, instead of spending the afternoon with my wife, as I had heretofore done, I took my hat and went out. Of course, I joined my cronies at the tavern, where I passed several hours in drinking and talking politics.
               "I came home towards nightfall, more under the influence of liquor than I had been since our marriage. The first glance at Mary's face told too plainly that the arrow had entered her soul. This indication, instead of softening my feelings, naturally kind, irritated and angered me.
               "'It's all put on,' I said to myself, indignantly. 'But she needn't think to play off such tricks upon me!'
               "As I seated myself near the window, moody and reserved, I was conscious that her eyes were upon me, but I avoided meeting their earnest glances. I felt, in spite of my effort to throw her into the wrong, that her heart was yearning towards me. But such a consciousness did not soften me in the least. I was, in a degree, insane from the influence of the liquor I had taken—insane, as every man is, who indulges in strong drink—and saw all things through a false and perverted medium. O, it is dreadful how men will give up the pure, generous freedom of calm and rational thought for a gratification so low and sensual, and become slaves to evil thoughts and evil affections! As I glance through a period of some ten years, occupying the position that I now do, and seeing things in such clear light, I can 
                     scarely
                     scarcely
                   believe that I am the same being that I was. I seem like a man who has been partially deranged for a long series of years, while his memory has remained active. What I once was, and what I now am, a man of kind feelings to all, I see to be my real character; but that dreadful period between, during which every good point in my nature was changed to an opposite, was the period of my insanity. O, sir, it is indeed dreadful to think of that wild and strange delusion! But to proceed:
               "That moody silence, the silence as of the grave to Mary's gentlest affections, continued even while we sat at the tea-table. Once or twice she made a remark, but I did not reply. I was possessed of an evil spirit, and, conscious all the while of the wrong I had done, cherished a feeling of blame against her. After supper, I repaired again to the tavern, and drank to a state of partial intoxication. When I came home, about ten o'clock, Mary had gone to bed with her babe. I felt glad of this, for, but half conscious as I was, I was yet willing to avoid that distressed, appealing look, which had, in the evening, irritated instead of softening me. She seemed to be asleep as I entered the chamber, and perceiving this, I undressed myself very silently, and half intoxicated as I was, had sense enough remaining to get quietly into bed. I was soon lost to consciousness in profound slumber.
               "It was daylight when I awoke, and Mary lay by my side as hushed as a sleeping infant. But I felt that she was not asleep—her breathing was too still. O, how wretched I felt! How painfully conscious of the deep wrong I had done! I would have given worlds, it seemed, if I had possessed them, could the events of the previous day have been utterly obliterated from the memory of both Mary and myself. But this was impossible. The arrow had sped, and the wound been made, and, even if healed, a scar, I felt, would ever remain.
               "From these painful feelings, my mind naturally turned to thoughts of reconciliation. And I pondered long over what I should do, and what I should say, to restore the light and smile to Mary's face. But alas! some evil spirit was near to suggest thoughts of pride. It seemed as if it would be too humiliating for me, a man, to make confession of wrong to a woman. The moment this idea was presented, I turned myself away from the half formed resolution to tell my fault openly, and thus relieve the heart upon which I had laid so heavy a burden.
               "Then I got up and dressed myself, without uttering a word, and went down stairs. It was about half an hour after that Mary entered our little breakfast room where I was sitting. I lifted my eyes as she came in, and she looked me in the face with a calm, sad expression, that touched my heart. Then the impulse came upon me strong, to spring to her side, and folding her in my arms, confess the wrong I had done her—for I loved her tenderly. But I seemed held back by a powerful hand, and then pride came with its mean suggestions. Few and brief were the words that passed between us at the morning meal. When I left the house for my shop, I proceeded, as was my custom, to a neighboring tavern, and drank a glass of brandy and water. Then I repaired to my business, still thinking of Mary, but less kindly. It occurred to me, during the morning, that she was only putting on a show of great distress of mind, merely to punish me. I felt irritated at the thought. Another glass of liquor confirmed more and more this impression, until I began, really, to believe it true.
               "So much did this false idea irritate me, that it was with difficulty that I could restrain myself from rebuking her angrily, at dinner time, and more especially in the evening. Gradually, however, this little breach, instead of widening by another opening rupture, grew less and less. But, the unclouded sunshine of Mary's face never returned. Still, she was cheerful, and seemed to have forgotten the circumstance—but not cheerful as she once had been. No one can tell how deeply this change pained me at times; especially, as, from the fact that she never afterwards expressed surprise or disappointment at any act or omission of mine, it was evident that an impression had been made that time could not efface.
               "But she was ever even-tempered, mild, gentle, and affectionate. And though, through a long series of years, I neglected her, and debased myself, she never uttered a reproach, or neglected a duty. If I blamed her, or spoke in my drunken moments, unkind and cutting words, she did not reply. But, I am going ahead of my story.
               "From drinking two or three glasses a day, my appetite for liquor increased, and soon demanded double that number. Still, I thought not of danger, until I was carried home from the tavern, one night, in a state of drunken insensibility. When I awoke in the morning, I endeavored to recall the events of the preceding evening, but could recollect nothing beyond my sitting and drinking in the tavern. One glance at the face of my wife, confirmed the sudden thought that I had been drunk. How pale and distressed was the expression of that face, yet how full of anxious yearning affection, as she turned her eyes upon me!
               "I asked her no questions, and she made no allusion to the condition I had been in. But I resolved to drink less.
               "How feeble is such a resolution, when tempted by a single draught of liquor! Instead of six or eight glasses, I only drank four during that day; but on the next I drank nine, and when I came home at night, could just make out to find my way to bed. For two weeks from that evening I did not draw a sober breath! One night about the end of that period, I came home in a feverish state of mind. My nerves had become excited to a high degree, from their long continued, excessive stimulation I felt wild, restless and irritable. It was three years after our marriage, and our only child, a little girl, was about two years of age. She was not well, and, in consequence, was very fretful. Her crying annoyed me exceedingly.
               
               "'Hush!' I said in an angry tone to her, a few minutes after I came in. But she cried on.
               "'Aint you going to hush?' I said, louder and more angrily. Still her crying did not cease. I now felt very much excited, and my whole body seemed to burn with anger against her.
               "'If you don't hush this moment I will half kill you!' I exclaimed, advancing towards the little girl I loved se tenderly when sober, but against whom I now felt a bitter indignation. But little Mary did not hush. Then I caught her up madly by one arm, and commenced beating her with all my strength—the strength of a nervous man inspired by intoxication and anger, exercised on a delicate child but two years old! One blow, such as I gave her, were enough, it would seem, to have killed her. The poor child ceased crying on the instant; but I was in a rage and ceased not my blows until her mother, terrified at the scene, sprung forward, and snatched the little creature from my hand that held her high above the floor. To this I responded with a powerful blow on the side of my poor wife's head, and she fell senseless to the floor, and at the same moment, I kicked my child, who was clinging to her mother's garments, half across the room.
               "For a moment after, I seemed in the centre of a whirling and confused mass—then I became suddenly sober, and as perfectly conscious and rational as ever I was in my life. O, the agony of that terrible moment! I shudder and grow sick at heart, even now, when I think of it. There lay both wife and child, pale and insensible, and for all I knew dead, before me; and my hand had done the deed! My wife and child that I loved so tenderly! My gentle, uncomplaining wife, and sweet innocent child!
               "But I cannot dwell longer here; I must pass on, or I shall not be able to finish my narrative—(and the voice of the speaker trembled, and his tones were husky.) From that hour, my wife never smiled; and my little one seemed to me to have a sad expression in her dear young face: and I doubt not that the appearance was real. These changes always irritated me when I had been indulging to any considerable extent in drinking, and caused me to speak many an angry word to both. O sir!—well may strong drink be called a devil, for when it has once entered into us, we are possessed as of an evil spirit. For about a week after I had struck that blow, I was a sober man; but my reflections, while sober, were too terrible, and at last, to drown these, I drank to intoxication.
               "Under circumstances like these, my business could not, of course, long remain prosperous. It gradually became involved, and the consequent perplexity caused me to drink still deeper. Six years from the day that I was married, I was sold out by the sheriff, and with two children and my wife, turned out upon the world without a dollar in my pocket. This, instead of sobering only caused me to drink the harder.
               "From a master workman in a large business, I sunk to the condition of a journeyman; and from a commodious house, neatly furnished, my family retired to two small rooms, with but a few necessary household articles. I cannot tell you how this change really affected my poor wife, for I was too ill-natured to feel for and sympathize with her, and too much and too constantly bewildered by intoxication, to be able to make any correct observations on her appearance. But, that her sufferings must have been intense—beyond the power of human language to describe—may be inferred from the fact, that in one year she sunk into her grave. Not from any sudden illness—not from that slow, but sure destroyer consumption—but, from the agonies of a wounded spirit, gradually wearing away the vital energies of her system. Ah! sir—How many a woman has sunk thus, into an early grave, during the last twenty years.
               "When she was borne away from the comfortless tenement in which we lived, I was, would you believe it, sir too drunk to attend her funeral! Three days after, I got one of our orphan asylums to take my two children; both girls, one six years of age, and the other four. I was then free to sink as low as I pleased, without the dread of encountering countering a pale, sad, suffering face, or meeting, daily with two neglected children, to reprove me. I was freed, also, from the necessity of providing for them, and this left me a larger sum to spend for liquor, or, rather relieved me from the necessity of working so many hours in the day. Gradually I sunk lower and lower, until I became really unfit to work at my trade, and then no one would employ me. This was two years after the death of my wife, and during this time, I had not once seen my children, nor did I care to see them. All natural affection seemed gone from my bosom. I loved only myself, and sought only the lowest sensual gratifications. How like a picture drawn by a sickly imagination does all this appear! It does not seem possible that a human being can become so utterly degraded. But alas! it is too true. Thousands of heart-broken wives, neglected children, and debased drunkards, covering by thousands the length and breadth of this land, attest the awful truth. I say awful—for it is awful to contemplate the wide-spread ruin of soul and body, that has been caused among the people of this country by drunkenness.
               "Unable to get work at my trade, I resorted to any expedient that presented itself to earn a penny with which to buy liquor; for liquor I would have. Sometimes I broke stone on the turnpikes near the city; sometimes I scraped the streets as a common scavenger. But I usually soon lost even such employment from drunkenness; I was too worthless for even that! Then I would seek little jobs about—such as piling wood, holding horses, or carrying home market baskets. As for lodgings—Howard's woods, or some lumber yard sufficed during the summer months; and in winter, I was an almost nightly tenant of the watchhouse. Thus I continued, sinking lower and lower, if it were possible to descend lower than the point I had reached, for three or four years.
               "It was in the month of June last—on a warm, sultry evening, that I repaired, about nine o'clock, to Howard's woods, there to pass the night. Although the night was clear, there was no moon, and it was quite dark in the woods. I entered from the Falls road, and pursued my way up to the fence that encloses the garden of the old Howard mansion. I made out to climb over this, and then lay down just within it, and was soon sleeping as soundly as if I had been reposing on the softest bed.
               "I suppose that I must have been sleeping about two hours, perhaps three, when I seemed to be suddenly awakened by some one laying a hand upon my shoulder, and calling my name aloud. Instantly, I was surrounded by a light, which appeared to emanate from three figures, all in white, that stood before me. One glance was sufficient to tell me who they were. I could not mistake the face of Mary, nor the forms of my two children. But how changed they were. Each was dressed in garments white and shining, and upon each face reposed a peaceful smile. Instantly, however, as their eyes rested upon me, when it seemed they became suddenly conscious of my presence, did that quiet, happy smile pass away, and a sad expression rested upon each lovely countenance. Then they fixed their eyes upon me reprovingly, and slowly faded from my sight. All around was now thick darkness.
               "My next perception was that of the rain falling heavily upon my face, as I lay upon the ground. I was perfectly sobered—more so than I had been for years. For, some moments, after rising to my feet, I mused upon the strange apparition I have mentioned, and the more I mused upon it, the more it troubled me. I could not, of course, lie again upon the wet ground. Nor could I find my way out of the wood. Suddenly, however, a broad flash of lightning blazed around, and in the instant that it lighted up the air, I saw the direction that it was necessary for me to take, in order to return to the city.
               "The storm now began to rage violently. The rain fell in a heavy incessant shower; the lightning was frequent and flashed out with a fierce glare, running it seemed along the ground, now about my feet, and now circling some tree like a blazing serpent. How deep and solemn was the darkness that followed each flash—quickly succeeded by terrific peals of thunder, that jarred the earth upon which I stood as if shook by an earthquake quake! And the war of the tempest in that old wood was loud and wild.
               "As I groped my way along, guided by the frequent glare of the lightning, drenched with the rain, and shrinking at each tremendous crush that broke over my head, my heart sank within me, filled with an awful fear. At last I was clear of the woods, and turned my steps towards the city. As I reached Franklin street, the storm began to subside, and, in the course of half an hour, the sky was cloudless, and the stars shone with a clearer brightness than before. I was standing at the corner of Howard and Lexington streets, irresolute as to which way I should go, when the town clock rang out the hour of two. There were yet two hours before day-light, and I was wet to the skin, shivering with cold, yet raging with a most intolerable thirst for liquor. To abate, in some degree, the latter, I drank ladle full after ladle full of pure cold water from the pump near which I had paused. Then laying down upon a neighboring cellar door, I tried again to sleep. But I was so chilled from the dampness of my clothes, and so much unnerved, that I sought in vain to sink into unconsciousness, until near day-dawn. Then my sleep was brief and troubled, and I was awakened from it by finding myself shaken by a firm hand. I had been awakened thus, a hundred times before, and had ever met rude and irritating language. For this I was again prepared, and rose up with an angry scowl upon my face. But the first words disarmed me.
               "'What a dreadful life this must be for a man to lead!' the person who had aroused me said, in a kind sympathizing tone.
               "This melted me right down. For years a kind word had never been spoken to me.
               "'O, it is dreadful!' I replied, earnestly, looking up into his face.
               "'Then, my friend, why do you lead such a life?' he asked, encouragingly.
               "'I wish I could lead a different one, for there is no pleasure in this—' I replied in a desponding tone.
               "'You may, if you will,' he said, and he spoke earnestly.
               "But I shook my head, and answered—
               "'No—no. My case is hopeless. I cannot resist the intense desire for liquor. I must have it.'
               "'But you can resist it,' he said—'I know many who were as much enslaved as you are, who are now sober men.'
               "'That cannot be,' was my positive, half indignant reply, for I thought he was trifling with me. 'Who has heard of any one so far gone as I am, ever being reformed? No—no!—I shall fill a drunkard's grave'—and I shook my head in the bitterness of despair.
               "'I have heard—I have seen very many who were as little likely to be reclaimed as you are, who are now sober, industrious men, with their families again around them, and again happy. This is a new era, my friend, a new power is at work; and what was once considered hopeless, is now an every day occurrence. Hundreds of men, who have been in the constant habit of drinking, have renounced liquor altogether, and are now banded together for mutual assistance. Come! Will you not join in with them?'
               "Thus the stranger urged me, and I listened as if in a dream. After he had ceased, I said eagerly, as I rose to my feet:
               "'O sir, do not trifle with me! Is what you say, indeed, true? Can a drunken wretch, debased as I am, be reclaimed?'
               "'He can, my friend!' was the emphatic answer. 'For ten years I was a drunkard. It is now six months since I tasted liquor, and I have no desire for it.'
               "How strange all this sounded to me! And as he spoke, a new hope sprung up in my bosom. But this hope quickly faded, and I said in a sad tone:
               "'Others may reform, but I cannot. If I were to quit drinking what could I do? I have no home, no friends, no clothes that are even decent—all men would continue to shun me as a loathsome wretch, who had lost all claims to human consideration.'
               
               "'Do you really wish to reform?' the stranger now asked me in a decided, serious voice.
               "'I do most sincerely.'
               "'Then you can reform. Come with me,' he added, taking hold my arm. 'Wherever there is a will, there is a way.'
               "I followed him mechanically. We soon came to a small two story house in a narrow street or alley, running down south from the Lexington market. Into this we entered, when I was taken up into one of the chambers, Here I was supplied with plenty of clean water, a clean, coarse shirt, and a pair of coarse linen pantaloons. As the latter were produced, the man said to me:
               "Are you willing to sign a pledge never again to drink any kind of intoxicating liquor? In a word—will you join the temperance society?'
               "'Will it be of any use?' I asked.
               "'Yes, if you wish to reform,' he replied.
               "'Then I will join, and try my best,' I said.
               "'Do so, and you are safe,' was the cheerful and encouraging answer.
               "After I had washed myself, and put on the clean, dry clothes with which I had been furnished, I went down stairs. There I was invited to partake, with the family, of a warm, plentiful breakfast. The man had a wife and three children, and each seemed cheerful, and even happy. To me, they were all kindness and attention. After breakfast, I was invited to go up stairs and lie down, until my coat, which had been drenched with rain, could be dried. This offer I accepted, for, now that I had taken no liquor since the day before, I felt quite weak. I soon fell asleep, and was conscious of nothing further, until my unknown friend came up and asked me to take some dinner with the family. Now I was in a calmer, and more rational frame of mind than I had been in for years, and as I descended with him, and met his cheerful family at the table, I thought of my own children, sheltered in a charitable institution, and of my poor wife, long since laid in the peaceful grave. It was a bitter reflection.
               "At the dinner table, the conversation turned upon the wonderful reformation that was going on among the drunkards—a reformation, the most distant whisper of which had never, before that morning, reached my ears. My unknown friend spoke of his own history; of how he had been enslaved to the love of strong drink—how he had neglected his business and abused his family—how he had despaired of ever becoming reformed; and how, at last, he had been sought out by some of the Washingtonians, and persuaded to sign the total abstinence pledge. The result of this pledge, he pointed out in the changed and happy condition of his family.
               "'I was found by a Washingtonian,' said he, 'sleeping one morning on a cellar-door, as I found you; and I was persuaded by him to go and sign the pledge. His kindness and evident concern moved me, and I resolved that I would take his advice. And I did so. That night I went to one of their meetings and signed the pledge. Since then, every thing has gone well with me. And now, I get up early every morning, and look out for the drunkards on the cellar-doors, and in the market houses. I have already induced nineteen, whom I found thus, to sign the pledge; and if you go with me to-night to the meeting, as you have promised, you will make the twentieth.'
               "I went, of course, and signed. After I had put my name down, I felt a new power within me. I felt that I could keep the pledge. And I have kept it, and mean to keep it as long as I live.
               "'You must go home with me to night,' said this kind individual, touching me on the shoulder after the meeting was over—'and to-morrow we will see if we can get you something to do.'
               "I accepted his kind offer, gladly, and slept, for the first time in three years, on a comfortable bed. On the next day, sure enough, he went with me to three or four places where my business was carried on, and at last, obtained work for me. From that time I have had as much as I can do, and am now earning twelve dollars every week.
               "Soon after I was reformed, I went to see my children I had not looked upon them for five long years. How changed they were! When told that I was their father, they seemed scarcely to credit it, and evinced no affection for me. This touched my heart. I staid but a few minutes the first time, for the interview was too painful to me, and, I saw, too embarrassing to them, to admit of being prolonged.
               "In a week I called again, and then the distance and reserve of my children were in some degree broken down. Another week passed, and I paid them another visit—a smile lit up each face as I entered. O sir, words cannot express my delight, as I saw that smile! It was a ray of sunshine to my heart. Thus I continued to visit them regularly, until I could not let a day pass without looking upon their faces, and listening to their sweet voices. And they even greeted my coming with expressions of gladness.
               "I now made application to the directors of the institution to have my children restored to me; but was positively refused. I represented that I was reformed—that I was earning ten and twelve dollars a week, and had already money enough to buy the few articles of furniture that we should want. But they would not trust me with my children. How wretched I felt, as I turned away from those to whom my earnest petition had been addressed! But I determined never to rest until I could get my children. Every three or four weeks I renewed my petition, and every time the reluctance of the directors seemed in some degree to yield. Finally I prevailed, and this day, thank Heaven!—I received my children back again!"
               Here the speaker's voice gave way, and he sat down and sobbed like a child.
               There was a deep silence for nearly a minute after he had taken his seat, a silence of profound emotion. Every heart was moved, and almost every eye was wet. Then a man arose, whose appearance indicated that he was yet quite young. He dashed aside a tear as he took the floor; but it was soon evident that a light heart still beat in his bosom.
               
               
                  
                     THE BOTTLE.
                     SCENE 3d.—AN EXECUTION SWEEPS OFF THE GREATER PART OF THEIR FURNITURE: THEY COMFORT THEMSELVES WITH THE BOTTLE.
                  
               
            
            
               THE MAN WITH THE POKER.
               "I CAN'T tell you, Mr. President," he said, "so sad and moving a tale as my friend who has just taken his seat, and, Heaven knows, I don't wish to. I am now only twenty-six years of age—a young man you will say to be a reformed drunkard. That is true; and yet I have been a great drinker in my time. I began when a boy. My master, a book-binder, didn't care anything about me, further than to see that my work was done. Of course I sought my own company, and my own pleasures. The amusement of running to fires pleased me most. Every night I went to the engine house, and there learned to drink. Long before I was twenty-one years of age, I could take a dozen glasses through the day, and scarcely feel it.
               "At last I was free That long looked for time, finally came, and I was constituted my own master. But I was little fit to govern myself. As an apprentice, I had to attend to my work, for a certain number of hours every day. But when I became free, this necessity was removed, and inclination led me away to the tavern or engine house, nearly half of my time. Of course, under such circumstances, my wages would not pay my expenses, and I gradually went behindhand. Then came annoying duns, and still more troublesome warrants. To keep from going to jail, I persuaded first this friend and then that one to supersede for me; and the result was, of course, that they were compelled to pay my debts. I felt this keenly, but not keenly enough to make me give up the cause and attend to my work. The thirst for liquor soon became so strong, that it took every dollar I earned to satisfy it. Nothing less than ten to fifteen drinks a day would do me, and my wages were rarely over five dollars a week.
               "In this way I got behind with my board, and had to leave my boarding house. And it was not long before I was turned out of the next one for the same cause. My clothes had now become so dirty and ragged that no boarding house keeper would receive me, and then I was compelled to go and sleep in the engine house, with two or three others as degraded and wretched as myself.
               "One morning, about a year after I had become thus an outcast, I had very strange feelings. My mind was confused, and my hands trembled so that I was unable to use my tools, with anything like the required skill. I could not tell what was the matter with me—but thought that I at least knew what to do. And so I left the shop and went over to a tavern and drank three glasses of brandy and water. But I felt no better. My hands trembled none the less, and my mind was none the clearer. In an hour after, I repeated the dose, but with no better success. I felt seriously alarmed, for my sensations were altogether new and peculiar. It was, I think, about one hour after I had returned from the tavern, that, in reaching out my hand for a small iron bar, it suddenly assumed the form of a serpent, while I was seized with the most horrible fear that the mind can imagine. I shrunk away from the bench at which I was standing, trembling from head to foot, my face, as I have since been told, pale, and expressive of the most abject fear. There was only a boy, a stout lad, in the shop when this occurred, and he started for the door in alarm. Instinctively I turned to follow; but the standing-press was near the door, and as I went towards it, the large iron bar that stood leaning against the wall, began suddenly to writhe, and then, as a huge serpent, seemed to dart towards me. I sprung back with a scream of terror, and fell upon the floor. Here I lay for some time, unable, from the paralyzing influence of the dreadful fear that was on me, to rise. As I lay thus, I can remember distinctly that I made an effort to reason with myself, on the utter impossibility of two iron bars becoming snakes. This calmed my mind a good deal, so that I was enabled to raise myself up and look about me. There stood the long iron bar, in its usual place against the wall, and the small bar, as I glanced at the bench, was lying beside the screw press, a veritable piece of iron. I drew a long breath, and muttered between my teeth—
               "'I am going mad, surely!'
               "For some moments I stood thus in the middle of the shop, looking first at one bar and then at another, expecting every moment to see each start into life, yet, at the same time reasoning with myself on the perfect absurdity of the thing. Finally I ventured up to the bench, and after looking steadily at the small bar as I stood bending over it, ventured at length to touch it, and then to grasp it in my hand. It was a bar still! a cold, heavy iron bar. I lifted it up and examined it from end to end. It was the same bar that I had handled for years.
               "Thus reassured, I attempted to resume my work. I placed some books in the press, and lifted the bar to screw them up. But I had taken only a single turn, when the bar dropped from my hand into the shaving tub, as if it had really been the serpent it suddenly appeared to be. O sir, I cannot describe the horror of that dreadful moment!—With my mind active, and my consciousness distinct, to be thus beset by appearances that had none the less terror because I could think of them as unreal—the more creations of a distempered fancy. But if I was terrified at the serpent, how awful were my feelings when, on glancing upwards, I saw a face of horrible malignancy, just over my head, and a dozen serpents and dragons, and monsters of all shapes, coming, as it seemed, with hellish delight towards me. With a single wild, prolonged scream, I rushed to the door, and tumbled, rather than walked down the stairs. Once in the street, I passed over to the tavern. On entering, I went hastily up to the bar, and called for brandy. As I turned the neck of the bottle towards the tumbler, and the liquor commenced running into it, both decanter and glass seemed instantly changed into a living monster, that I could feel writhing in my hands. I dropped both, and sprung backwards half across the bar-room. They were dashed to pieces on the floor.
               "One of my old cronies was sitting close by, and instantly came forward, inquiring in a hurried, anxious tone, what ailed me.
               
               "'I'm going crazy, I believe!'—was my answer at tempting to rally myself.
               "'But what is the matter, Bill?' he asked, earnestly.
               "'That's more than I can tell,' I said 'But everything I touch becomes a serpent or terrible monster.'
               "'What's the matter? What's the matter?' eagerly enquired half a dozen others coming up.
               "'Why, the man with the poker is after him, I believe!' said the person who had first spoken, in a half laughing, half serious tone.
               "'Poor fellow!' ejaculated one—
               "'Poor fellow, indeed!' said another
               "'What do you mean?' I asked, half indignantly.
               "'O nothing, Bill. But you had better go home and go to bed; you are not well.'
               "'I know I am not well, Jim,' I said. 'But what is the matter with me? Can you tell me that?'
               "And as I asked the question, a horrible, grinning monster started up suddenly before me, and I drew back with an involuntary shriek of terror; and then shrunk into a corner of the room, hiding my face, and trembling from head to foot as violently as if in an ague fit O, what a horrible fear was that which took possession of me! While I sat thus, shrinking closer into the corner, a glass of pure brandy was placed to my lips, and I drank it all off at a single draught. Still I sat crouching upon the floor, fearing to rise, or look around. At length I turned my head slowly, peering over my shoulder to see if the object of my fear was gone. But instead of one terrible shape, the room seemed filled with serpents and monsters and devils, all grinning at me, as if enjoying my terror with fiendish exultation.
               "As I glanced thus around, one of the company came up, and said, in a soothing tone—
               "'Don't be afraid, Bill. Nothing shall hurt you.'
               "But as he spoke his word of assurance, one of the monstrous shapes peered over his shoulder, and seemed to thrust its head almost: into my face. I could not bear this, but starting up, ran out into the street, and took my way I knew not whither. But I will not detain you, to relate all my horrible sufferings for the next two days. Many here have experienced strange terrors, and for those who have not, words are too feeble to express them. Tortured by fears the most terrible—haunted by awful and malignant shapes—and unable to sleep, until, after the lapse of two days and nights, exhausted nature gave way, I endured more, it seemed, than an age of horrors. At length I sunk into a state of insensibility, from which I awoke in the almshouse, whither some friendly hand had conveyed me.
               "'What has been the matter with me, doctor?' I asked, after I was able to go about.
               "'Mania-â-Potu,' he replied, in a low, emphatic tone—
               "'Mania, what?' I said, for I did not understand him.
               "'Mania-â-Potu,' he repeated.
               "But I shook my head, for I could not understand him, never having heard of the dreadful disease he named, although I had been a sad sufferer by it.
               "He then, seeing that I was really ignorant of the nature as well as the name of the disease, carefully explained to me, that when, by a long continued resort to artificial stimulus, any one has weakened, to a certain degree, the vital energies of his system, the stimulus itself at last fails to keep up the apparently healthy action, and all things fall into disorder.
               "'But why did I see those terrible serpents, and monsters, doctor?' I asked, my heart sinking at the bare recollection.
               "'That is one of the unaccountable phenomena attending this strange disease,' he replied, gravely. 'For one, you have experienced its horrors, and I hope the effect is such on your mind, as to deter you from running the risk of another attack.'
               "'Nothing shall tempt me to touch the accursed thing again!' I said, with the force of a strong determination; and, though often tempted since, I have thus far kept my resolution, and intend keeping it to the end of my life. It was enough for me to have had the man with the poker
                   after me once I have no desire to cultivate his acquaintance further.
               "Well, after I was dismissed from the almshouse, I went back to the shop and obtained work again. It was, I think, about ten o'clock, on the morning of my first return to business, that a constable touched me on the shoulder, as I stood at the bench, and said—
               "'I have a warrant against you, sir.
               "'Against me?'
               "'Yes; you owe Mr.—ten dollars, and he has ordered a warrant to be taken out against you.'
               "It was a grog bill.
               "'I can't pay it now,' I replied, 'but tell Mr.—that, if he will only wait, I will give him two dollars a week until the whole bill is settled.'
               "'You must get it superceded,' he said.
               "'I can't do it,' I answered. 'Nobody will go my security. Too many have suffered by me already'
               "'Then you will have to go to jail, that's all.'
               "I can't help it. I've got no money, and no one to go my security. So, when the time comes, I must go to jail, I suppose—but staying in jail won't pay debts.'
               "I promised to go to the magistrate's office at four o'clock on that afternoon and confess judgment, and, when the hour came, I went accordingly. I, of course, admitted the debt to be a legal one, though I told the landlord, who was present, that as to the justice of it, that was another question, for he had sold me the liquor when I was in a state little better than insanity. This aggravated him, and he ordered an execution and commitment to be made out on the spot. Under these I was carried over to jail, and a dollar and sixty cents paid for one week's boarding. It would detain you too long to relate the cruel torture of mind which I saw exhibited in the debtor's prison. One man, I thought, would go crazy. He had been suddenly torn away from his wife and children, who were utterly destitute—the former sick, and the latter young and helpless. He seemed deeply and tenderly attached to them, poor fellow! He walked the long avenue, into which the different apartments opened, backwards and forwards hour after hour, in restless anguish of mind. We roomed together, and it seemed to me that he did not sleep an hour during the week that I was imprisoned. The debt was not originally his own; he had saved a friend from the jail, to be carried there in his stead. He was a sober man, and his friend intemperate. That tells the whole story.
               "My creditor got tried of paying my board after the first week, and so I was turned out of jail at its expiration. The poor fellow I have mentioned, came out on the same day.
               "I returned to the shop again, and went to work. While I lay idling in jail, I had time for reflection. On counting up my debts, I found that I owed for old boarding bills, old tailor's, and shoemaker's bills, grog bills, and for warrants that others had superseded and been compelled to pay for me, just about three hundred dollars. This large sum, I resolved should be paid, if I could only keep out of jail. As to my appetite for liquor, that came back on me strong, but whenever I wanted a dram, I drank about a pint of pure cold water, and if that did not do, I repeated the dose, and so I finally drowned the desire out. It can't stand up against cold water! One man said to me, shortly after I came out of jail,
               "'Come, Bill, take a glass of beer, that can't hurt you!'
               "But I said 'No. If I drink beer I shall want brandy.
               "'Take a little cider,' he then urged.
               "'It's but the devil by another name,' was my answer. 'No—no—I will have nothing to do with anything that makes drunk come!'
               "'But I'm sure a little wine can't hurt you—'
               "'You'll never get the man with the poker after me again, that's clear,' was my positive reply. 'I have just as much of his acquaintance as I want, so don't talk to me about beer, cider, wine, or brandy. I've done with the whole of them. Hereafter I sing— 
                     
                        'Water for me! bright water for me!
                        And wine for the tremulous debauchee.'
                     
                  
               
               
               "I was not to be driven from my resolution. I was a sober rational man, and I meant to remain so; and what is better, I did remain so, and paid off all my debts within a year into the bargain. And how do you think I did that? Why, I lived for the whole time on half a dollar a week! Every Monday morning I went down to Mason's bake-house, and bought six cents worth of broken navy and pilot bread. This was enough to last me a week, and when softened in water, with a little salt, was, by no means, unpalatable food. As for meat, I ate but little, never buying over a pound in a whole week. I made my coffee in the glue kettle, and, at night, slept in the shaving tub! In this way I lived for a year; was perfectly healthy, and more contented than I had ever been before. At the end of that time, I was out of debt, and had a new suit of clothes to my back.
               "But now, having accomplished the task I had set for myself, I began to have a desire for company. I felt often very lonely, and was frequently troubled with thoughts of the tavern and my old companions. But I hit upon a remedy for this too. And what do you think that was? Why, I got me a wife; and have never been lonesome or tired of myself since!"
               He sat down amid shouts of prolonged applause. That man can be anything he pleases, said I to myself. He has only to will that a thing be done, and no matter how high the aim, success is certain.
            
            
               THE DRUNKARD'S BIBLE.
               "MR. President," said a short stout man, with a good-humoured countenance, and a florid complexion, rising as the last speaker took his seat, "I have been a tavern-keeper."
               At this announcement there was a movement through the whole room, and an expression of increased interest.
               "Yes, Mr. President," he went on—"I have been a tavern-keeper, and many a glass have I sold to you, and to the secretary there, and to dozens of others that I see here,"—(glancing around upon the company.)
               "That's a fact," broke in the President—"many a gin-toddy and brandy-punch have I taken at your bar. But times are changed now, and we have begun to carry the war right into the enemy's camp. And our war has not been altogether unsuccessful, for we have taken prisoner one of the rum-sellers' bravest generals! But go on friend W—, let us have your experience."
               "As to my experience, Mr. President," the ex-tavern-keeper resumed, "in rum-selling and rum-drinking, for I have done a good deal of both in my time, that would be rather too long a story to tell to-night—and one that I had much rather forget than relate. It makes me tremble and sick at heart, whenever I look back on the evil that I have done. I, therefore, usually look ahead with the hope of doing some good to my fellow men.
               "But there is one incident that I will relate. For the last five years, a hard working mechanic, with a wife and several small children, came regularly, almost every night, to my tavern, and spent the evening in the bar-room. He came to drink, of course, and many and many a dollar of his hard earnings went into my till. At last he became a perfect sot—working scarcely one-fourth of his time, and spending all he earned in liquor. His poor wife had to take in washing to support herself and children, while he spent his time and the little he could make at my bar. But his appetite for liquor was so strong, that his week's earnings were usually all gone by Tuesday or Wednesday, and then I had to chalk up a score against him, to be paid off when Saturday night came. The score gradually increased, until it amounted to three or four dollars, over his regular Saturday night's pay, when I refused to sell him any more liquor until it was settled. On the day after I had thus refused him, he came in with a neat mourning breast-pin, enclosing some hair—no doubt, I thought—of a deceased relative. This he offered in payment of what he owed. I accepted it, for the pin I saw at once was worth double the amount of my bill. I did not think, or indeed care about the question, whether he was the owner or not; I wanted my own, and in my selfish eagerness to get my own, I hesitated not to take a little more than my own.
               "I laid the breast pin away, and all things went on smoothly, for awhile. But he gradually got behind-hand again, and again I cut off his supply of liquor. This time he brought me a pair of brass andirons, and a pair of brass candlesticks, and I took them, and wiped off the score against him. At last he brought a large family Bible, and I took that too—thinking that no doubt I could sell it for something.
               "On the Sunday afterwards, having nothing to do—for I used to shut my bar on Sundays, thinking that it was not respectable to sell liquor on that day—I opened this poor drunkard's family Bible, scarcely thinking of what I was doing. The first place I turned to was the family record. There it was stated, that upon a certain day, he had been married to Emily—. I had known Emily—, when I was a young man, very well, and had once thought seriously of offering myself to her in marriage. I remembered her happy young face, and seemed suddenly to hear a tone of her merry laughter.
               "'Poor creature!' I sighed involuntarily as a thought of her present condition crossed my mind—and then with no very pleasant feelings I turned over another leaf. There was the record of the births of four children; the last record had been made recently, and was in the mother's hand.
               "I never had such strange feelings as now came over me. I felt that I had no business with this book. But I tried to stifle my feelings, and turned over several leaves quickly. As I suffered my eyes to rest upon an open page, these words arrested my attention:
               "'Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging; whose is deceived thereby is not wise.'
               "This was just the subject, that, under the feelings I then had, I wished to avoid, and so I referred to another place. There I read:
               "'Who hath woo? Who hath sorrow? Who hath wounds? Who hath babbling? Who hath redness of eyes? They that tarry long at the wine. At the last it biteth like a serpent, it stingeth like an adder.'
               "I felt like throwing the book from me. But once more I turned the leaves, and my eyes rested upon these words: 
                     "'Woe unto him that giveth his neighbor drink; that puttest thy bottle to him and makest him drunken.'
                  
               
               "I closed the book suddenly, and threw it down. Then, for half an hour, I paced the room backwards and forwards in a state of mind such as I had never before experienced. I had become painfully conscious of the direful evils resulting from intemperance, and still more painfully conscious, that I had been a willing instrument in the spread of these evils. I cannot tell you how much I suffered during that day and night, nor describe the fearful conflict that took place in my mind, between the selfish love of the gains of my calling, and the plain dictates of truth and humanity. It was about nine o'clock, I think, on that evening, that I opened the drunkard's Bible again, with a kind of despairing hope that I should meet there with something to direct me. I opened at the Psalms and read two or three chapters. As I read on, without finding anything that seemed to apply directly to my case, I felt an increasing desire to abandon my calling, because it was injurious to my fellow men. After I had read the Bible, I retired to bed, but could not sleep. I am sure that during that night I thought of every drunken man to whom I had sold liquor, and of all their beggared families. In the brief sleep that I obtained, I dreamed that I saw a long line of tottering drunkards, with their wives and children in rags. And a loud voice said—'Who hath done this?'
               "The answer, in a still louder voice, directed, I felt, to me, smote upon my ear like a peal of thunder:
               "'Thou art the man!'
               "From this troubled slumber I awoke to sleep no more that night. In the morning the last and most powerful conflict came. The question to be decided, was,
               "'Shall I open my tavern, or at once abandon the dreadful traffic in liquid poison?'
               
               "Happily, I decided never again to put to any man's lips the cup of confusion. My next step was to turn the spicket of every keg or barrel of spirits, wine, beer, or cider, and let the contents escape upon the floor. My bottles and decanters were likewise emptied. Then I came and signed your total abstinence pledge, and what is better, never rested until I had persuaded the man whose Bible had been of so much use to me, to sign the pledge likewise.
               "And now, Mr. President, I am keeping, at my old stand, a Temperance Grocery, and am making restitution as fast as possible. There are at least half a dozen families, that my tavern helped to make poor and wretched, to whom I furnish a small quantity of groceries every week in many cases equal to the amount that used to be spent at my bar for liquor. Four of my oldest and best customers, have already signed the pledge by my persuasion, and I am not going to rest, until every man that I helped to ruin, is restored to himself, his family, and society."
               A round of hearty applause followed this address, and then another of the reformed drinkers took the floor.
            
            
               AFTER TO-DAY; OR, TREATING RESOLUTION.
               He was past the prime of life, and his whole appearance was that of a man with an original good constitution, broken down by dissipation. There was not that cheerful air about him, that had been exhibited by the last two speakers When he spoke, there was something subdued and melancholy in his tone.
               "I have never, before this moment," he began, "attempted to address an audience, and were it not that I feel constrained to do so, under the belief that what I have to say will be useful to some here, who may not yet have fully made up their minds to sign the pledge, I should most certainly hold my peace.
               "Twenty years ago, Mr. President, three men sat drinking ing in the Theatre tavern, Holliday street. For five or six years previous, they had met there, regularly, every evening, to drink, smoke, and talk politics. Of course, their love of liquor, from being thus regularly indulged, increased, until all three were usually two-thirds intoxicated every night. When I say two-thirds, I mean that near to perfect insensibility. One of these men, Mr. President, now addresses you. The other two are dead. But, I must not anticipate.
               "On the night to which I allude, being somewhat at a loss for a subject, we commenced talking about our mutual capacity for imbibing liquor, and, finally, resolved to enter upon a regular contest.
               "'What kind of liquor shall we drink?' asked one, whose name was Joseph—or Joe, as we familiarly called him.
               "'I go in for pure brandy'—I replied—
               "'No—gin—' responded the third, whose name was Henry.
               "Good old Irish whiskey is my favorite,' said Joe, 'and at good old Irish whiskey I can put you both under the table.'
               "'I doubt it,' the other remarked. 'But I'm for a better test than either brandy, gin, or whiskey.'
               "'What is that, Harry?' I asked.
               "'Why, all these, one after the other, and ale, wine, and cider. That's the true test. First brandy, then wine, then whiskey, ale, gin and cider, a glass every five minutes. What do you say to that?'
               "'I would rather not,' I said—for I had once been drunk on brandy and ale together, and knew what it was.
               "'I'm agreed,' Joe said—
               "'Well, what do you say?' Harry asked of me. 'Not afraid, I hope? I thought you more of a man.'
               "I was just drunk enough to do almost anything if told that I was afraid, and so I agreed to the proposition. We then retired into a small room, in the centre of which stood a table, and arranging ourselves around it, called for three glasses of brandy. These were at once turned off, to begin with. Five minutes were allowed to pass, and then each drank half a pint of wine,—at the end of five minutes more, a strong draught of whiskey was taken, and so on until we had drank, besides these, ale, gin, and cider. This occupied just half an hour. By this time I began to feel a little light about the head. But I resolved not to be beaten, and so commenced and went through another course. By the time this was completed, the room seemed to be moving around; but brandy was again called for, and again the trial renewed. Four times did we drink, or at least, did I drink through this villainous series. The last thing I remember, was the vain effort to get a glass of cider to my mouth in the fourth round. I do not know whether I succeeded or not. When next conscious, I was lying on a bed, at home, with a physician by my side. My feelings were awful. It seemed as if my head would burst with the rending pain that throbbed through my temples; and my whole body felt as if swollen and benumbed by the heat of a large fire before which I seemed to be roasting alive. As soon as my recollection returned fully I became dreadfully alarmed, for it seemed impossible that I could live after what I had done. But, a good constitution carried me safely through.
               "On the third day I was able to go out. The first man I met was my friend Joe. He looked pale and feeble.
               "'I am really glad to see you, George!' he said, grasping my hand. 'I was afraid, from what I have myself suffered, that it was a gone case with you and Harry How is he? Have you heard from him?'
               "'No, I have not,' I replied.
               "'Suppose, then, we go around and see him?'
               "I assented, and we called at his house. His wife, for he was married, met us at the door. She was the picture of woe. Her eyes were red with weeping, and her face was pale, and wore an expression of deep heart-aching distress.
               "'How is Mr.—?' we asked, anxiously.
               "'Come in and see,' she said, and gave way for us to enter We followed, as she led on and in a moment or two entered a chamber where our friend lay, without life or motion, upon a bed. His eyes were half closed, and his face had a ghastly expression. As I paused, and bent over him, I placed my hand upon his forehead. Instantly I started back. That forehead was rigid and cold like marble.
               "'Dead!' I exclaimed, striking my hands together, while my head reeled, and I became sick and faint.
               "'Dead!' ejaculated Joe, staggering back, and sinking into a chair.
               "Ah, sir! That was a terrible moment! When I had so far recovered my senses as to look about me again, I saw his poor wife seated by the bedside, silent and tearless. One little girl, his eldest child, was sobbing in a corner of the room, and a little boy, not over two years of age, had crept to his mother's side, and crouching there, hid his face in her lap. As for her, the heart-stricken wife and mother, her grief seemed too deep for utterance. There was something cold and frozen in the expression of her eye and face—something that I could not comprehend—something that I do not like to think of even now.
               "We lingered in the chamber of death but a short time, and then went away. In the afternoon, we returned, by agreement, to make such arrangements for the funeral as were required under the circumstances. We knew that Mrs—had no one to perform these sad offices for her, and therefore, poorly as we both were, and much as we desired to shun so painful a scene as that which the house of our dead companion presented, we attended during that afternoon, and at the funeral, on the next day, to all the required arrangements.
               "As the company that attended the remains of Mr.—to the grave, turned away from the little hillock of fresh earth that marked the place where he was laid, Joe and I lingered behind.
               "'I really feel awful about this,' I said, as we still remained standing near the spot where we had laid our friend.
               "'Not worse than I do, George.'
               "'If you'll agree,' I said—'we will pledge ourselves here over Harry's grave, never, after this day, to drink a drop of any kind of liquor. We can do without it Joe, for neither of us, I believe, has tasted anything stronger than tea or coffee since that night. It doesn't do us any good—and has done us great harm.'
               "'Agreed,' was Joe's prompt response. And arm in arm we took our way, with slow steps, towards the city. Our temperance resolution dispelled, in some degree, the sad depression of our spirits, and by the time we came to the edge of town we were conversing quite cheerfully. As we were passing the Vauxhall Gardens, in Light street, Joe paused, and said:
               "'Come, George, let's have a drink!'
               "'Didn't we promise each other not to take any more liquor after to-day?' I replied.
               "'True! so we did.'
               "Then, after a pause, he added:
               "'But it's to-day yet. After to-day, we will not drink. So come along, let us treat resolution! This is sad business that we have been on, and a little spirits will cheer us up.'
               "The sight of the tavern in which I had drank so often, the idea of the liquor, suddenly conjured up in my mind, wrought so powerfully upon me, that it seemed almost impossible to resist the strong desire I felt for another drink.
               "'You are right, I believe,' I said, after a single moment's hesitation. And then we went in and called for brandy and water.
               "After drinking this, we sat down to look over the newspapers. I felt very comfortable, and quite happy in mind, as the pleasant excitement of the liquor began to pervade my whole body. Presently the appetite for another glass was felt, and I was just going to ask Joe to drink again, when he anticipated me, with—
               "'As this is our last day, George, we must make good use of it; so come, let us have another drink.'
               "I was ready to join him, of course. A third, a fourth, and a fifth drink followed in quick succession. And then we began to feel quite merry, and could even allude to our dead companion in a light and trifling way—
               "'Harry thought to use us up, all to pieces,' Joe said, laughing. 'But he wasn't half a man. I could kill a dozen like him.'
               "To this, I remember I responded with a loud laugh. It seemed exceedingly smart. And then both of us jested, gaily, about our recent drinking duel, as we called it.
               "It was after ten o'clock when we left the Vauxhall, and then we staggered off home, arm in arm.
               "On the next morning I felt wretched, and blamed myself for having violated the spirit and meaning of the pledge I had taken over Harry's grave. But during the morning I met Joe.
               "'Well, George,' he said, laying his hand familiarly upon my shoulder. 'Are you going to drink any more after to day?'
               "'No I am not,' I replied positively.
               "'Then come, let us treat resolution, and have a glorious spree while to-day lasts.'
               "'Joe! you are trifling in a serious matter!'
               "'Not a bit. You ain't going to drink any more after to-day, neither am I; and surely we ought to have one good time before we bid our old friend brandy good-bye. So come along, George, for I'm awful dry.'
               "And he caught me by the collar, and almost dragged me into a tavern near which we were standing. Once within the charmed precincts of a bar-room, all power of resistance was gone, and I drank eagerly and freely.
               "I made no further effort, to keep my twice broken pledge. Whenever Joe and I met, after that, the question usually was,
               "'Well Joe!' or 'Well George, when are you going to reform?'
               "'After to-day,' was, of course, the witty answer, and then came the response:—
               "Well, come along, and let us treat resolution.'
               "Since that time, until within a few weeks, Mr. President, I have been a regular drinker; becoming more and more enslaved every year to the debasing vice. But I will not detain this company by relating to them the particulars of an ill-spent, useless life; a life of wretchedness, and painful degradation. I sunk very low, sir, and I suffered much more than tongue can tell.
               "It was about five years ago, that Joe entered the United States army, as a private soldier. He had become so worthless that no one would give him work, and to prevent starving, or going to the poor-house, he enlisted.
               "From the day I parted with him at the fort, a few weeks after his enlistment, until six weeks ago, I neither saw nor heard of Joseph—. I knew not whether he were living or dead.
               "It is between one and two months since, that, as I was staggering up McLellan's alley, one night after having filled myself with liquor at Mrs. H—'s oyster house, I heard some one groan. I was near Fayette street, and the sound came from the entrance of the narrow alley that runs in the rear of the Fountain stables. I paused to listen, and the groaning was repeated. There was something in the sound that half sobered me, and produced an involuntary desire to go back a few steps and see who was suffering in such a deserted spot, at such an hour. As I obeyed this impulse, I became still further sobered.
               "'Who's there?' I cried, as I paused at the entrance of the alley.
               "My question was answered by a deep groan, almost at my feet. I started, and looking more narrowly around, saw a dark mass near where I stood. A closer observation revealed the figure of a man. To my repeated questions, the only answer I could get was groan after groan, that seemed of mortal agony. I took hold of him, and attempted to lift him up. But he had only one leg! In endeavoring to support him on this, I grasped at his right arm, and found in my hand but a small protruding stump!
               "I then laid him down gently, and went over to a house opposite, to get assistance. It happened to be the house of a temperance man.
               "'What do you want,' he asked, 'at this late hour?'
               "'I want help for a poor creature in the alley here, who is dying, I fear,' I replied.
               "'A drunkard, I suppose,' he said, as he reached for his hat.
               "'I should think so,' was my reply.
               "He accompanied me at once, and we succeeded, in a few minutes, in getting the poor wretch into his house He presented, indeed, a pitiable spectacle. He had but one arm and one leg; appeared to be drunk to unconsciousness; was sick, and perhaps dying. His face was shockingly distorted and disfigured by exposure and the effects of habitual drunkenness. Really I felt appalled as I looked at him, and thought that all this was rum's doings.
               "'What ails you?' asked the kind individual who had taken him in, as he laid him down before a good warm fire.
               "But the drunkard murmured something incoherent.
               "'Are you sick?' he inquired.
               "'Yes,' was half articulated, showing that he was in some degree conscious.
               "'What ails you? what can we do for you?' continued the man.
               "'Give me, ah—give me, ah—drink,' he replied, in a thick, muttering, drunken tone.
               "A glass of water was held to his lips, as I raised him, myself scarcely able to stand from intoxication.
               "'Ugh!' he ejaculated, as the water entered his mouth, starting back, and discharging what he had taken, with the strongest indications of disappointment and disgust.
               "'Gin, whiskey, rum, anything!' he now said with an earnest, rapid articulation, endeavoring to support himself with his hand—'Give me liquor or I shall die.
               "'I cannot give you liquor. But you shall have coffee, tea, anything you want, but liquor,' his stranger-friend replied, soothingly and kindly.
               "No—no—no! Give me liquor,' was the earnest response.
               "'Liquor will do you no good, my friend,' he replied and therefore I cannot give it to you. You must stop drinking, or it will kill you.'
               "'So I will stop, after to-day! Ha! ha! ha! Wasn't that a good joke!' And the poor wretch swung his single arm around his head in momentary excitement; but, alas! like the flashing up of the dying taper, it was the last feeble glimmer of life. He fell back, as his arm returned nerveless to his side, and, in a minute after, was a ghastly corpse.
               "Once again, in many years, I was perfectly sober. And I stood, horror-stricken, by the side of the mutilated, disfigured and lifeless body of my old friend Joe—. But the sight was too painful, and I turned away and left the house, sick at heart. I still had a home left; thanks to a neglected, abused, and sorrow-stricken creature, who clung, despite the remonstrances, advice, and anger of her friends, to the debased, unfeeling wretch she still called by the name of husband. But for her tender care, her unswerving affection, I should long ago have been dead. To my home I returned; my poor, comfortless home, and entered, just as the clock struck twelve. I found my patient wife still sitting up, and sewing by the light of a small dimly burning lamp. As I entered, she lifted her pale, thin face, and looked into my own with something so sad, so tender, so heart-touching in its expression, that I was affected almost to tears. How many, and many a time, no doubt, has she looked at me thus, and I too drunk to perceive or feel its import.
               "'Sarah,' I said, walking steadily towards her, for I was never more perfectly sober in my life: 'Sarah, I've quit drinking; from this moment I will never touch liquor again!'
               "O, sir if you could have seen that poor creature, as I did, start to her feet, and stand looking at me, for a moment or two, her face agitated with doubt and hope, fear and joy, you would have been moved to tears! But she saw that I was in earnest; she felt that I was in earnest, and springing to my side, she laid her head upon my shoulder, as I drew my arm tightly around her, and wept and sobbed passionately. But her tears were tears of joy and hope.
               "On the next day, I signed the pledge; and though still a sad, yet I trust, that I am a better and wiser man. As for my home, there has been sunlight there ever since. O, sir! This pledge:"
               But the man's voice trembled—tears sprung to his eyes; and, overcome by emotion, he was forced to take his seat.
            
            
               SIGNING THE PLEDGE.
               THE time had gone on until nearly ten o'clock, and, as the last speaker took his seat, Mr. Mitchell, the President, rose, and in a brief, but pertinent address, invited and urged those who had not yet done so, to come forward and sign the pledge. The Secretary was then directed to read the pledge, which was done. After this followed a scene hard to be described.
               "Come along," cried the President, as the Secretary resumed his seat. "Who will sign first to-night? Ah! there he comes! The very man for whom I have been waiting these two months. That's right, friend L—. I thought we should get hold of the same end of the rope again. Many a drinking frolic, and fishing frolic have we been on, together! And now we strike hands again;" grasping the hand of the individual he was addressing, who had, by this time, reached the secretary's table—"and shoulder to shoulder, hand to hand, and heart to heart, will we wage together, a war of extermination against old KING ALCOHOL and all his emissaries!"
               The man who had gone forward was one well known in the community. He was an old drinker, and, although he had, from a strong resolution, been able thus far, to keep from sinking into a low and abandoned state, yet, his example and encouragement had been exceedingly pernicious, and very many, who had commenced drinking with him, had already become mere sots. For a time, he had sneered at the temperance movement. But he had now yielded to its imposing claims.
               "You never did a better deed than that in your life, friend L—!" the President said in a lively, exulting tone, as the man rose from the secretary's table "And now who will come next?"
               "Come along!" I heard a man say, in an under tone, near me, and I turned to observe him. He had a miserable looking creature—bloated, disfigured, ragged and filthy—by the arm, and was endeavoring to urge him to go up and sign. But the drunkard hesitated and held back.
               "Come! come! Go up, now! You will never repent it!" urged the temperance man.
               "I do n't think its any use," the poor creature said. "I'm sure I can't keep it."
               "O yes you can! I know you can! There's old B—, who drank harder than you ever did. He signed last night."
               "He did?" in tones of surprise.
               "Certainly he did! And so did Mr.—, who had n't drawn a sober breath in fifteen years."
               "But they can't keep it, I know they can't."
               "You don't know any such thing! I know that they can keep it, and will keep it. And there's Mr. F—, there, you know what a sot he was? He signed two months ago. Look at him now. He's well dressed, looks cheerful, and has n't a carbuncle on his nose, that used to be as rough as the Liberty road, and as red as scarlet. Now do come along and sign to-night!"
               "If I though—"
               "Don't think any thing about it. Go right up and sign, and you are safe."
               And as he said this, he gave the drunkard's arm a slight pull, and he yielded, and suffered himself to be led up to the secretary's table, where he sat down and signed.
               "Now don't you feel better?" asked his persevering friend, as the two returned to their seats near me.
               "Yes, I do,—a great deal better."
               "Of course; and you are not sorry that you have signed, I know."
               "O no. I'm glad now. And I feel that I can keep it." The smile that lit up his disfigured face, and the air of confidence that he assumed, were indeed pleasant to look upon.
               "Ten names already!" the President now cried out, loud and cheerfully, "and the table crowded. Come along! we have room for hundreds and thousands; we'll stay here all night if you'll keep coming."
               For about a quarter of an hour the table was crowded with men of all conditions in life, and of all grades of drunkenness; from the moderate drinker of two and three glasses a day, to the wretched inebriate whose intolerable thirst forty or fifty "drinks" a day, could not satiate.
               "Sixty names!" said the President, as the space in front of the secretary's table became once more vacant. "We must have more than that number to-night. Yes, come along my friend!" he continued, his voice changing, to one of encouragement and sympathy, as he looked steadily towards the door. "Come along my friend, and we will do thee good!"
               I glanced, as did many others, in the direction his eye indicated, and there, just within the door stood a man, who seemed half intoxicated. A woman, evidently his wife, was holding on to his arm, and apparently urging him to go forward and sign the pledge. Still he hesitated, and she urged with an earnestness that seemed all unconscious of the presence of a crowd. There was an immediate, profound silence throughout the room.
               "Do go, John!" I could now hear the woman urging. "Do go! and we shall be so happy!"
               "Yes, John, come along!" the President said, taking up the earnest persuasion of his wife—"and we shall all be so happy. Come along, my good man!"
               The poor wife, thus suddenly conscious that all eyes were upon her, seemed painfully confused, and shrunk into the shadow of the entrance to the room. Her husband felt the general impulse, and started forward towards the secretary's table. All was again hushed into profound silence. As he took the pen into his hand, and commenced writing his name, a sudden burst of weeping, half suppressed, was heard, distinctly, at the door. I am sure that there was not a dry eye in the house. My own were running over with blinding tears. But they were tears of joy Who can tell—who can imagine the gladness of that poor wife's heart? After the man had signed, he returned to the door, and went out.
               "O John, how happy I feel!" I could hear the wife say; and then both disappeared together.
               "I can't stand that!" a man muttered in a low, but earnest voice, near me, rising to his feet as he spoke. "I must make my poor wife happy, too."
               And he walked resolutely up to the table and signed.
               "Come along, we are waiting!" again urged the President. "Don't put it off a single day. Come along, and make your wives happy, as John did just now. None of you like to see their faces clouded, and yet how can sunshine rest there while you are neglecting and abusing them? Come along! Why eighty signed at the last meeting, and here we have only sixty-two. Surely we havn't got all the drunkards yet! O no. I see three or four down there that ought to sign. So come along my boys! If you want excitement, come and get a little of this tetotal excitement. It makes one feel a thousand times better than rum-excitement, and produces no after consequences but good ones. Ah! there comes another!—and another! and another! That's the way. One helps another. You don't know how much good you may do by coming forward. You influence one, and he another, and he another, and they others, until from the impulse given by a single individual, hundreds are brought in. There were only six at first, and now we have hundreds upon hundreds. Suppose these six had held back, where would we all have been? Come along then, and do your duty to yourselves and society.'
               To this about ten more responded.
               The last but one who signed was, like many who had inscribed their names before him, poorly clad, and miserable in appearance. He came up reluctantly, urged and argued with at almost every step of the way by a person who seemed to take a deep interest in him.
               "You must sign, Thomas! I shall never give you a moment's rest until you sign," I heard him say to the reluctant drunkard, who paused near where I was sitting, "I have helped to ruin you, and I shall have no peace until you are reclaimed."
               "Let me have another week to think about it, Mr. W—."
               "Another week, Thomas! Surely your poor wife and children have suffered enough already! Think of them and be a man."
               This had the effect to cause the drunkard to move onward. But he paused again and again. At last, however, the table was reached, the pen placed in his hand, and his name inscribed.
               How light was his step! How cheerful and resolute his air as he came down the aisle! I could hardly realize that it was the same individual.
               "Ain't you glad that you have done it, Thomas?" his friend said, as they passed me.
               "Indeed I am! But it was a hard struggle. I wanted to do it, and yet it was not easy to give up the liquor. But it's done now, and I am glad enough!"
               "Any more?" the President asked.
               "Yes, one more at least," said a man near the door, rising to his feet. "You've just got my last customer, and now you might as well have me. I've sold liquor for fifteen years. But you temperance folks have broken me up. And now I am forced to try some better and honester means of getting a living."
               And so saying, he walked resolutely up to the table, and signed the pledge.
               "And now, friend P—," the President said to him, "what are you going to do with the liquid fire you have on hand?"
               "What am I going to do with it?" in a tone of surprise.
               
               "Yes, what are you going to do with it?"
               "As to that," the man replied, "I never gave the subject a thought."
               "You won't sell it, I hope?"
               "And why not?"
               "Sell poison!"
               "What shall I do? Give it away?"
               "O no. That would be as bad."
               "Well, sir, what would you do, if you were in my place?"
               "Why I would throw every drop of it in the gutter. It will hurt no one there. You needn't be afraid of the hogs getting drunk, for a hog won't touch it."
               "My liquors cost a good deal."
               "No doubt of it. How much do you think?"
               "Two hundred dollars, I should suppose."
               "No more?"
               "I think not."
               "There must be some mistake in your calculation," the President said: "You have forgotten the sighs and tears of abused and neglected wives and children. The money that bought your liquor cost all these, and more."
               The man paused a moment, and then said, emphatically:
               "I'll do it! I've made enough men drunk in my time!"
               And thus saying, he turned away and mingled with the crowd.
               The books were then closed, seventy-five having signed the pledge that night. A few remarks were added by the President, and then the meeting broke up, and I returned home.
               "How many a heart has been made glad to-night!" I said as I threw myself upon my bed, and lay, for hours, musing over the wonderful things I had seen, before my senses were locked in slumber.
               
               
                  
                     THE BOTTLE.
                     SCENE 4th.—UNABLE TO OBTAIN EMPLOYMENT, THEY ARE DRIVEN BY POVERTY INTO THE STREETS TO BEG, AND BY THIS MEANS THEY STILL SUPPLY THE BOTTLE.
                  
               
            
            
               THE TAVERN-KEEPER.
               
               THE TAVERN-KEEPER.
               "COME, friend W—," said the President, during the evening on which I paid my third visit to the Washingtonians, "let us have your experience. That story about the 'Drunkard's Bible' has gone right home to the hearts and consciences of two or three tavern-keepers already, and there is no telling how much good may result from your coming out openly, and relating all you know of the evils of rum selling.'
               It was some moments before the individual thus addressed responded to the call made upon him by the President of the society. He was, evidently, unwilling to recall the past. But at length he arose, and proceeded to give in his experience. It contained much of deep and painful interest, but many touching scenes were glanced at so briefly that I was far from being satisfied when he resumed his seat. I called upon him afterwards, and prevailed upon him to relate, more minutely than he had done at the meeting, the incidents that had struck me as of a peculiarly interesting character. These I now give in such a form as I think calculated to make the deepest and most salutary impression. I trust that no tavern keeper (seller of intoxicating drinks) will turn away from this number under the fear that I am going to overwhelm him with an effusion of gall and bitterness. I design only to lift for him a mirror, in which he may see his own reflection—and surely he will not shut his eyes to this pictured image, when all men look upon him and see him as he really is.
               THE TAVERN-KEEPER.
               "I shall not attempt to justify myself," he said, "for having been a tavern-keeper. I might make many plausible excuses, but I will not conceal the fact that my reasons for first commencing, and afterwards continuing the traffic, were thoroughly selfish. I sought to benefit myself only, regardless who might be injured. It is true that I thought but little of the consequences to others, unless the subject were presented to me by some friend of temperance and humanity, and then I sought excuses; or if these did not avail to check his expostulations, I would get angry and tell him, perhaps, that he had no business to meddle with what did not concern him.
               "I was a journeyman mechanic when I first went into the business of selling liquor, and could earn, regularly, about thirteen dollars a week. I had two children, and was living very comfortably. But I was dissatisfied because I could not get ahead in the world. I wanted to make money fast. For some time I debated the propriety of commencing my business as a master-workman; but I had no capital, and dreaded getting in debt. At last it occurred to me, suggested no doubt by an evil spirit, that the most certain way to make money would be to open a small liquor store. Almost every one of my friends and acquaintances drank, and I thought that they might as well spend their money with me as with any one else. I talked with several of them, and they encouraged me to enter the business, promising me their custom.
               "From only one individual did I meet with opposition, and that individual was my wife.
               "'Ann,' said I to her one day after I had pretty well made up my mind to open a grog shop, 'I believe I will try something else for a living; I have to work very hard now, and only make a bare subsistence.'
               "'But what will you do?' she asked with an expression of concern.
               "'I've been thinking about opening a small tavern: it requires hardly any capital, and money can be made at the business. There is Wartman, who keeps down in the Marsh Market Space; he commenced with only five dollars, and now he is making money like dirt.'
               "'Indeed I would not, Thomas,' she replied earnestly, while a shadow fell upon her face.
               "'But why would you not, Ann? I'm sure it is the easiest and most profitable business now going.'
               "'That may be; but still, Thomas, I would'nt go into it.'
               "'You must give some reason for your objection, Ann,' I said—'I have all the burden of providing for the family, and unless you can show me that it is wrong to keep a tavern, you ought not to make any opposition.'
               "'I'm afraid it is wrong, Thomas,' she replied, in a more serious tone.
               "'Wrong, Ann! how can you possibly make that out?'
               "'There are so many drunken husbands and fathers now, and so many suffering wives and children in consequence, that I feel that it would be wrong for us to engage in the sale of liquor.'
               "'But don't you see, Ann,' I urged, 'that we have nothing to do with that? These men will drink, anyhow. If I do not open a shop, they will drink none the less in consequence; and why should I lose all the benefit to be derived from the sale of liquor because a few wretched creatures abuse a good thing and make beasts of themselves.'
               "'Still, Thomas,' urged my wife, 'I would rather that you would not open a shop; I am sure we are getting along very well; I have all that I want, and am very happy in our present lot.'
               "'But don't you see that our family is increasing?' I said, 'and by and by we shall not be able to get along so comfortably as we now do.'
               "'Let us trust in Providence, Thomas, and continue in a useful calling, from which no harm can possibly come to our neighbor,' Ann replied, not at all convinced by my method of reasoning.
               "But my mind was so nearly made up, that no argument or persuasion on the part of my wife could move me. In a short time I found a small house in Water street, into which I moved, with my family, and opened a liquor store.
               "Among my first customers were three of my fellow-workmen, all steady men and temperate in their habits. They did not belong to a temperance society, for we had no temperance societies then; but they were not fond of drinking, and rarely went to a tavern. They were all married men, and all had children. As soon as I opened, these three men became regular visitors; they seemed to feel it a duty to encourage me, and drank more with that end in view than from any fondness for liquor. But I could soon perceive that an appetite was forming; and this discovery pleased me very much, at the same time that it produced in my mind a feeling of contempt for their weakness. It pleased me, because, as I had only a purely selfish end in view, I was gratified with every indication that the end I had proposed to myself would be attained. I saw that, from selling them only a glass or two every evening, I should ere long come to sell them a dozen or two glasses every day! These were the kind of customers I wanted—men who would spend some four or five dollars a week at my counter, regularly.
               "The names of my three friends were Harrison Williams, Gustavus Ensler, and Manning Gray. Williams, at the time I opened my shop, had three children, a girl and two boys; the girl ten years old, and the boys, who were twins, seven years of age. His wife was a tidy woman, and took great pleasure in having everything around her neat and comfortable. She was tenderly attached to her husband and loved her children with a mother's earnest affection.
               "One evening, about five months after I had commenced my new business, my wife said to me:
               "'I saw Mrs. Williams in the street to-day, and she seemed so changed; she was pale, and had such a distressed look, my heart has ached for her ever since. What can be the matter? Something has gone wrong. She used to be so tidy and cheerful.'
               "'It's not so much to be wondered at,' I replied,—Williams has taken to drinking like a fish.'
               "'O Thomas! is it possible!' my wife said, with an expression of pain in her countenance; 'he did n't drink a few months ago, for it is not long since I heard Mrs. Williams speak about her husband's being so steady and attentive to his family.'
               "I did not reply to this, for I remembered, rather too keenly, that for this declension I was responsible. But I dismissed the thought instantly. On the next day, while on the street for a few minutes, I met the wife of Williams returning from market. The day was a cold one, but she was poorly clad. How sad and distressed was the expression of her countenance! I can remember it, ever now, for the recollection has been rendered vivid by many and many a dream, in which her troubled face was presented.
               "I felt uneasy in mind for hours after. There was something in her countenance when I met her that, once seen, could not soon be forgotten. It haunted me like an upbraiding spectre. That evening her husband came in as usual to drink in my bar-room. I looked at him as he came up to the counter and called for his first glass, more attentively than I had regarded him for some time. His face was not red and bloated as are the faces of many who drink to excess, but was thin and pale. Just as he was about to lift to his lips the liquor I had poured out for him, he was seized with a violent fit of coughing. That cough was as familiar to my ear as his voice; I had heard it in that room a hundred times, but had never remarked it particularly before.
               "'That's a very bad cough,' I said.
               "'Yes, and I'm afraid it will kill me,' he replied.
               "'It most certainly will, unless you quit drinking,' I had it on my tongue to say. But the thought of the four or five dollars a week that I received from him, regularly choked the humane admonition!
               "'If he hasn't sense enough to see what's for his own good, he must go on as he is; it is no concern of mine, and I shall not meddle with it,' I said to myself as I turned to wait on another customer. How often have I reasoned thus with myself, when the victim of the allurements which I had displayed for the weak and the unwary has stood before me!
               "After this, I never could hear the loud, hollow, convulsive cough of my old fellow-workman without an unpleasant sensation.
               "'You had better see a doctor about that cough, Williams,' I would say to him sometimes; or, 'You had better take care of that cough,' or, 'Do try and have something done for that cough!' But I never could bring myself to say—'You had better quit drinking, Williams, or that cough will kill you.'
               "In about a year from the time I opened my grog shop, Williams became a perfect sot. Between ill health, brought on by drinking, and his indisposition, from intemperate habits, to work, he abandoned all attempts to provide for his family. The burden, of course, fell upon his wife; a burden which she was not able to bear. From a comfortable, well furnished house, she was driven, with her children, to a single room, in the garret of an old building in Commerce street. Alas! what a change for one short year to accomplish! Ah! sir. the thought of that ruined family has been a thorn in my pillow many and many a time. But, with a resolute effort I steadily endeavored to harden my heart against the weakness, as I esteemed it, that made me feel troubled at such things.
               "'I am not responsible,' I would argue, 'for these consequences: I do not tell men to get drunk and abuse their families; I do not wish them to do so. Liquor is good in its place, and so is bread and meat; but either used to excess is injurious. If I were to sell a man a razor, and he were to cut his throat, or a pistol, and he were to blow his brains out, surely I would not be responsible! If I don't sell liquor somebody else will, and as people will buy it I can see no reason why I should not have the profit to be gained in the sale of it, as well as any one else.'
               "Thus would I drive back and stifle the remonstrances within; and every time I did so, these remonstrances grew weaker and weaker.
               "At last Williams became so feeble from the disease, the predisposing cause to which had been excited by drink, that he could only just creep about. He would come to my shop when he had no money and almost beg for liquor, which I would give him sometimes, and often refuse him. I could see the evil of his condition far more clearly when he had no money to pay me for liquor than I could when from one to five dollars of his money went into my till weekly. I could say to him now—
               "'Williams, you had better stop drinking, or you cannot live; it is drink that excites your cough: try and quit it now, and I have no doubt but that you will recover again.'
               "But my good advice came too late; both the disease and appetite were too deeply rooted. Unlike many wives, during this period of dreadful trial, Mrs. Williams never upbraided, never spoke unkindly to her husband; and he was, I have learned, never ill tempered at home.
               "For a time the wife and mother was enabled, through incessant toil, early and late, to procure food for her children: but they were often reduced to pressing extremities. Sometimes the children would come to my shop for their father. I never liked this, for there was about them a look of patient suffering that troubled my conscience. They seemed to love their father tenderly, and their presence always appeared to awaken kind feelings in his bosom, enslaved as he was to the dreadful vice that had ruined himself, and entailed upon his family privation and misery in their worst forms. The daughter, then about eleven years of age, had the saddest face that I ever saw worn by a child. It was not disfigured, or rendered in its expression intensely painful, but in its quiet, unobtrusive, yet patient look of hopeless suffering there was something that must have excited tears in any one, not hardened as I already was.
               "It was, I think, about eighteen months after Williams had commenced visiting my shop regularly, that he failed to make his usual daily visits. I felt relieved at this, for his presence had worried me for some time. He rarely had any money to spend for liquor, and there was already a score against him which I knew it was impossible for me to collect. But, beside all this, I could not shut my eyes to the fact that in him was presented one of the first fruits of my experiment in tavern-keeping. Reason as I would upon the subject, I could not make it appear, even to my own mind, that I was altogether guiltless in his ruin.
               "For nearly two months, I saw nothing more of him. And I never made inquiry, for I dreaded to hear his name mentioned.—But, one morning, about this time, his little girl came in. How I did shrink from this unwelcome apparition. She looked pale and distressed—was poorly clad and barefoot.
               "'Mr. W—,' she said, coming up to the bar, 'father wishes to see you, if you will please to come down to our house.'
               "'I can't spare the time, little girl,' I replied. 'Why can't your father come and see me?'
               "'Because he's sick. And he has been sick for a good while.'
               "'Is he very sick?' I asked.
               "'O yes. He can't sit up but a little at a time, and then he coughs, oh, so dreadfully!'
               "'What does he want to see me for?'
               "I don't know, sir. But he does want to see you so bad! Do come, Mr. W—!'
               "There was something in the manner and tone of the child that I could not resist, and so I promised that I would call down and see her father in the course of the morning. It was about two hours after that I entered one of those old brick houses that used to stand in Commerce above Pratt street—now displaced by a row of large warehouses On asking for Williams' family, I was directed to ascend to the garret. Up three pairs of dirty and dilapidated stairs I went until I reached the attic. There I paused, before entering one of the apartments, into which I could see, though unperceived myself. I shall never forget what I there witnessed, though I have tried hundreds and hundreds of times to drive it from my memory. The noise of my ascending steps had been drowned to the inmates of that meagrely furnished room, by the convulsive cough that racked the frame of poor Williams.
               "'Let me get up, Mary,' I heard him say, as the cough subsided. 'I shall die if I do not sit up!'
               "Then I could see him trying to raise himself from the bed, while his wife gently drew her arm around him, and then let his head fall upon her bosom.
               "'There, that will do, will it not?' she said tenderly, as his head reclined a little backwards.
               "'O no, no, Mary! I shall suffocate! Let me get up and sit in a chair for a little while.' And then his cough returned, agitating his whole frame violently.
               "When this subsided, his wife assisted him to get upon the floor, and then, for the first time in many weeks, I saw his face. O, how thin and pale it was! And in it there was the ghastly expression of death!
               "'There, that will do,' he said in a feeble voice as he sunk into a chair, and let his head recline upon the bosom of his wife, while she held his body in an erect position.
               "All was in a few moments as still as if no living beings were in that miserable room. His two little barefooted boys seated themselves near him, with an earnest affection that his conduct towards his family had not been able to change, and while one looked up to him with a sorrowful countenance, the other hid his face, and wept noiselessly. As for the daughter who had called for me, her heart seemed touched by a consciousness that the worst had come. She stood near, weeping, but in silence.
               "For a moment or two I hesitated whether to enter or retire. 'Why does he wish to see me?' I asked of myself. 
                     Pererhaps
                     Perhaps
                   to upbraid me with having ruined him and beggared his family,' was the inward response.
               "I could not but shudder at such thoughts, as I stood with Williams's distressed family before me; for I felt conscious that I had, indeed, been the cause of all this—and conscious, likewise, that death was very near, even upon the threshold of that humble apartment.
               "I debated the question only for a few moments. Another violent fit of coughing disturbed the deep silence of the room, when I retired, the noise of my footsteps unobserved. Thus coward-like I retreated, for I could not face that man in life's last extremity, amid the sad mementoes of the ruin I had occasioned.
               "He died in an hour after. I have never known why he wished to see me. As for his distressed family they were taken away from the city by some friends who lived in a neighboring town, and I have never, since that moment, seen one of its members. But, if not present to my bodily eyes, they were, for many months afterwards, ever present to my mental vision.
               "Ah, sir, is not the ruin of that family's hopes and happiness a terrible thing to have upon a man's conscience? I feel it so. For, look at it as I will, reason about it as I will, I cannot convince myself that I am not altogether responsible for Williams's degradation, and the ruin of his family. He was, as I have said, a temperate, industrious man, kind and provident to his family, when I opened my shop. And he came to my shop, at first, only under the kind and friendly impulse of assisting me by his custom in my new business. But in so doing, the appetite for liquor was formed and he was lost and his family ruined A strange return indeed did I make him for his kind and generous feelings.
               "If I ever repented seriously of having opened a shop for the sale of liquor, it was after the death of Mr. Williams. For weeks I was a sadder man But gradually, as I resisted the impulse which I felt to give up the ruinous traffic, that impulse became weaker and weaker, and, at last, I could again pour out and mix liquors for a thirsty drunkard, who was reducing himself and his family to a state of ruin and degradation, without a single reproving emotion.
               "'I never felt so bad in my life, as I did yesterday, remarked Gustavus Ensler, one of my old fellow workmen, mentioned as among my earliest customers, coming in for his glass on the day after Williams's funeral.
               "'Why?' I asked, not thinking, at the moment, to what he alluded.
               "'To see poor Williams carried out of that garret as he was!'
               "'Is Williams dead?' inquired one who had often seen him drinking at my bar.
               "'Yes, poor fellow;' Ensler said. 'He has gone to his long home.'
               "'I thought he couldn't stand it a great while the last time I saw him,' the other said.
               "'What ailed him?'
               "'Consumption,' I replied, quickly.
               "'Consumption brought on by drinking!' Ensler said, coolly and deliberately, looking me steadily in the face. 'That was it, I believe Mr. W—. Do n't you think so?'
               "'No! I do not think so,' I responded, in a positive tone of voice.
               "'Well I do then. And what is more, I know so! Before you opened this shop, Mr. W—, he had n't a sign of a cough. And you know that he did n't drink a drop then once in a month. But after he began drinking pretty hard, his cough commenced and grew worse and worse until it killed him.'
               "'Well, I do n't believe a word of it!' I said doggedly. He would have died anyhow.'
               "'Not in a garret at least!' Ensler said, looking at me significantly.
               "'What do you mean?' I asked in an angry tone, for I felt that more was implied than were contained in his words.
               "'I'll tell you what I mean,' said my old fellow work man, now a little excited by liquor, straightening himself up, and eyeing me steadily, and somewhat contemptuously. 'I mean, that if you had n't taught him to love liquor in this confounded grog shop of yours, and then taken away all his money that should have gone to the support of his family, he would n't have died in a garret. That is what I mean!'
               "'Truth bites sore,' is a homely but expressive adage. I felt the truth of what Ensler said, and if roused me into a violent passion.
               "'Go out of my shop, you insulting scoundrel!' I responded, loud and angrily, coming out from the bar, and confronting him in the middle of the room.
               "'I'll go out when I please,' was his cool reply.
               "'If you don't go out I will kick you out!' This I said with a determination to do what I threatened.
               "'Two can play at such a game, remember,' he said, calmly, still eyeing me without the slightest apparent sensation of fear. Seeing that I hesitated to put my threat into execution, he added, as he took a deep inspiration,
               "'And now, Mr. W—, that I feel in the humor, I will tell you a piece of my mind that I have long wished to speak out. In my opinion you are little better than a land-pirate. It is true, you do n't kill bodies for money—but you do worse. You corrupt and ruin souls, and trifle with the hopes and happiness of whole families for gain. You kill the better part for gold! Eighteen months ago, there were, in this city, three happy families, at the heads of which were three sober, industrious, and kind husbands and fathers. At that time you opened this shop, and invited those husbands and fathers to come up and help you to get along in the world. And they came. They bought your liquor, not because they loved to drink it, but because they wished to encourage their fellow workman. But, they soon got to love it, and you encouraged them to drink. You saw their danger, and instead of warning them, you spread new allurements in their way, thus wooing and wooing them on to ruin, that you might build yourself up upon their downfall. You have increased in worldly goods—and they have decreased. Yesterday one of your victims was buried from a garret—was taken out from amid his half-starving wife and children, and buried in the potter's field! The other I saw staggering in the street as I came here this morning; and here is the third, a poor, fallen, debased drunkard! Look at your handy work!'
               "And the poor creature drew himself up and stood confronting me.
               "'Out of my house this instant, or I will be the death of you!' I cried, passionately, advancing a step towards him in a menacing attitude.
               "But he did not move a foot or change a muscle.
               "'There is little left to kill,' he said in a mournful tone, seeing that I hesitated. 'You have begun the work, it is but meet that you should finish it. Strike! I am ready!'
               "There was a moral dignity in the voice, manner, and expression of the poor wretch whom I had been instrumental in ruining, that subdued me. I could not touch him. My anger subsided, and I felt as I never felt before. O, how wretched, and conscience-stricken!
               "'Go away, Gustavus,' I said in a changed voice. 'Go away, and do not come here any more. If I have been the cause, as you say that I have, of your ruin, be your own saviour from that ruin. Go away! Quit drinking, and be a man again.'
               "I felt some touches of kindness towards him, and my voice expressed my feelings. He looked at me for a moment or two, and then bursting into tears, said—
               "'I will be a man again! From this hour I will never drink a drop!!'
               "Then he turned away slowly and left my house.
               "'Why what in the world has come over our old crony Gus?' said Manning Gray, the other individual of the trio of friends whom my shop had ruined, on the next morning as he came in.
               "What is the matter with him?' I asked in some concern.
               
               "'He 's sworn off, he says,' Gray replied, laughing in great glee at what seemed to him a good joke.
               "'Sworn off from drinking?' I inquired.
               "'Yes, he says he's not going to touch another drop of liquor as long as he lives! Ha! ha! ha!'
               "'Well, Manning, do you know what I would do if I were in your place?' I said.
               "'No. What would you do?'
               "'Why I would follow his example.'
               "'Swear off?'
               "'Yes.'
               "'You 're joking?'
               "'I never was more serious in my life,' I said. And I was serious. I had seen enough of Williams and Ensler. I had found that it was no light thing to be instrumental in ruining a friend. Not that I cared for others—I cared only for myself, and sought merely to save myself from unpleasant consequences.
               "'You have drunk long enough and hard enough,' I continued. 'Stop now, while there is some little power left.'
               Ha! ha!' he responded gaily. 'Our landlord has turned temperance preacher! That is too good! No, no, friend W—, you do n't come it over me in that way. Give us a gin toddy, and make it good and strong.'
               "'No, Manning, I will do no such thing.' I replied. 'I have sold you the last glass of liquor that you will ever drink at my bar.'
               "'You are not in earnest, W—,' he said, his manner becoming instantly changed.
               "'Yes I am in earnest,' was my positive answer.
               "It was fully half an hour before I got him to leave my house. During that time he used towards me the severest and most insulting language that he could utter, all of which I endeavored to bear in the best way that I could. It availed nothing that I steadily persisted in not selling him liquor, he still continued to drink and neglect his family, and died finally in the street, a drunkard to the last!
               "But Ensler became a sober, industrious man, and in the course of a year or two, had everything around him again comfortable.
               "As for myself, I found the sale of liquor to be profitable, and commenced gradually to accumulate a little money Two years after I had opened my grog shop in Water street, I was offered the tavern on—road, about six miles from the city. It was represented to have a good wagon and travellers' custom, and as I had money enough already laid by to purchase the necessary furniture, I accepted the proposition and moved out. My family then consisted of my wife and three children, the eldest, a boy, about eleven years of age.
               "While moving in my furniture, a venerable old man waited on me, and introduced himself as a minister, who had lived in the little town upon the edge of which the tavern stood, for the last thirty years. I, of course, received him kindly, and invited him to walk in and sit down.
               "'So you are to be our new tavern-keeper,' he said, with a smile, after we were seated alone.
               "'Yes,' I replied, with a feeling of self-satisfaction at the position of importance that I was evidently about to occupy in the village. 'I have come here for that purpose.'
               "'Well, tavern-keepers are very useful people,' the old man said. 'But there is one thing about which I should like to talk with you, before you open your house. All who have been here before you, have kept a bar for the sale of liquors; and it has done great harm in our village. Now, as a lover of mankind, I feel bound to approach you, thus early, upon this subject, and I do hope that you will regard my remonstrance against the sale of liquor.'
               "'But that would never do, sir,' I replied. 'Who ever heard of a tavern without a bar?'
               "'I know' he said, in a mild tone, 'that it is usual for those who keep houses of entertainment for travellers and the public, to sell intoxicating liquors but I never could see why this was necessary.'
               
               "'It is necessary, for, in its sale, lies the principal source of profit derived from the business.'
               "'But, surely, my friend,' the old man urged—'a mere question of dollars and cents should never decide any one to do a thing that will injure his neighbor. And, certainly, to tempt those who are too weak to resist an inclination thus tempted, is to do a very great injury.'
               "'You would have me to be too disinterested,' I replied. 'I might starve to death for the good of my neighbors, and they would n't thank me for it. And besides if I did n't sell liquor to people who wanted it, they would go somewhere else and get it.'
               "'I know, my friend,' the minister said, in his mild, yet earnest way—'that your last argument is thought to be a very strong one. But it will not apply with its usual force here. We have no place in our village where liquor is sold.'
               "'You have a store, I am sure,' I said interrupting him.
               "'True. But the man who keeps it has a conscientious regard to the good of his neighbor. He does not sell liquor.'
               "'Why, I never heard of such a thing!' I responded, inwardly delighted at the idea that I should have a monopoly of the business.
               "'Still it is true in this instance. And I most earnestly hope that I shall be able to prevail on you to follow so good an example.
               "At this I shook my head.
               "'I do not profess to be quite so disinterested,' was my answer, 'as all that comes to. I keep tavern for my own benefit, the same as you preach for your benefit. People are free agents, you tell us, and if they want liquor, they should be free to drink it. I shall, therefore, most certainly keep it, and sell it to all who wish to buy.'
               "The old man looked deeply and painfully concerned at this, and once more attempted to influence me.
               "'Surely,' he urged, "you cannot speak your real sentiments. Every man is bound to regard the effect which his conduct will have upon others. I cannot think that you are so 
                     throughly
                     thoroughly
                   devoted to gain, as to shut out from your mind every benevolent feeling. The man who robs another of his money, only acts independent of law, upon the same principle that you profess to act under the protection of the law. He has only a regard for himself, and looks upon all mankind as fit subjects of plunder. You, acting upon such motives as you declare, in engaging in a traffic that injures your fellow men, do not really stand, in a moral point of view, upon a higher basis. He takes away their money forcibly, while they are in a rational state of mind—you render them, in a certain sense, irrational, and take the money which they freely tender while in that state. Now, seriously, my friend, discriminate, if you can, between the moral guilt of the two actions. Both are under the promptings of a selfishness that has no regard for others. The one takes the money of his victims by violent means—the other, by allurements spread forth for a depraved appetite, secures to himself their money, and not only beggars those who yield it, even if it be given voluntarily, but brutalizes them, and entails the deepest misery and often the greatest sufferings upon their families. Ah, sir! viewed in this aspect, the effect of the man's acts upon society who sells intoxicating liquor, is a thousand times more injurious than that of the robber who takes only the gold of the individual he plunders.'
               "There was the power of truth in what the old man said. But the truth, when brought into opposition to what a man not only wishes, but is resolved to do, always irritates him. I, of course, felt very angry at what the minister said, and replied in an excited tone,
               "'I cannot suffer myself to be insulted in my own house, even by an old man and a minister! You class me with thieves and robbers, and then try to influence me, even while you declare that I am worse than those outlaws who plunder society. I will not hear such language, sir!'
               "'Pardon me,' the old man said, meekly, 'if I have offended you. I did not wish to do so. I only presented, in the strongest possible light, your acts as a seller of intoxicating toxicating drink, in the hope that such a view would influence you. If you do not see that view to be the correct one, I cannot but regret it exceedingly. The consequence to many in this village, if you persist, will be, I know, deplorable.' And the old man's voice trembled, and had in it something very mournful.
               "To this, I made some angry reply that cut short the interview, and then the minister retired. Of course his visit troubled me. But I shook off its influence, as well as I could, and went on to arrange my bar, and make as handsome a display of my liquors as possible. In a few days I was ready to open my tavern and receive customers. I had everything very neatly arranged, so as to make my house attractive as a place of resort, both to the young men of the village, and for the reception of such visitors as I expected from the city during the summer season.
               "On the evening of the day upon which I announced, by handbill, that my tavern was open, and my bar well stocked with the choicest liquors, I had about a dozen visitors, principally residents of the village. They admired the arrangement of my bar, complimented me on my taste, and drank and paid for my liquors freely, which they pronounced to be of the very best quality.
               "Among them was a young man, whose appearance interested me at once. He was not, apparently, over twenty years of age. His dress, manners, and language, indicated that he was far superior in education to any of those with whom he was associated. I observed that he drank often and freely—the consequence was, that he became partially intoxicated early in the evening.
               "'Now give us a song Samuel!' said one of the company, about nine o'clock, slapping him on the shoulder.
               "'Yes, a song! a song! Nobody can sing a song like Sam Harman!' responded another.
               "'Would you prefer a song to a hymn tune, or a hymn to a song tune?' the young man replied, with a grave air.
               "'Oh, a hymn to a song tune of course!' replied one.
               "'No—no—' said another, 'a song to a hymn tune.'
               "At last the matter was settled, and a song was sung with fine effect.
               "'Now let us have a sermon,' cried one.
               "'Yes, a sermon! a sermon!' ran around the room.
               "And in a few moments the young man was mounted on a chair. He took a text, and went on to preach for about ten minutes, in a strain that indicated a finely cultivated mind, but alas! sadly perverted. Sometimes he would utter the most imposing and solemn truths, in a way that made the blood seem to trickle coldly through my veins—and then he would go off into a burlesque caricature, or light and witty declamation, that set the whole room in a roar of laughter.
               "'What would the old gentlemen think of that, if he had heard it,' said one of the company.
               "'He would think his son quite a promising young man, I suppose,' replied Harman, laughing. 'I was set apart for a minister, you know, and I'm only trying to get my hand in a little.'
               "'This was met, of course, by an encouraging laugh. It was nearly eleven o'clock when my company went away, and then the young man just alluded to, had to be supported by two of his drinking companions.
               "On counting the money in my drawer, I found that I had made a very good beginning. My visitors understood the art of drinking. It was very certain, that they were no strangers to a bar-room.
               "'I have done very well indeed,' I said to my wife, on closing my house for the night, 'I shall have plenty of custom here, I have not the least doubt.'
               "'Who was the young man that sung so sweetly?' my wife asked.
               "'I do n't know who he is. But he is a smart fellow, that is certain. He preached a sermon to-night equal to any minister.'
               "'But ain't it a pity,' my wife remarked, 'that such a young man should throw himself away?'
               "'It does seem a pity. But he is young, and will be all the wiser, after a few years, for having sowed his wild oats.
               
               "'I hope so. But young men who drink, rarely become less fond of liquor as they grow older.'
               "'Well, that's no concern of mine,' I replied, a little warmly.
               "My wife understood my humor, and said no more on the subject."
               Wishing, for greater effect, to combine incidents learned from the tavern-keeper and facts gathered from another source, I will, for a time, let him step aside, and relate things in my own way.
               About nine o'clock on the evening succeeding the day on which W— had opened his tavern, in the village of—, as has been above noted, the venerable old man, who had called upon him to remonstrate against the sale of liquor, sat conversing with his wife, likewise well stricken in years. The subject that occupied their thoughts seemed to be a painful one, for upon each aged countenance rested an expression of deep concern.
               "He has not been out so late as this for a week," remarked the old man, breaking in upon a silence of some moments.
               "No, but perhaps he is spending the evening in Mr. Wilmot's family," was the doubting suggestion.
               "There is little hope of that, I am afraid. To-day that wretched drinking-house at the lower end of the town was again opened, and I tremble lest our boy has been tempted to go there."
               "Surely my child will not again visit a place that has, already, well-nigh ruined him!"
               "I hardly dare hope," and as he said so, the old man drew towards him a large family Bible that lay upon the table near which he was sitting, and slowly turned over its sacred pages. It was the hour for evening prayer and their youngest born, and only remaining child, was away; and worse than all, they feared, within the fangs of the destroyer. Before the father commenced reading, he paused, and listened for the sound of approaching footsteps.—But he listened in vain. Then, with a sigh he turned to the holy book before him, and read a portion of its sacred truths. The prayer that succeeded, was offered up in a deeply fervent, trembling voice.
               "Father of mercies!" he said, as he drew near the close of his petition, and his tones were full of touching pathos, "Remember the child of many prayers! Regard the one so prone to wander away from Thee, seeking pasture upon the bleak and barren mountains of sin O, bring him back, Good Shepherd, to thy fold, and incline his heart to love thy counsels! Thy servants are now well stricken in years, and are waiting patiently for their change. Let not their gray hairs go down in sorrow to the grave. Let them not see the son of their old age still straying from Thee, enticed away by the allurements of the wicked one. Thus we pray thee, for the son of our love. Hear us, and regard us, and pardon us, if in our earthly affections we presume to ask unwisely."
               After they had risen from their knees, they sat silent and thoughtful for a long time, each listening, intently, for the sound of approaching footsteps.
               "There he comes!" half whispered the mother, as a distant sound caught her ear.
               And they both sat, half bending forward, noticing each foot-fall that drew nearer and nearer, yet still unable to determine whether it was their boy or not who was approaching. At last the sound was almost at their door, and with hearts beating audibly, they half arose from their seats, expecting, yet fearing, to see their child enter. But, alas! the sound went by, and grew fainter and fainter, until all was again hushed in deep and oppressive silence. A long, tremulous sigh, attested the disappointment that chilled their hearts, as they sunk back into the chairs from which they had half arisen.
               A whole hour passed in anxious expectation, and still the son came not. At the end of that time, the old man said—
               "You had better go and lie down, Rachel; I will wait for Samuel."
               
               "No—I will sit up with you. I could not sleep if I were to go to bed. But where can he be?"
               "Let us prepare our hearts for the worst, Rachel," the old man said, meekly bowing his head, and endeavoring to lift his heart upwards. "Our child is in the hands of One who cares for him, and who loves him with a purer love than our weak hearts are capable of feeling and let us trust him there. I know, for myself, that I have made an idol of that boy. He was our youngest, most beautiful, and most innocent child. How often have I looked into his gentle face, and trembled lest he should be taken away. He seemed too lovely, too pure, in his early years, to live in this world of sin and misery. Alas! that his garments should be soiled! That he should fall in love with evil!"
               The maternal response to this was a gush of tears, accompanied by a low, suppressed moan, and then all was again as silent as death. Another hour passed slowly away, and yet there was no indication of the approach of the absent one. Who can tell, who can imagine all, nay even a tithe of what the hearts of that aged couple must have suffered during that hour of painful suspense!
               "I can bear this no longer," the old man said, as the clock rung out with, to them, startling distinctness, the hour of eleven, rising at the same time, and taking up his hat and cane.
               "Hark!" ejaculated the eagerly listening, expectant mother, as the sound of the clock died away, and there fell around them again a deep, oppressive silence.
               "What?" asked the father in a deep whisper, bending his ear towards the door, "I don't hear anything."
               "There, don't you hear that?" the mother said, as a distant but almost imperceptible sound came borne on the sluggish air.
               "I cannot hear anything," the father responded in a disappointed tone as he raised himself up from his listening attitude.
               "There it is again!" ejaculated the mother—"it is like a distant laugh. There don't you hear it?"
               "Yes I do now distinctly: some drunken revellers, no doubt, from W—'s tavern. Pray heaven our boy be not among them!"
               The sounds that had in their far-off, low murmur, been perceived by the mother's quick ear, became louder and more distinct. Now some snatches of a song could be heard, now a loud laugh, and anon a wild scream, rising on the still air and dying away in distant echoes.
               The minister's house stood upon the principal street of the village, and along this street the party of noisy revellers were approaching. As they drew nearer and nearer the father and mother listened anxiously for the voice of their son. Now it seemed to them that its familiar tones came upon their ears, but still they doubted and trembled in heart with an uncertain fear.
               A few moments passed, the sounds drawing nearer and nearer, and then all was hushed into silence. Presently there was a hurried whispering close by the window. In the next moment the door opened, and their boy, their youngest born and dearest one was thrust in, and came reeling across the floor!
               Neither the father nor the heart-stricken mother uttered a word, although both instantly arose to their feet as their son came in thus, bearing about him the indubitable evidences of having again been indulging a vice to which, even thus early in life, he had shown a strange inclination. For a moment the old man looked at his boy, and in that moment there was in his heart a powerful struggle with emotions that well-nigh mastered him; then he took him calmly by the hand and led him away to his chamber, where he left him in silence and in darkness.
               Side by side, with sleep banished from their eyelids, did the aged minister and his wife lay for hours, but neither could suggest to the other a thought of comfort. It was nearly daydawn when wearied nature sought refuge in a troubled slumber.
               On the next morning Mr. Harman felt a painful sense of weakness and incompetency, as he thought of his son, and of his duty in regard to him. That son had now arrived at years of rationality, and he could not, therefore, use any measures of compulsion; and remonstrance and persuasion he felt to be almost in vain, where shame seemed to be impotent in its influence over him. He did not, when he met him at the breakfast table, make any allusion to the occurrence of the previous evening; but he could not be familiar with him, nor cheerful in his manner. As for the mother, her countenance was a sad index of the anguish of her mind. The morning meal passed, of course, in painful, embarrassing silence, and was quickly over. After rising from the table, the young man took down his hat and was moving towards the door, when his father said in a low, but meaning tone—
               "Samuel!"
               The son turned quickly round and looked his father inquiringly in the face.
               "Where are you going, Samuel?" Mr. Harman asked in a voice that sounded mournful to the ear of the son.
               "Nowhere in particular," was the answer in a respectful tone.
               "Then, if you have no particular reason for going out, Samuel, why not stay at home? there is danger abroad. my child."
               The son laid down his hat and stood thoughtful for some moments: at length, as a tear fell upon his hand, he said in a voice that trembled—
               "I know that I am almost breaking your hearts. I think about my conduct oftener than you imagine, and sometimes it seems as if these reflections would drive me crazy. But I am led on, it seems to me, at times, by an almost irresistible impulse."
               "Only keep away from temptation, my child, and you are safe," the father said, going up and grasping the young man's hand.
               "O yes, Samuel, do keep away from temptation!" the mother urged, coming to his side, and taking the other hand between both of her own.
               The tears that gushed from the young man's eyes were tears of heartfelt repentance.
               "I could curse the man who opened that tavern!" he said with bitterness, as he grew calmer. "I have felt no inclination to drink since the house was closed two months ago. But the moment I saw the announcement that it would open yesterday, I felt an almost irresistible desire to go there. With this desire I struggled all day. At night I was too weak to resist it. And much I fear, my dear parents, (and his voice trembled again, and was deeply pathetic and tender,) that I shall not be able to control the desire which at times comes over me. Were it not for your sakes, I feel that I should give up the contest without another effort. I do not care for myself. Indeed, it seems to me that the degraded life of a drunkard cannot make any one more miserable than will the struggle to which I shall be subjected, with this temptation daily before my eyes. I speak the truth when I say, that I wish that man had died before he came to this place to tempt men's souls to ruin."
               "But, surely, Samuel, the successful struggle against such an evil desire, is worth all the pain of mind it may cost you," the old man said. "In good resolutions, when they flow down into an effort to resist what is wrong, there is always a power from heaven. And there is a power that must conquer, when, in the good resolution, there is trust in the Lord. Look up to Him, then, in your conscious weakness, and He will be your almighty strength. When you feel tempted, raise your thoughts to Him in an acknowledgement of your own helplessness, and pray, 'Deliver us from evil,' and He will be present with you in that prayer, and give strength to support you. Try, my son, in this way; cast aside all confidence in yourself, and trust in Him who will ever be present to help you in your good resolutions."
               The son did not reply, and there followed many minutes of oppressive silence. Then the mother retired from the room, and in a little while the father also, and the young man was left alone. He had been designed by his father to fill the same sacred office that he himself held- the office of minister. And be had been educated to that end—principally at home, and under the father's care. But for a year or so past, it had become too painfully apparent, that the moral tone of the young man's mind was becoming strangely perverted. He not only associated with low company, but frequented the tavern, and often drank to a state of partial intoxication.
               When this fact became apparent to Mr. Harman, it inflicted a pang, the poignancy of which few can imagine. As to the mother, the shock seemed more than she could bear. For a time, remonstrance was tried, but it produced little effect. As the young man's rational mind developed itself, it seemed that his evil propensities had become stronger, and his inclination to resist them less active. At times he would seem to make an earnest struggle against the current that was bearing him on to ruin, but the struggle was always brief, and unsuccessful. He was gradually growing more and more dissipated, more and more neglectful of his books, and more and more disinclined to look into those works of doctrine and religious precept which formed a portion of his studies. The good old man, his father, was beginning to despair of his son, when the tavern-keeper moved, and the establishment was broken up. There being no other drinking house in the village, there was no other place of resort to tempt the idle and infatuated; and Samuel Harman became at once, apparently, a changed young man. He resumed his studies with an attention and assiduity, that made the hearts of his father and mother thrill again with hope. This he continued for two months, when W— re-opened the house. The sequel is known.
               A few brief sentences will tell the rest of this sad tale. After tea on the evening of the day succeeding that in which W— opened the tavern, Samuel found means to go out unobserved by his parents. At eleven o'clock he was brought home drunk to helplessness and insensibility: On the next night the same thing occurred. And so on the next and the next.
               On the morning of the fourth day the minister went over to see the tavern-keeper, and remonstrated with him.
               "Mr. W—," he said, "I have a favor to ask of you. You have already refused me one, but do not refuse my present request."
               "I shall not promise," W— replied coldly, "but say on.'
               "My request is, then, that you will not sell my son any more liquor."
               The tavern-keeper shook his head.
               "I do not feel authorized," he replied, "to refuse any one who calls for liquor at my bar. My house is one of public entertainment, and I am, therefore, bound to entertain the public. Why, you might as well say that I should n't sell a man an axe, if I were keeping a store, because he might kill himself with it."
               "You certainly should not sell it to him if you knew he were going to kill himself with it. That is clear. Neither should you sell liquor to my son, when you know that he is destroying both body and soul by the use of it. A druggist will not sell any one laudanum, unless he has conclusive evidence to his own mind that no improper use is going to be made of it And yet, you will sell a poison that as surely destroys life as laudanum, though less rapidly, and you not only sell it to those who intend making an improper use of it, but encourage them to drink it in your very presence. Surely, sir, you do not reflect on what you are doing!"
               W— grew angry at this, and replied in so insulting a style to the old man, that he retired, hopeless of moving the landlord by any humane considerations.
               The downward course of young Harman was rapid from this time forth. In six months he died of that dreadful disease, delirium tremens, his father and mother heartbroken witnesses of his last awful ravings and horrible fears.
               But few days, and those full of troubles, passed, before they went down in sorrow to the grave.
               "I saw," said W—, "both funeral processions pass my tavern. First, that of the son, and in a few months afterwards, that of the father and mother, both borne out at the same time, and laid side by side.
               
               "'They have gone where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest,' said, with a sigh, one of the villagers, who had already become a daily frequenter of my tavern, as he came in from the door at which he had observed the passing funeral.
               "I felt that there was more than the expression of a simple sentiment in what the man uttered. I was conscious, as he passed me by, and seated himself, in gloomy silence, that he was thinking of me—and that he was thinking of me as one of the wicked who had troubled that old man's peace. But I was not long held in suspense.
               "'W—,' he said, suddenly, and with emphasis, 'I would not have on my conscience the sin of bringing that good old man's gray hairs in sorrow to the grave, for ten thousand worlds!'
               "'Nor would I,' was my response; but my words seemed to choke me as I uttered them, and I felt strangely confused.
               "'But the sin is on your conscience!' the man said, rising to his feet, and coming up to me, his countenance expressing anger and pain. 'You have killed that good old man! You are his murderer, sir!'
               "'I cannot, and I will not permit any one to use such language to me!' I replied, confronting him with a stern look.
               "'You will have to permit it, in this instance at least,' was his cool answer, while he continued to look me steadily in the face. 'And remember,' he added, 'that it is the truth that accuses you, not I. Before you came here and opened this accursed place, Samuel Harman had been tempted with liquor, and had fallen. But the man who had tempted him went away, and then he was himself again, and did not seem to desire what had so well-nigh been his ruin. Hope had again began to spring up in the hearts of his parents, when, alas! some evil spirit sent you here with your mean, selfish love of gain, that would not hesitate to rob even the dead! That kind old man, so deeply beloved by all, remonstrated with you, but in vain. He might as well have spoken to the north wind. Your first victim was his beloved child. Then he begged that you would not sell liquor to that infatuated boy. But with a feeling that a devil might have envied, you still held the cup to his lips! At last the boy died—and do you think, sir, that you were not his murderer? If ever a man was guilty of the blood of another, you are guilty of the blood of that boy! And not of his only, but the blood of his parents clings to the skirts of your garments!'
               "The man paused, and I was too excited with anger to reply before he resumed.
               "'Think, sir, for one moment,' he said, 'how lost to every humane emotion you must be, when you can, day after day, mix your poisons for the souls and bodies of men, and hand it out to your deluded victims, with your smiles and gentle words, even while you are conscious that many of them are fast losing all power over themselves. Do not imagine, sir, that you are guiltless in regard to these men! Their blood will yet rise up and curse you! The day will come, in this world, or in the next, when you will reap the whirlwind. And now, sir, we part for ever. From this hour I am a free man—from this hour, I neither touch, taste, nor handle the unclean thing! Others may dally with the serpent whose fangs are just ready to penetrate their vitals—others may encourage by inducements and example, the weak ones around them to sin, but I will be guiltless of so dreadful a crime.'
               "And thus saying, with a calm energy that subdued the storm of passion pent up within my bosom, the man, who had been among my best customers, turned away, and slowly left my house. His feet never again crossed the threshold of my tavern.
               "It would be doing injustice to myself were I to say, that I felt altogether indifferent about the death of the minister, his wife and son Nor could I drive from my mind the painful consciousness that I was too deeply involved in the guilt of their premature removal under circumstances of so much pain. For a time, there was a struggle in my mind between a perception that I was doing wrong to tempt my neighbors, and a selfish love of gain. But my selfishness prevailed, and then I went on again, calmly, in the course I had already chosen with deliberation. But, in my case, at least—I cannot speak for others—there was always occurring something to bring up distinctly before my mind, a sense of the evil I was doing in society. The current of my life did not run smoothly on, notwithstanding I was gradually accumulating this world's goods. I am sure, that the aggregate of unhappiness which I suffered while a tavern-keeper, consequent upon the evil growing out of my sales of intoxicating liquors, overbalanced a hundred times all the delight I experienced from a gratified love of gain. A far happier man would I have been as a poor, industrious mechanic, seeking my pillow, nightly, with a quiet mind, than I have been as a seller of liquid poison, with the fearful burden of ruined souls upon my conscience. Ah, sir! when I recall the past, I feel that it is almost vain for me to rest any hope upon the future. It seems as if I nave sinned past forgiveness. How can I meet my victims in the next world? Is not that a fearful thought!'
               And the tavern-keeper shuddered and grew pale.
               "But to proceed with my story that I now regret having begun. I was fondly attached to my oldest boy, then about twelve years of age, and took great pains to have him well educated. He was a beautiful boy—mild in disposition and intelligent. I had two children beside, a boy and a girl, and I loved them very much. There was a man who was engaged in hauling stone past my tavern who stopped to get a dram every time he was on his way by. Sometimes the children would climb up into his cart, while he was in the bar getting a drink, but as his horse was gentle, I paid little attention to them, not apprehending any danger.
               'One day while I was in town, this man came past as usual, and as usual stopped to get some liquor. It so happened that my oldest child was home from school, and was amusing himself with two or three playmates. The moment the driver went into the tavern, they, with my youngest boy, eight years old, got into the cart and commenced hallooing to the horse. The animal started off and the children set up a loud cry of alarm. When the driver came out he saw the horse dashing off at full speed and instantly started in pursuit. But before he could overtake him, the cart was upset, and my youngest boy killed instantly! The elder had fallen out before. His mother came up to him while the driver pursued the horse, and lifting him in her arms, found that his back was broken.
               "Something troubled me as I returned from the city on that day. The nearer I drew towards home, the more uneasy did I become. It was in vain that I strove to shake off the gloomy impression that had taken possession of my mind, it grew more and more painful the nearer I came to the village. At last I entered my house, to find my vague fears terribly realized. There was my youngest boy, dead, his tender body torn and bruised and broken—and there was my eldest, upon whom I had so often looked with pride, screaming in pain, and shockingly disfigured. But if I suffered, how was the heart of their mother riven with anguish!
               "Strange as it may seem, not one of the three children who were in the cart with my own, was injured. On the next day we buried our little one out of our sight. But the disfigured body of the other was ever before our eyes, and for a long, long time, the memory of his groans and cries of pain in our ears. Neither my wife nor myself felt again happy in the village of —, and in a few months after, we removed to the city, where I opened a larger and more attractive drinking house in — street. Here I remained for fifteen years, gradually accumulating money and added house to house and lot to lot.
               "Many a sad tale could I tell you, of young men who, during that time, have frequented my house. I will not say that I ruined them, or even that I taught them to drink. They came, most of them, to my house after the taste had been formed; but this much I did, I used every means in my power to allure them to my house, and to make them feel pleasant while there. That I was accessary to their ruin, I cannot deny.
               "There was young P—, you know him no doubt. He was the youngest son of P—, the wealthy shipping merchant. His father gave him, of course, the very best education. No young man I am sure ever commenced the world with fairer prospects than he did, He was a lawyer, you remember. Well, when he was admitted to the bar, and argued his first case, the whole court-room was electrified with the sudden burst of powerful eloquence that he poured forth. It was not, I have heard it said, a mere declamatory appeal, but a soundly rational argument that he presented, clothed with a richness of language, that made it irresistible. On that very night he came to my house, with half a dozen companions, flushed with the excitement of success, and before ten o'clock had drunk to intoxication.
               "'What a pity!' remarked an elderly man, leaning against the counter, and sipping his brandy and water.
               "'Indeed it is!' I said in a tone of assumed pity. 'But this is only a little frolic. He will sow his wild oats, by and by."
               "'I hope so,' was the response, in a half concerned tone, and then he walked away.
               "From this time forth, there were few evenings that young P— did not come to my tavern. But it was some years before his habits made any apparent impression on his prospects. At last it was not to be concealed, even from his most indulgent friends, that the light of a strong intellect was growing dim, that the promise of early years was fading. Then came the remonstrances of those who could venture to remonstrate—the persuasions and gentler efforts of parents and sisters, but alas! all was vain. The ardor of an insatiable desire, was more potent than the strongest reason, or the most tender allurements, Down, down, down, slowly, but regularly, step by step, did he go, and at last sunk to the grave in the bloom of manhood, the few green laurels that he had won, already faded upon his brow!
               "Is it not a fearful thing to trifle with intoxicating drinks? Who can tell the moment when the equilibrium of his mind will be destroyed—the moment when the power to refrain from the cup of confusion will leave him. It has left, and is still leaving, hundreds, daily, who but a week before would laugh at your suggestion of danger And when this equilibrium is destroyed, with what a fatal energy, despite the highest, the holiest, the tenderest considerations, does the victim go on his downward way! Since I have abandoned the wicked traffic, and have been able to look at these things, free from the selfishness that had for years beclouded my mind, I experience such an overpowering solicitude for those who are venturing on the enchanted ground, that I feel as if I could lift my voice and cry, 'beware!' at the corners of every street. But to proceed with my rambling narrative.
               "I can count up fifty or sixty young men, the flower of our city who have been ruined by drink. There is scarcely a family of any distinction among us, into which the destroyer has not entered at some point. Scarcely a mother's heart that has not trembled with fear, or been wrung with the keenest anguish. And who is responsible for these things? For there is responsibility somewhere. Great evils like these are not the result of chance. I point, with confidence, to two classes in society, and am bound to consider them responsible. These two classes are the distillers and the venders of intoxicating liquors. I, as one of the latter class, feel that I have my weight of responsibility to bear, and a fearful one, I am conscious, that it is. But I must bear it, and so must all who are now, or have been, engaged in the traffic.
               "There are but two circumstances more to which I shall allude, and those two are, to me, the most painful of any that I have related. I told you that my eldest boy, a promising lad, was crippled by a fall from a cart, while the driver was drinking at my bar-room. It was a long time before he was able to get about, and then he was, to all eyes but those of his parents, a loathsome object. Not only was his body disfigured, but his countenance, once regular and beautiful in contour and expression, became distorted and painful to look upon. His disposition, too, was changed. From a cheerful, generous, light-hearted boy, he became fretful, self-willed and envious. Occasionally, before his fall, he would go to the bar, and draw for himself a glass of cider, or beer, but he did not seem to have any particular love for liquor. After he was able to go about the house again, there were for him, of course, fewer sources of amusement, and he resorted more regularly, as a kind of relief to the moping monotony of his life, to the bar. I took no notice of this, until his mother said to me one day:
               "'I'm afraid that John goes to the bar too often.'
               "'I reckon not, Ann,' I replied. 'I havn't noticed any thing wrong in that respect.'
               "'I have then, Thomas. Of late I've noticed that he mixes brandy and water half a dozen times a day.'
               "'Is it possible? I must put a stop to that,' I replied in alarm—the idea of my crippled child becoming a drunkard, presenting itself with painful and revolting distinctness.
               "But I found it no easy thing to do so. The objects of temptation were around him, and the appetite already formed. Threats, remonstrance, persuasion, punishment, were all in vain. If not allowed to drink openly, he would do so by stealth. If I had not been a tavern-keeper, I might have prevented his obtaining liquor until his desire for it had passed away; but, with the temptation ever before his eyes, and the fumes of the bewitching draught ever in his nostrils, I found that to prevent his drinking was impossible.
               "At the age of sixteen, it was no uncommon thing for me to see him carried off to bed, in the middle of the day, drunk and insensible. At twenty, he was a loathsome object even to my eyes. All natural affection for him retired from my bosom, and I would have spurned him from the house, had it not been for his mother and sister, whose affection seemed to cling closer and closer to the unhappy and debased object they still looked upon as a child and a brother. At the age of twenty-two he died Let me draw a veil over the last scene. I would forget it."
               The tavern-keeper's voice here fell to a low and mournful ful tone. Leaning his head upon his hand, and shading his eyes, he sat silent for a long time. Then rousing him self with an effort, he resumed:
               "For years before he died, he had not seemed to me as a child. But when the spirit had fled—when I saw him pale, cold, and insensible in his coffin, then the obstructed waters rushed over my soul, and overwhelmed me. Ah, sir! it would be a vain effort for me to attempt to make you conscious of my feelings, when I looked my last look, ere the coffin-lid passed over his face for ever. I felt that he was my child then. And worse—that I had been the serpent in his path—that I had cursed my first born, and sent him marred in body and soul to an early grave!
               "But let me hasten on. After my child passed away from my sight, I felt that now I must have quiet; that every thing would go on as smoothly as the waters of a pleasant stream. Ellen, my daughter, had sprung up to womanhood, with a spirit as gentle as that of the mother who had borne her. There was nothing about her that did not inspire affection. No expense had been spared in her education, and, waiving all a parent's fond partiality, I can say, that few were more intelligent and accomplished than she was.
               "'Mr. W—,' said a young man to me one day, who had occasionally visited my bar, and whose habits I knew pretty well, 'I should be glad of a little private conversation with you.'
               "There was something singular and embarrassing in his manner, and I instantly suspected why he wished to converse with me.
               "'Upon what subject do you wish to converse?' I asked coldly.
               "'About your daughter, Ellen,' he said, in a hesitating whisper.
               "'I do not wish to converse with you on that subject, was my stern response.
               "The young man turned hastily away and left me
               "'Here comes more trouble!' I muttered between my teeth, with bitter emphasis.
               
               "When I went home to dinner, I narrowly observed the expression of Ellen's countenance. I could not mistake its concerned import. It was too painfully evident to my mind, that she had not only been countenancing the young man's attentions, but had consented that he should approach me with an offer for her hand.
               "'Ann,' said I to my wife, after we were alone, for Ellen did not sit long at the table, and could not, I saw, eat any thing—'has Joseph Hilton been in the habit of visiting Ellen?'
               "'Why, yes,' she replied, slightly embarrassed—'he has visited here quite regularly of late.'
               "And did you know of his intention to ask for Ellen's hand?'
               "'Not until yesterday, when Ellen told me of his offer.'
               "'Here is more trouble!' I said, rising from the table, and pacing the room backwards and forwards.
               "'How so?' inquired my wife. 'Is not Joseph Hilton of a good family, and himself an estimable young man?'
               "There is no doubt as to the respectability of the connection so far as his family is concerned; but Ann, you would not wish to see your child a drunkard's wife."
               "'Merciful heavens!' she ejaculated, clasping her hands together, and rising quickly to her feet. 'A drunkard's wife! I would a thousand times rather see her laid in her grave.'
               "'Then, Ann, if she marries Joseph Hilton, she will be that heart-broken thing. I have come to have a quick eye in these matters. I can tell long before his nearest friends discover it, when a young man has passed the point of self-control: and that point Hilton passed many months ago.'
               "A long and painful silence followed. At last I said—
               "'Do you think it will be a hard matter to convince Ellen that this young man is unworthy of her?'
               "'I am afraid it will,' my wife replied. 'He has never exhibited, while here, the slightest indication of being under the influence of liquor, and it will, therefore, be difficult to convince Ellen that, on this point, there is any real objection to the young man. And if, as I have every reason to believe, she is strongly attached to him, I need not tell you how vain all remonstrance may be, even were she to see him intoxicated.'
               "'Vain all remonstrance!' I ejaculated, my feelings much excited and indignant. 'I tell you, Ann, she shall not marry him! I had rather see her dead first!'
               "'Do not get excited about it, Thomas,' my wife said in a mournful tone. 'Any thing rash, any very apparently decided step on our part, may confirm her affection for him beyond the power of change. Especially, if we attempt to disparage him utterly, will there be great danger. She sees him only with the partial eye of affection, and cannot be induced to think unfavorable of him.'
               "'What, then, is to be done?' I asked, in a calmer tone.
               "'I cannot tell,' was my wife's sad reply. 'You are certain that Hilton is all you fear him to be?'
               "'Certain! Ann, I cannot be mistaken in a matter like this, and what is worse, when under the influence of liquor he is ill tempered and quarrelsome. I shudder when I think of our Ellen as the wife of such a man. There would not only be neglect and crushed affections, but ill treatment and intense suffering. You have seen many a drunkard's wife, Ann; I need not describe their miserable heart-breaking condition.'
               "A gush of tears attested the vividness of some picture of suffering upon my wife's imagination. To her I left the task of effecting, if possible, a change in Ellen's feelings towards the young man. But all her efforts were in vain. She would not believe, even though assured that I had often seen him partially intoxicated, that Hilton drank to excess.
               "'But he drinks moderately, Ellen: let us assume that as a fact which you will readily admit,' my wife urged upon our daughter.
               "'I have no doubt of that,' was her reply—'all young men do so, I believe. I know that father does, and has done so ever since I can remember, and he is not a drunkard.'
               "'But still, Ellen, there is great danger of every young man who drinks becoming a drunkard. Hilton, your father says, has often been in his bar-room in a state of partial intoxication.'
               "'And did he sell him liquor when he knew that he was in so much danger? I cannot understand that, mother.'
               "'You should not allude to your father in that way, Ellen,' my wife replied gravely.
               "'Whether I speak of it or not, mother, it still seems as strange to me. If it is wrong for young men to drink—if, in drinking, there is so much danger, is it not wrong for father to sell liquor?'
               "'That is not to the point, my child; the question now is, whether you will cast off this young man, or become a drunkard's wife.'
               "'I cannot see it in that light; I am not afraid that Joseph Hilton will ever become a drunkard.'
               "'I am sorry that you seem thus disposed to follow your own inclinations, Ellen, rather than be guided, in a matter of so much importance, by your parents. Much as we regret to do so—much as it may pain us to cross you in any thing, we must, from this time forth, positively prohibit that young man from visiting you.'
               "This declaration was met, of course, by a flood of tears. For a week or two there was a gloomy shadow resting over our dwelling. It was painfully evident that the impression on Ellen's mind was too deep to be easily, if at all, erased. After a while, however, there was a change in her manner; she seemed less borne down; al though there was about her no expression of cheerfulness At this I began to take hope.
               "'She is rising above her weakness,' I said to myself—'she will yet be able to cast his image from her mind as something unworthy.'
               "Thus I congratulated myself at the very moment when the calmness around only preceded the coming tempest. On the night following this very self-congratulation at the passing away of a danger that threatened shipwreck to our peace, I came home from my bar-room about half-past ten o'clock.
               "'Has Ellen gone to bed?' I asked, looking around and missing her familiar form.
               "'No, she has not come home yet, and I begin to feel uneasy about her.'
               "'Where did she go?' I asked, an instinctive feeling of alarm arising in my mind.
               "'She said that she was going to spend the evening at Mrs. Allen's, and I have just sent over to see if she is there.'
               "At that moment the servant came in with the information that Ellen was not there, nor had been during the evening.
               "'Where can she be?' ejaculated my wife.
               "'Do you know whether she has ever met that young man since I forbade him the house?' I inquired, with assumed calmness.
               "'She has not, to my knowledge.'
               "'Do you know, Harriet?' I said, sternly, turning to the servant.
               "'I believe she has, sir,' was the hesitating reply.
               "'Did you take a bundle to any place for her to-day?'
               "'Yes, sir.'
               "'Where did you take it?'
               "'To—to—to Mrs. Powers.
               "I waited to hear no more, but, putting on my hat strode from the house, and in a few minutes was pulling with a nervous jerk the door bell of Mrs. Power's dwelling.
               "'Can I see Mrs. Power?' I asked, in an excited tone, of the servant who came to the door.
               "'She has gone to bed,' was the reply.
               "'Ask her, then, if she knows where Ellen W— is?'
               "'O, sir,' the servant replied, with a broad smile, 'she was married this evening to Mr. Hilton, and has gone out to Ellicott's Mills.'
               "I said not a word in reply, but turned away feeling as weak as a child. It seemed as if I had been stunned by a powerful blow. Slowly did I walk towards my house, that seemed, now, a cheerless spot, since the bright light that had given to it a life and a joy was gone—and gone, as a ray of sunshine, I felt, for ever.
               "Ah, sir, you cannot imagine the feelings of a father who loves his child tenderly, under a trial like this. My anger, which had burned, in anticipation of such an event, was all gone; and I felt something like we feel towards one who is dead.
               "'You will not cast her off?' my wife said, after I had communicated the painful intelligence, with a tender, appealing look, while the tears fell like rain from her eyes.
               "'Cast her off, Ann?' I replied,—'O no! More than ever now does she require our kindest care. We must not shut our eyes to the fact that her husband cannot make her happy. We must not flatter ourselves with the hope that he will pause in the downward road that he has taken. I am fearfully conscious, that here there is nothing to hope. Ellen will be a drunkard's wife, and will have her cup filled with gall and wormwood.'
               "My head pressed a sleepless pillow that night. In the morning, I went with my wife early to Ellicott's Mills in search of our fugitive child. I found her and her newly constituted husband, and we received them kindly, much to their relief. As soon as I could get the young man alone, I explained to him fully, that my only objection to him was the fact of his drinking, and warned him of his danger, while I conjured him to give up the use of all kinds of liquor. He confessed his weakness, and promised faithfully to abandon the use of strong drinks.
               "Against my wish the young couple went to housekeeping. I furnished them out in handsome style, and they commenced the world under promising auspices. For a time Ellen's face wore its usual happy aspect. But after the passage of a few months, I could detect something musing and dreamy in the expression of her eye. She did not smile as often; and when she did smile, the light faded more quickly away.
               "'I'm afraid something is wrong,' I said to my wife. 'I am sure Ellen is not happy.'
               "'So it seems to me. But when I allude to it, she says that it is only my imagination—that she is happy,' was her reply.
               "But I was not satisfied. And soon my fears were confirmed. Two or three days had passed since Ellen had been round to our house, when I proposed one evening that we should go and see her. Much to our surprise and pain, we found her with her eyes red and swollen, as if from weeping, and her whole appearance indicating deep distress. The moment she saw us, there was an evident effort on the part of Ellen to rally her feelings and assume a cheerful air. But the effort was vain.
               "'Ellen, child, what ails you?' her mother asked, in an earnest tone.
               "'O nothing,' was her reply.
               "'Something must be the matter, Ellen, or you would not look so troubled. Tell us freely of anything that gives you pain, my child,' I urged tenderly. 'Let there be no concealments with your parents.'
               "'Indeed, father, it is nothing of much consequence. I know that I am weak and foolish,' she said. But the gush of tears that followed, told too plainly that there was something wrong, and that of no light character.
               "'Where is Joseph?' I asked, after her feelings had grown a little calmer.
               "She hesitated a moment, and then said that he was up stairs. That he was not very well, and had retired to bed.
               "'I must know the worst, Ellen,' I said, rising and taking up a light, with which I proceeded to her chamber. One look was sufficient to tell me that her husband was sleeping in drunken insensibility! And it was only six months since they were married!
               "'You must go home with us, Ellen,' I said, in a sad, but decided tone, as I came down stairs.
               "'When?' she asked, looking up eagerly into my face.
               "'To-night, Ellen,' was my firm reply
               
               "'And leave him here? O, no, I cannot do that, father!'
               "'You must not stay with him to-night, alone Ellen.'
               "'Why not, father?' and as she asked this question, she looked me inquiringly in the face, as if fearful that my reason involved what she dreaded I should know.
               "'Because I do not think it safe for you to be left alone with him in his present condition.'
               "'He will not hurt me, father,' she replied, with a forced, sad smile.
               "'Hurt you, Ellen!' I responded, with something of excitement in my tone. 'It would not be well for him to do so. But come, you had better go home with us.'
               "'No, father, I cannot go,' was her decided reply.
               "'Then we will have to stay here with you.'
               "'Indeed, father, there is no necessity for you doing that. I am not at all afraid.'
               "But I insisted upon doing so, and consequently we remained all night in the house. It was, I think, about three o'clock in the morning, that I was awakened by a noise in the adjoining chamber, where my daughter and her husband slept.
               "I was out of bed instantly, and had partly dressed myself, when I heard Ellen say, in a low, imploring tone:—
               "'O, don't, don't, don't, Joseph!' at the same time that the sound of two or three blows came distinctly upon my ear.
               "It seemed, sir, in that moment, as if I were on fire. I sprang into their chamber with a fierce energy of hate to wards Hilton, such as never before or since burned in my veins for any one. I found my daughter standing on the floor, with one hand of her husband entangled in her hair, while with the other he was brandishing a stick over her head, his face flushed, his eyes starting wildly from his head; and every action and expression indicating a madman. With one powerful blow I knocked him senseless to the floor. That blow seemed to take equal effect upon Ellen, for she fell likewise, and lay in a state of apparent lifelessness.
               "As soon as the day dawned, at which time Hilton was perfectly sober, and Ellen had recovered from her fainting fit, I removed her to my house; forbidding, as I did so, her husband ever to cross its threshold. Of course my child was not happy under this state of separation, and soon left us to join her husband, whose penitence deceived her into the belief that all would be well again.
               "On the night that her first child was born, Hilton came home drunk, and crazy, as he always was when intoxicated. It was with the utmost difficulty that we could keep him from dragging Ellen out of bed, so strangely bitter were his feelings towards her when thus excited. The agitation which was the consequence, had like to have cost her her life, and I have often, since, had a strange involuntary wish that she had then died.
               "I cannot dwell upon her sufferings and our trials for the next five years, during which she continued to live with her husband. At the end of that time, we prevailed upon her to come home, with her three children, and she once more entered our house a pale, emaciated, heart-broken creature, and moved before our eyes daily, a living evidence of the horrors involved in, and consequent upon, the traffic in which I was engaged. And she still lives, and her husband still lives, a perpetual source of trouble to her. Sometimes he will quit drinking for a few weeks, and make almost daily overtures to her for a reconciliation. Sometimes he will threaten to get possession of his children by law, and once or twice has attempted to pick them up in the street and carry them off. Poor creature! her existence is a living death.
               "With all these things daily before my eyes, with my own heart burdened and oppressed, I regarded not others. I had a strange indifference to the sufferings of all the rest of mankind. Daily did I gather in the substance drawn from neglected wives and suffering children, and hoard it away without a pang. My conscience was well nigh seared as with a hot iron. But the shock came at last—the power of that Divine Book had in it a virtue to awaken remorse that resided in no dispensation, not even the most afflictive that ever reached me.
               "In looking back upon my life for the last twenty years," he remarked to me, near the close of our interview, "I ask myself, sometimes, what I have gained by way of compensation, for all that I have been compelled to sacrifice. A few thousands of dollars make up the sum of that gain. A few thousands! How freely would I scatter them to the winds, could such a sacrifice recall the bloom to the cheek of my daughter—or restore to me the children, in moral and physical health, who have perished so terribly. Nor is this all. When the secrets of the grave are revealed, then only can be known how much of moral degradation, of sorrow and pain, and intense suffering, the wealth of a tavern keeper has cost. A fearful price, is it not? I sometimes wish that I had died before I was induced to open a shop for the sale of intoxicating drinks."
               "You do not always feel so badly?" I said.
               "Not always. I could not stand it long if I did. The fact of looking back and reviewing my life had excited my feelings a good deal. But I feel bad enough at any time, even though I assume a cheerful exterior—even though some call mine a happy countenance. How could it be otherwise?"
               Truly, how could it be otherwise? It seems to me, that if there is one curse of a man's existence greater than another, it must be the remembrance of having put the cup of confusion to the lips of his brother, and caused that brother to fall.
               
                  Woe unto him that giveth his neighbor drink, that putteth thy bottle to him and makest him drunken.—Hab. ii. 15.
               
               
                  
                     THE BOTTLE.
                     SCENE 5th.—COLD, MISERY, AND WANT DESTROY THEIR YOUNGEST CHILD: THEY CONSOLE THEMSELVES WITH THE BOTTLE.
                  
               
            
            
               THE DRUNKARD'S WIFE,
               "THINK of your wives and little ones!" said the President, while making one of his stirring appeals to the crowd that filled the hall at which meetings of the Washingtonians were held. "Think of the pale, care-worn face of her you promised, many years ago, to love and to cherish! Think of the dear ones whose young and innocent affections once twined about your heart, and whose glad voices once rung in your ears like tones of sweetest music! Think of these, I say,—think of them, unhappy man! who hast betrayed thy trust: who hast broken thy solemn vow made at God's altar, and crushed the hopes of her who there confided her all of life to thy keeping! Would that I had the power to restore to your heart some touches of that deep tenderness which once pervaded it, when wife and children were named! then would I feel sure that you would not leave this room to-night without pledging yourself never again to taste the accursed cup, that has robbed you of every true emotion towards those who were once so fondly loved—and robbed them of happiness,—I had almost said, of hope. Come, my friend! Let me reason with you. Is it well for you thus to destroy the peace of those who love you—to bring shame and sorrow to your wife, to beggar your children? and all for a low, selfish, sensual gratification? With all this persevering self-indulgence, are you as happy as you once were? Are the sacred attachments of home—the endearments, the tenderness, the confiding devotion of that hallowed spot, to be compared with that wild delirium of intoxication? I can hear your emphatic No! Come then, and go with us! We will do you good. Come! and there shall be light again in your dwelling. Come! and the smile shall return to the lips, and joy to the heart of that being who has clung to you, changed and degraded as you are, with an affection that nothing could obliterate."
               A long, deep silence followed this appeal, broken at intervals by the President's earnest and emphatic,
               "Come!—Come along, and we will do you good!"
               "Look at Dr. Harper," I heard some one near me say in a low, deep whisper.
               I turned my eyes towards the individual who had been named, and saw that tears were streaming from his eyes, and that his face was agitated by powerful emotions. The President's appeal had touched his feelings. His thoughts were, evidently, with the almost broken-hearted, neglected, suffering wife, who had clung to him through long years of sorrow and privation. For a few moments there seemed to be an air of irresolution about him. Once or twice he made a movement to rise, but still hesitated. There was plainly, a strong conflict going on between shame and the power of an evil habit, and the clear convictions of right that were presenting themselves to his mind. At last he arose and went deliberately up to the secretary's table, and subscribed his name to the pledge. How my heart glowed with pleasure as I witnessed this act! Involuntarily did my thoughts turn to his wife, whom I met occasionally on the street, the mere shadow of her former self. Once the happy centre of a gay and happy circle—now the lonely, neglected, sorrowing wife of a fallen drunkard! How like the awakening from a horrible dream, I thought, must be her husband's announcement, that he had freed himself from the one great evil, in which had been included all the rest that had cursed his own existence istence and hers! And thus it was to her. But let me not anticipate The story of her married life, which I am about to offer the reader, is one of touching interest; yet involving scenes of strong and painful trial. How could it be otherwise, and she the wife of a drunkard? A drunkard's wife! What a world of misery is involved in those three words! Who can look at them without a sensation of icy coldness about the heart? But let me pass on to my narrative.
               
                  THE DRUNKARD'S WIFE.
                  "May your fond anticipations be more than realized, Grace," said old Mr. Atherton, laying his hand affectionately upon the head of his beautiful child. "Love your husband, and confide in him, for he is worthy of you. But love not your father the less."
                  "How can I ever love you less, my dear father?" Grace replied, looking up into his face with an expression of tenderness.
                  "I am sure you will not, Grace. I uttered but an idle word. Still, in parting with you thus, I cannot feel other wise than moved at the separation. I cannot but feel that, although you will love me none the less, you will not think of me so often, nor look up to me for counsel and protection as you once did. Another will claim, and justly too, to be your protector and counsellor, and to have the first place in your affections. But I will not speak thus, for I see that it pains you. I feel that it is wrong."
                  And then followed a silence—painful in some slight degree, yet full of sweet emotions, playing in affectionate reciprocity from heart to heart, in parent and child.
                  To old Mr. Atherton, now well advanced in life, Grace was an only remaining child—the last of his household treasures. She had been to him for years a gentle spirit of love attending him on his way. Without her, he felt that life would be cheerless. With her, he had nothing more to desire. To yield her up then, to another was in deed a painful trial, notwithstanding he had the fullest confidence in him to whom he resigned his treasure. But it was resigning her—and there was the pang. And what was worse, she would remove with her husband, a young physician of fine talents and acquirements, from the city, to a small town some twenty miles distant.
                  Doctor Harper, the husband of Grace, was a young man of pure and elevated principles—superior in every way to the mass of those around him who were just entering upon life. And it was this, and this alone, that at all reconciled old Mr. Atherton to the necessity of parting with his child. He was conscious that it was only a feeling of selfishness that opposed this separation—that Grace must be, and would be happier with such a man for her husband, than as the companion of an old man, even though he were her father.
                  "I know you will be happy, Grace," he said, as he gave her a farewell kiss, a few days after her marriage. "Happier than I could make you. Go, then, and may heaven smile upon you and bless you!"
                  Under such flattering prospects opened the married life of Mrs. Harper. There were many who envied her lot—many who had looked upon the young, high-minded, talented physician, and sighed for the place in his affections that was occupied by Grace Atherton.
                  "I have not attended a wedding for years, where the marriage-promise was so bright," remarked one.
                  "Nor I," was the response. "Doctor Harper is one of a thousand, and Grace is the sweetest girl of my acquaintance. Surely, no cloud can ever darken over them."
                  "None are free from affliction and misfortune," resumed the first speaker. "But these can never weigh them to the earth, for with her fond and innocent affections, united to his elevated principles, they have that within which will ever lift them above all external circumstances. Give to a married pair full confidence in each other's affection and rectitude of principle, and no affliction, no change of circumstances, can rob them of internal peace. They will rise in calm and rational superiority above them."
                  "That pure affection—that high toned principle, as you justly say, are here united, and must produce the happy results described," was the reply
                  The first five years of their married life passed away as might be supposed, in calm tranquillity of mind. Three sweet children blessed their union, and entwined about their hearts new and stronger cords of love. Let us introduce them to the reader more familiarly at this period. Doctor Harper's practice, as a physician, had become quite large, extending to almost all the wealthier families of the place, and widening into a circle of nearly ten miles round. Compelled to answer professional calls at all hours of the night, and at all seasons of the year, he was of course much exposed, and often much fatigued. The hospitality of those days, tendered wine or brandy, with an ill-advised, but sincere spirit of kindness, to all male visitors; but more especially to the country physician. The consequence was, that whenever called beyond the precincts of the town, or at a late hour, or in inclement weather, brandy or wine was uniformly offered to Doctor Harper, and as uniformly accepted. Its present effects were always reviving after a long ride through the bitter cold of winter, or the intense heat of summer, or after having been aroused from sleep at midnight. Of danger he did not, of course, dream. Then strong drink was not known as the seeming friend that woos and delights until it has gained power and influence, when it unmasks itself, and proves the bitterest and most subtle enemy that man has to contend with. He looked upon it as a good, and used it as such.
                  It was a very cold morning in the winter of 18—, that Doctor Harper received a hurried call to go five miles into the country. The snow was deep, and the wind blew in chilly gusts from the north-west.
                  "Must you really go so far this bitter morning?" Grace said, with a look of tender concern, as his sleigh came around to the door, and he began to prepare himself for his visit.
                  
                  "Yes, dear. A physician's duties, you know, cannot be evaded. Others may put off until to-morrow, but we dare not."
                  "True, true. But I feel troubled, I cannot tell why, when I think of your going so far, and the air so intensely cold. You will wrap yourself up warm, dear."
                  "There is no reason why you should feel troubled, Grace. I have often been out on even colder days and nights. Don't be uneasy—I shall do well enough," and he kissed her still young and glowing cheek.
                  "How soon will you be home?" the wife asked, after a pause.
                  "Not before evening, I think," was the reply.
                  "It will not take you all that time to attend to this call."
                  "No; but I have two or three others to make out of town, and shall cross over the country instead of coming back; but I shall be safely home towards evening. And now, give me a good strong glass of brandy and water. I shall need it."
                  There were no doubts or misgivings in the heart of the young wife, as she poured out a large portion of strong French brandy, and handed it to her husband, who drank it off at a single draught.
                  This done, he kissed her again, and then jumping into his sleigh, dashed off merrily, and was soon out of sight.
                  In spite of every effort to shake it off, Mrs. Harper felt uneasy through the whole day, and that uneasiness was connected with her husband. But her fears were all undefined. She knew of no danger that beset his path. The coldness of the day, she was satisfied, as she pondered that reason, was not the true cause—for she knew that he was well protected, and was, moreover, accustomed to such exposure.
                  Meanwhile, the Doctor proceeded on his journey, and was at the house of his patient within an hour after he left home.
                  "We are really indebted for your prompt visit, Doctor," said the gentleman who had sent for him, meeting him at the door, and grasping his hand warmly as he entered. "Come in! come in! It is a very cold morning, and you must be chilled through! Here, give me your cloak! Now take a good stiff glass of brandy, and then draw up to the fire and warm yourself."
                  The glass of brandy was poured out, and a large draught taken. And then the doctor warmed and composed himself before seeing his patient. The case was a critical one, requiring calm investigation and great skill. How far Doctor Harper was able to give both of these, after drinking so much brandy within an hour, we are not able to say. Perhaps it was not more than he could bear. Be that as it may, he spent one hour at the bedside of his patient, and then, after another fortifying glass, departed. The patient died that night.
                  He proceeded across the country about eight miles, to pay another visit. Here wine was set out for him, and he drank of it freely. This second patient disposed of, he drank again, and then took another circuit. Thus he continued until late in the afternoon, when, after having visited some four or five families, he turned homeward. At each house he drank as a matter of course. First, because liquor was placed before him, and he was expected to drink it; and second, because he felt inclined to drink, and believed that it would do him good.
                  As evening approached, Mrs. Harper felt her strange, unaccountable concern, increasing. At last the well-known sound of his sleigh-bells met her ear, and her heart bounded within her bosom as she sprang to the window, delighted at her husband's safe return.
                  "O, I am so glad you have come back!' she said, laying her hand upon his arm as he entered. "I have felt all day long a strange uneasiness that I cannot account for—a concern for you. But you are safe home at last, and I have had all my foolish fears for nothing."
                  "You are a foolish girl sometimes, you know, Grace," he replied, stooping down and kissing her, with a rude familiar fondness, so unlike him, that Mrs. Harper looked up at him with an earnest yet doubting glance, while her heart sunk in her bosom, she knew not why. At that moment, his breath came strongly in her face Almost every day she had perceived about him the fumes of liquor, but this had caused her no alarm. She knew that he, like others, was in the habit of drinking moderately, and felt not the slightest apprehension in consequence. But now, there was something so disgusting in the odor of his breath, that she turned her head away with a sickening sensation, at the same time that she painfully realized the conviction that he was partially intoxicated! He—the husband she so loved and honored!
                  Mrs. Harper did not, for she could not, return his caresses; but shrunk away and busied herself about something that drew her from him. O, how wretched she felt! Not under the idea that her husband would become an abandoned drunkard—that fearful thought did not cross her mind—but because he had suffered the strong clear light of his reason to become dimmed—because he had fallen from his noble, manly character, and become degraded in intellect below the meanest of his kind. She felt that she could no longer regard him with the unalloyed pride and admiration, which had ever made him seem to her, unlike other men, above every human weakness or folly.
                  During the supper hour he talked almost incessantly; but all he said was mere drivelling nonsense, compared to his usual tone of conversation—so calm, so rational, so full of elevating reflections. The evening meal had always been to Mrs. Harper a pleasant season, for she loved to listen to her husband's remarks upon the incidents of the day, from all and each of which he drew some lesson of instruction. He was not a carping cynic, nor a dull, prosing moralizer—he did not lecture her upon her foibles, or assume a superior air, and give out his sentiments dictatorially; but in a kind familiar strain discoursed of men and things, of morals and manners, in a way so pleasing, that Mrs. Harper was never more delighted than when thus listening to him.
                  But how was all this changed on the evening to which we have just alluded! Instead of the simple and clear enunciation of some truth, or the forcible illustration of a sentiment; or some lively description, her husband spoke and acted like an insane man. Not a sentence could he utter coherently; nor think upon the same theme for more than a few moment at a time. O, how pained was the ear and oppressed the heart of his wife! It seemed almost impossible for her to believe that he who thus spoke was her husband!
                  For a time she almost seemed powerless; but thoughts of duty began to pass through her mind, and these roused her up.
                  "He must not be seen thus," she said. "He must not go out again to-night."
                  "Come," she said to him, as he rose from the supper-table, laying at the same time her hand upon his arm, and speaking in a tone of affectionate persuasion, "Come, Doctor, you are very much fatigued; hadn't you better go to bed and get a good night's sleep?"
                  "Go to bed! O no, Grace, not now," he replied, positively. "What could have put that into your head? I am not fatigued—I never felt so fresh in my life. And, besides, have you forgotten that we promised to spend this evening with Mr. and Mrs. Mabury? There is to be company there, you know."
                  To this, poor Grace did not know what to reply. She could not say that she was indisposed, and therefore must stay at home, nor that she would not go. And as to telling her husband the true reason why she did not, of all things, wish to pay a visit to any one on that evening, that was out of the question. She merely said—
                  "I do not feel like going out to-night."
                  "Yes, but we must go. It would never do to stay away from Mr. Mabury's." her husband replied.
                  With a sinking heart Mrs. Harper prepared herself to go out. She felt more like one going to a funeral, than to a pleasant party. But there was no escape. There was no form of argument in her power to use, that would have prevented her husband from doing as he wished.
                  It seemed to Mrs. Harper that the culprit awaiting his sentence could not feel worse than she did, as she paused with her husband at the door of Mr. Mabury's beautiful dwelling That gentleman was one of the wealthiest, most influential and intelligent men of the town. Dr. Harper had always been one of his favorites, and he had always taken great pains to forward his interests. He was also a man of great firmness of character, and consistency of principle, Of all others, it was his house, and in his presence, that Mrs. Harper most dreaded her husband to appear in his debased condition. But there was no remedy.
                  The rooms into which they entered, contained a select company, met for pleasant, social and intellectual intercourse.
                  "Good evening, Doctor!" said Mr. Mabury, as they came in, extending his hand at the same time with a frank cordiality—"I am very glad you have come. We were just discussing a point upon which your clear views on nearly all subjects will no doubt assist us."
                  And then, after one or two introductions took place and a few formalities passed, Mr. Mabury proceeded to state the subject that had formed the theme of discussion to which he had alluded, while the Doctor listened with an effort to fix his attention to the different positions advanced. After Mr. Mabury had concluded, he proceeded very promptly, and at great length, to give his views. They were, of course, confused and incoherent, declaring to every one who heard him, that Doctor Harper was intoxicated! To the whole of his rambling argument, his wife listened with feelings that few, if any, can imagine. On its conclusion, there was a deep, oppressive, and painful silence, the reason of which was too apparent to Mrs. Harper. No one attempted to reply, and the subject was at once dropped by the company. But this did not prevent Dr. Harper from further exposing himself. Talk he would, and talk he did, on all subjects. The consequence was, that to every one the whole pleasure of the evening was lost, and the company retired at an unusually early hour, by a kind of common consent. All this Mrs. Harper saw—all this she felt. There was one thing that Mr Mabury did; or, rather, that he omitted to do, which may be worth mentioning as a hint to those who have not yet seen reason for abandoning altogether the use of liquors as an ordinary drink. Although a friend, much less a party of friends, never visited his house without being offered wine or brandy, yet that evening he denied all for the sake of one. He would not put the cup to Harper's lips, nor, by presenting it to others, tempt him again to touch it.
                  Before Doctor Harper and his wife reached home, he was a good deal sobered, and less inclined to talk. He was evidently becoming conscious of his condition—and conscious that he had degraded himself. Silent and thoughtful did he retire to his bed, where sleep soon locked up his senses. But to the eyelids of the distressed wife, the "sweet restorer" brought not, for hours, the calm, refreshing slumber that had for years been her nightly visitant. In vain did she strive to sink away into forgetfulness. That evening had been too full of strange, unlooked for incidents, and she could not banish them from her mind. But at length, as the night waned, overwearied nature gave way, and she sunk into a troubled slumber, full of startling dreams.
                  It was long after daylight when she awoke from these feeling weary and unrefreshed. Her husband had already arisen and left the chamber. She soon followed, and found him in the breakfast room, reading. He did not look up as she entered, nor make any remark—he was evidently conscious, in some degree, of his condition during the previous evening. The morning meal passed with only a few general, constrained observations. Alas! how different from the usual conversational intercourse at the table, which had always been entered into so freely by Doctor Harper.
                  Here, then, were the first fruits of conscious degradation. The husband felt humbled in the presence of his own wife, and could not look her in the face with his usual calm, affectionate composure, nor speak to her so freely as he had been wont to do. Then came days of reserve, O, how painful to each! but exquisitely so to Mrs. Harper, for in that reserve were involved, in spite of all her efforts to overcome the feeling, diminished respect for, and confidence in, her husband. The being who had, in her eyes, seemed almost perfect, had fallen, and never again, she felt, could she look upon him, no matter how tenderly she might love him, as she had once looked.
                  At last this reserve, so painful to each, gradually wore off, and, externally, everything presented its usual aspect. But there were doubts and fears, and tremblings in the heart of the wife. Every time she saw her husband use wine or brandy, or any other intoxicating drink, she felt troubled. Formerly, she had sometimes taken wine with him at the dinner table, but now she always refused. This he felt as a tacit rebuke, and, as he had no idea of giving up its use entirely, but only to drink less freely, it annoyed him. Several times he was on the eve of mentioning the subject, but as he was conscious that he felt irritated, and would betray that irritation if he spoke, he remained silent. But, one day, after having drank rather freely during the morning, he said, as he handed the wine to Mrs. Harper, at the table,
                  "Come, Grace, you must take a glass of wine with me."
                  "Really, you will have to excuse me, dear," she replied, trying to smile, with a pleasant, indifferent air; "I don't think I feel well after taking wine."
                  "O, that is all nonsense. A little wine at dinner aids digestion. So come, let me fill your glass."
                  "Indeed, you must excuse me, Doctor," she said, more firmly. "I have made up my mind not to drink wine any more, except in case of sickness."
                  "And why not, pray?" Doctor Harper asked, in a voice louder than usual, and evidently excited.
                  "Because, dear, I do not think it does me any good,' Mrs. Harper said, speaking in a mild, tender tone, and trying to smile.
                  "I think, madam, you might permit me to judge of that. As a physician I ought to know a little more about such matters than you do. Allow me, therefore, to say that a little wine at dinner will do you good."
                  "Madam!" That word! the first time he had ever used it in speaking to her—the tone in which it was uttered—O, how coldly it fell upon her heart!
                  "You may give me a little," was her only reply, as she held out her glass and looked up into his face with dimmed eyes.
                  He poured her the wine, and she drank it off, though it seemed as if it would strangle her, as she did so.
                  Doctor Harper felt and saw that he had wounded his wife by his words and manner. But he did not attempt to soothe her feelings.
                  Had his mind not been obscured by drink, this consciousness would have produced an immediate effort to restore her peace. Indeed, had not such been his condition, he would never have violated it. But now, so he reasoned in his own mind, she had wantonly injured him by a reflection on his single instance of over-indulgence, under circumstances of a very peculiar nature. This he might have borne in another; but that his wife should act thus, seemed so unkind, and ungenerous, that he could not tolerate it. He therefore sat, during the meal, in moody silence.
                  At night, he came home, much more under the influence of liquor. He had been brooding all the afternoon over the incident which had thrown a cloud over them at the dinner table, and the more he thought of it, the more did he feel incensed at his wife.
                  "To think," he said to himself with indignant warmth, "that she should attempt such a thing with me, as if I were just on the eve of becoming a common drunkard! It is insufferable!"
                  With such feelings, and still more under the influence of liquor, as has just been said, did Doctor Harper return home that evening. During the few hours which had passed since he went out, it seemed to his wife that she had endured a lifetime of misery. Like the sudden bursting of a fearful storm from a summer sky, the affliction, all unpreluded, had fallen upon her. A few weeks before, and all above and around was to her beauty and brightness. Now, everything was obscured, and dark, and foreboding.
                  
                  With such feelings, did Mrs. Harper await anxiously the return of her husband. One glance at his face was sufficient to tell her, what his first word confirmed, that he was intoxicated. How her spirit shrunk within her as this painful truth became evident! The loving heart will hope even under the most unpromising circumstances. All though the afternoon, Mrs. Harper had cherished a belief, feeble though it was, that her husband would return home at night in a more rational state of mind. But this hope was at once dashed to the ground on his entrance. Her eager, inquiring look, the peculiar expression of her countenance, and the instant change that passed over it, attracted his attention, and, of course, irritated him.
                  "What do you mean by looking at me in that way?' he asked, in an angry tone of voice.
                  His wife did not reply, but turned away quickly, to hide her feelings, and left the room. They did not meet again until tea was announced. Then she appeared with a pale, distressed face, and eyes red and swollen. He observed her closely, but made no remark, until towards the close of the meal, when he said, abruptly—
                  "I am going to call on Mr. Mabury to-night, and wish you to go with me."
                  "Don't let us go there to-night, Doctor," Mrs. Harper instantly responded.
                  "And why not, pray?"
                  "I do not wish to go out to-night," she said evasively.
                  "O, yes, that is always the way!" her husband replied in a pettish tone, "you never care about going anywhere when I wish to pay a social visit."
                  "Indeed, indeed, you do me wrong!" Mrs. Harper said, earnestly, the tears coming to her eyes. "You know, dear, that I am always ready to go with you anywhere; and I would go to-night with you most cheerfully, only—"
                  But her heart failed her—she could not finish the sentence.
                  "Only what? Speak out plainly, madam!" he said drawing himself up and looking steadily and sternly at her, for he half imagined the reason she was about to give
                  But Mrs. Harper did not reply.
                  "Why don't you speak out, madam? Say!"
                  Still the wife was silent, and less inclined than ever to utter what a few moments before had trembled on her tongue.
                  "It's because you think I'm too drunk to go! That's the reason, madam. Speak out honestly and say yes!"
                  "I didn't say so, Doctor," was Mrs. Harper's calm reply, while she looked her husband earnestly in the face.
                  "O no, of course not!" he said in a sneering tone. "But you thought so, and to me there is no difference."
                  It is one of the phenomena of mind, that, as it enters into the most painful and agitating circumstances, it grows calm and collected. This Mrs. Harper experienced, and she was enabled to say in a firm voice:
                  "Doctor, I cannot conceal from myself, much as I desire to do so, the fact that you are not in a condition to go into company."
                  "And pray why not, madam?"
                  "Because you have been drinking too much."
                  "O yes, of course! I knew that was the reason. My wife has come to have sharper eyes than other people, and can discover her husband to be intoxicated where others can see no indications."
                  "You asked my reason for objecting to your going to Mr. Mabury's to-night," Mrs. Harper replied, still in a calm voice, "and I have given it. Most certainly do I wish that it were not the true reason. Let me, then, beg of you, my dear husband, not to go out, and, especially, not to go to Mr. Mabury's. Trust in me, when I say that you are not in a fit condition to be seen abroad! Surely, your wife can have no selfish end to gain in thus urging you. Most gladly would she close her eyes to the painful truth, were it in her power."
                  As Mrs. Harper pleaded thus with him, she came to his side, and laid her hand, tenderly, upon his shoulder But he turned away with an irritated air.
                  "Are you going with me, or not? Say yes, or no?" he said, a few moments after, in a stern voice, looking his wife full in the face.
                  "If you wish me to go with you, I will go, of course," was the reply. "But I cannot feel that I would be doing right to you, without using every reason in my power to induce you to stay away. Had you seen the effect of your appearance and condition on Mr. Mabury and his company, as I saw, on the evening of your last visit, you would not dream of going to-night. Every one's enjoyment was marred, and I felt as if I would gladly have shrunk into nothingness. Do not, then, expose yourself again, nor throw upon your wife, who loves you, a burden so hard to bear! If all this seems strange to you, think why it is that Mr. Mabury sent for Doctor Elwell last week, to attend his little girl. There must be some good reason why he did not call you in."
                  This brought Doctor Harper to his feet with a look of surprise, concern, and mortification on his countenance.
                  "You are trifling with me, Grace!" he said, in a voice which showed that the last remark of his wife, had, in part, sobered him.
                  "I am not, Doctor. I would have mentioned this before, but could not find the heart to do so. Last week his little girl was taken down with scarlet fever, and Doctor Elwell was immediately sent for, and has been in attendance ever since. She has been very ill, but is now considered out of danger. Can you imagine any reason for this withdrawal of the implicit confidence heretofore placed in you by Mr. Mabury?"
                  Doctor Harper did not reply but commenced pacing the room backwards and forwards, with hasty steps,
                  "I have performed a painful duty—how painful, no heart but mine can ever know—and now my lips must be sealed in silence. It is a dangerous and doubtful position, that, in which a wife becomes the censor of the husband!" Mrs. Harper said, as she entered her chamber, and threw herself, in tears, upon the bed.
                  For hours, Doctor Harper continued to pace the floor, every moment becoming more and more sobered, and more and more painfully conscious of his true position.
                  "I am disgraced! miserably disgraced!" he said, as he paused at last, and sunk into a chair, where he sat, still in painful thought, for a long time.
                  When he at last retired, towards midnight, to his chamber, he found his wife lying across the bed in a deep slumber.
                  "How heavy a burden I have laid upon thy heart, poor Grace!" he said, stooping down and pressing his lips to her forehead. As he stood, for some moments, still bending over her, she opened her eyes and looked up into his face.
                  "Dear husband!" she murmured, "will you still love me and speak kindly to me?"
                  "I will, I will, Grace!" he replied, quickly, with emotion. "And now, let us try and forget the past. The future is yet full of happiness and hope."
                  Thus were they reconciled, after the first open breach and there came days, and weeks, and months of confidence to the heart of Mrs. Harper. The lesson which her husband had received, she hoped would be sufficient ever after to put him on his guard. But the sunshine of her heart was not that mild, cheerful light, which had for years beamed upon it. The effects of the storm which, though but for a brief period, had desolated her breast, could not be obliterated. The pride she had felt in her husband's stainless reputation, and in the almost unlimited confidence which had been placed in him, had given way to a feeling nearly allied to shame. She cared not to go into company, and when in society, felt humbled on account of the weakness which had overtaken him.
                  As for Doctor Harper, the withdrawal of Mr. Mabury's confidence and support wounded him deeply. That gentleman continued to meet him with kindness and attention, and to respect him as a man of eminent talents and superior acquirements. But he dare not trust one whom he had seen intoxicated, with the health and life of his family.
                  "How can I know," he reasoned with himself, while deciding his course of action in reference to a change, "that the very moment he is called upon to prescribe for some member of my family, dangerously ill, he may not be so much under the influence of liquor, as to have his perceptions obscured? The risk is too great; I can not meet it."
                  Of course the fact that Mr. Mabury had changed his physician, and the reason of it, could not long remain a secret.
                  A few friends followed his example, and, as the reason of their change became known, others acted in like manner; so that at the end of six months, Doctor Harper had lost nearly every important family in the town of—--.
                  Conscious of the reason of this, and deeply mortified at it, he yet did not resolve utterly to abandon the fatal cup that had wrought him such deep injury, but continued to use it, as he thought, in moderation. Many weeks had not expired before Mrs. Harper's eyes were opened to the sad truth that her husband was again coming more and more under the influence of liquor.
                  Before six months had passed away, Doctor Harper often went to bed stupid from drink. It need not be told how wretched this made his wife; more especially as he became gloomy, morose, arbitrary and fault-finding. How sad the change which a single year had made! Twelve months before, there was not a kinder husband nor a happier wife to be found. Now, but few words of pleasant intercourse passed between them—and there was too often positive unkind treatment on the part of Harper. Like too many others, when drunk, he was a devil, and seemed to take a cruel delight in tormenting those whom he most loved when in his right mind. The consequence was, that his children began to have a perception of his condition, and would shrink away from him whenever he had been drinking—while his wife ever trembled when she looked for his return.
                  Of all this, old Mr. Atherton, the father of Mrs. Harper, knew nothing. Indeed, it was the work of a single year, and there had been no opportunity for his detecting it by observation. Of course his daughter dreamed not of communicating, but sought rather to conceal it.
                  Once a year, since their marriage, had Mr. Atherton spent with them a short time in summer, when he sought recreation from the cares of business, to which he still continued to devote himself. A few weeks before he was expected, Mrs. Harper's fourth child had been born, and she was sitting with it in her arms, one evening about twilight, when the stage stopped at the door. In a few moments after she was clasped in the arms of her father.
                  "How much I have wanted to see this sweet little stranger," he said, after they were seated, bending over the babe that lay on its mother's bosom, and kissing it fondly. "Dear little angel! How perfect a miniature image she is of yourself, Grace." And as he said so, he looked into his daughter's face long and attentively.
                  "How pale and thin you look, my child," he said, after regarding her for a few moments.
                  The heart of Mrs. Harper was full to overflowing, and it had been with an effort that she had kept the tears from gushing forth from her eyes. His remark completed the overthrow of her self-control, and she burst into tears.
                  "Why do you weep, Grace? You have not been used to receiving me with tears."
                  "You know I have been sick, father," she said, endeavoring to smile, after the agitation of her mind had subsided a little, "and am yet hardly myself again."
                  "Where is the Doctor? and the children?" he asked, seemingly satisfied with her answer, although he felt misgivings that all was not right.
                  "The Doctor has not come home yet. He was called out into the country this afternoon, and may not be back until towards nine or ten o'clock. The children have just been put to bed; but I will send for them all down. They must see grandpa' to-night."
                  "No, no, I will go and see them," he said, rising and going up into the chamber, where he spent half an hour with his dear little pets, delighting and delighted. Ten being then announced, he kissed each innocent face, and bade them a tender good-night.
                  The Doctor had not yet arrived, and he sat down to the table alone with his daughter, into whose face he could not help looking earnestly every now and then. In its expression there was, to him, something new, and strange, and painful—something that sent a chill to his heart. He did not again allude to it, but its effect was evident in a slight degree of embarrassment which he felt, and perceived a like embarrassment in the manner of Grace.
                  They had finished their meal, but were still sitting at the table, engaged in conversation, when Mrs. Harper turned slightly towards the back window of the room in a listening attitude, while her face grew paler, and a look of alarm passed over it.
                  "What is the matter, Grace?" her father asked.
                  "Nothing," she replied, with an effort to smile; "I am a little nervous since I was sick, and am startled at every sound."
                  The conversation was renewed, but interrupted again, in a few minutes, by the same look of alarm.
                  "Tell me, Grace, what it is you fear?" Mr. Atherton said, half rising from his chair.
                  "O, nothing, father! I am foolish sometimes; but I cannot help it. I didn't use to be such a coward."
                  Mr. Atherton was puzzled. Grace hardly seemed like his own child. Once so cheerful, and frank; now starting at an imaginary sound, for he heard nothing; tearful, and studious to conceal the cause of her agitation.
                  But a brief period passed, when Grace exhibited the same indications of alarm, and this time her father distinctly heard a movement in the yard. He rose instantly to his feet, and said:
                  "Tell me, Grace, what it is you fear, that I may know how to protect you. Speak out plainly, my child This mystery is all as strange as it is painful to me."
                  "The Doctor——" but she could say no more.
                  "What of him, Grace?"
                  But she uttered not another word.
                  The old man then took a light, and opening the door that led into the yard, went out, unrestrained by Mrs. Harper. As he held the candle over his head, the first object that met his eye was the figure of a man standing near the window, supporting himself against the fence that enclosed the yard.
                  "Why, Doctor! what is the matter?" he said, going up and laying his hand upon his son-in-law, whom he instantly recognized.
                  A drunken exclamation instantly unravelled the mystery of the whole evening! How the old man's heart did bound, and throb, and flutter in his bosom! For a moment his brain reeled, and he felt as if he would fall to the earth. Then recovering himself, he laid firmly hold of Harper's arm, and led him into the house, where he sank down upon a sofa, and was in a few minutes fast asleep.
                  Who can truly describe the heart-searching misery which was endured by Mr. Atherton and his daughter in that fearful moment when all was thus revealed! When the father became conscious of how bitter a cup had been placed to the lips of his child—and conscious of the hopelessness of her condition. For a long time no word was spoken by either. Grace came and sat down by his side, and leaned her head upon his bosom, while he drew his arm around her and supported her half reclining body. Thus they sat for nearly half an hour, the deep silence of the room broken only by the oppressive breathing of the drunken man. At length Mr. Atherton said, in a half whisper:
                  "Grace, how long has this been so?"
                  "Only a few months," was the reply.
                  "How long as bad as this?"
                  "Not long. He is hardly ever so bad as this. Not once in a month."
                  "Have you ever spoken to him about it?"
                  
                  "Yes: but he cannot bear it."
                  "Is he unkind to you?"
                  "No."
                  "Do not deceive me, Grace. I am your father, and care for you, and you ought to tell me all without disguise."
                  "He is uniformly kind to me, father, except when in liquor. And he is not himself then, you know."
                  Mr. Atherton sighed heavily, and remained silent for some moments. At length he said:
                  "Would you rather not have him come to your room to-night, Grace?"
                  "Yes. But he cannot be prevented father," she said after a brief hesitation.
                  "Why would you rather not have him come?"
                  "I don't know that I care much about it, father," the young wife said, after another pause.
                  "Yes, but Grace, you said just now that you did. Do not deceive me, my child. Speak out plainly. Are you really afraid to have him come into your room to-night?"
                  "Not on my own account, father."
                  "Then on whose account?
                  "My babe's."
                  "Why on her's?"
                  "Because he is not himself, you know. And he is a little rough sometimes."
                  "He shall not enter your chamber to-night, Grace," Mr. Atherton said, in a positive tone.
                  "Do not be harsh with him, father; he will not bear it;" Grace urged.
                  "Have no fear of that, my child. And now do you go to bed, and lock your door. Leave the rest to me."
                  After kissing her father tenderly, and bidding him a tearful good-night, Grace retired to her chamber with her babe, but not to sleep. How could she sleep under such circumstances!
                  Meanwhile, old Mr. Atherton seated himself in a large chair in the adjoining room to that in which Doctor Harper lay asleep, to await the result. When he awoke, be it
                     
                        THE BOTTLE.
                        SCENE 6th.—FEARFUL QUARRELS AND BRUTAL VIOLENCE ARE THE NATURAL CONSEQUENCES OF THE FREQUENT USE OF THE BOTTLE.
                      early or late, it was his fixed resolution to prevent him entering his wife's chamber, at any and all hazards. Though well advanced in years, he was yet in the vigor of a green old age, and nerved by his love for his injured child, he felt ready to brave any thing that might oppose his duty to her.
                  It was nearly twelve o'clock, when a movement in the next room indicated that the Doctor was awake. Mr. Atherton was on his feet in a moment, and met him at the door as he came out into the passage.
                  "Doctor," he said, laying his hand upon his arm, "I am sorry to find you in this condition."
                  "What condition do you mean?" he asked, in an offended tone.
                  "Partially intoxicated;" was the calm, distinct answer.
                  "Do you come here to insult me in my own house, Mr. Atherton? I thought better things of you, sir."
                  "You are not yourself yet, Doctor," the old man said in reply. "Come back into the parlor, and lie down again on the sofa."
                  "No, I am going up to bed."
                  "Where?"
                  "In my own chamber, of course. Where else did you suppose?"
                  "Any where else but there. You are not fit to go into your wife's chamber, and she with an infant only a few weeks old."
                  "And pray, sir, why am I not fit?"
                  "Because, as I have just said, you are intoxicated."
                  "If any one but you were to say that, I would strike him to my feet," he said, his eyes flashing as he spoke.
                  "Such an act would not alter your present condition. It would make you none the less under the influence of liquor," was Mr. Atherton's calm reply.
                  For a few minutes, the Doctor regarded the old man with a look as fixed and stern as it was possible for him to give, and then turned and made a movement to ascend the stairs. But Mr. Atherton's mind was made up as to his course of conduct, and he instantly laid his hand, with a firm grasp, upon the arm of his son-in-law, and held him back.
                  "You cannot go to your wife's chamber to-night, Doctor," he said.
                  "But I will go!" was the angry, positive, reply.
                  "Not while I possess the smallest power of resistance"—Mr. Atherton said, still holding his arm tightly.
                  For a moment or two the drunken man hesitated, and then turned and went into the parlor again, where he threw himself upon a sofa. Mr. Atherton re-entered the adjoining room, and seated himself in a large, stuffed rocking-chair. Nearly an hour passed in profound silence, and Mr. Atherton was about falling away into sleep, when a slight noise attracted his attention, and looking towards the door, he saw the Doctor stealthily gliding up the stairs.
                  When Mrs. Harper retired, with her babe, to her chamber, it was under the influence of many contending and agitating emotions. For the first time, her father had learned the sad falling away of her husband—that husband whom she had so loved and honored for his deep affection for her, and for his high intellectual and moral worth. And in learning it he had found himself called upon to act as her protector against him who had promised before God and man to love and protect and cherish her at all times. She thought of this, and then of the consequences that might ensue, if her father should be called upon to oppose his entrance to her chamber—he, far advanced in years, and her husband in the vigor of early manhood.—And she trembled at the thought. Sometimes she would resolve to go down stairs and urge her father not to attempt any opposition to his wishes—but when she thought of her helpless babe that lay nestling in her bosom, she hesitated. He was a little rough sometimes!
                  
                  For a long time she lay awake, her mind pained and agitated, but at length she sunk into sleep. From this she was startled by a noise at her door.
                  "You cannot enter here," she heard her father say, in a mild, but positive tone.
                  "It is my wife's chamber, and I will enter. There is not a man on earth who shall prevent me," her husband replied, angrily.
                  "You cannot go in, Doctor."
                  "Stand aside, sir!"
                  "Why will you seek thus to disturb your wife? Remember that it is now midnight, and she asleep with her infant. You are in no condition to enter her chamber. Go into this room, and pass the night—it will be better for you, and better for her."
                  "Stand aside, I say!" laying his hand, at the same time, upon the shoulder of Mr. Atherton.
                  "It is useless for you to persist, Doctor," the old man said, his manner becoming still more positive; "you shall not enter this room to-night, unless it be over my body! My child is there, and since you have forfeited all claim to be her protector, I will resume my former right."
                  "Stand aside, I say!"
                  "Not while I have life."
                  For more than a minute did Doctor Harper confront the old man, looking him all the while sternly in the face; but Mr. Atherton's eye blanched not, nor did his purpose waver for a moment. This was felt by the half-sobered man whose purpose he was opposing.
                  "You will repent this," he said, turning suddenly away, and entering an adjoining chamber, where he threw himself upon a bed, and was soon fast asleep.
                  To convey an idea of what Mrs. Harper suffered during that brief, but, to her, frightful interview, is impossible. At one moment she was ready to throw open the door, and thus end the contest, and even once went so far as to rise and lay her hand upon the lock. But she hesitated, and in an agony of fear stood listening to the stern, angry words of her husband and father expecting every moment to hear the awful sounds of violence. But she was spared that severest trial. Doctor Harper was not so far lost to all consciousness of right, as to have any idea of offering personal violence to Mr Atherton. When he found that the old man resolved to maintain his position at all hazards, he gave up the contest.
                  It would be hard to tell who felt worst on the next morning—or who dreaded most to meet the others at the breakfast table. Doctor Harper was, in a good degree, conscious of what had occurred during the evening and part of the night; although, nothing was distinct to his mind. But enough could be remembered to make him aware that he had acted to the eyes of Mr. Atherton a most astonishing part—and one that made him feel the deepest shame and self-condemnation. His pride, however prevented his exhibiting this, and when 'his father-in-law came down, he met him with the freedom and frank welcoming that he had ever given him at his annual visit. Mrs. Harper came down soon after, and with an effort at cheerfulness took her position at the table. But her thin, pale face, and look of suffering that she could not conceal, recalled, too vividly, the painful events of the night previous. The conversation that was going on between her husband and father became embarrassed, and continued only with an effort on either side, during the meal that was briefly concluded.
                  When Mrs. Harper retired from the table, the two men went into the parlor, where Mr. Atherton at once, and distinctly, alluded to the condition in which he had so unexpectedly found Doctor Harper. As the fault could neither be concealed nor justified, it was, at once, acknowledged, with a promise to renounce entirely all use of ardent spirits. Then followed a full confession to Mr. Atherton of his trials and struggles, and previous resolutions of reformation, in regard to the habit that was fast ruining his peace and prospects. To this Mr. Atherton replied with the best advice, and strongest admonition that he could give. The deep shame and penitence of his son-in law gave him hope; and a sojourn with him for three weeks, during which no man was ever more perfectly sober, confirmed that hope, and made him feel, that in returning home, he might do so without feeling any great degree of uneasiness for his daughter and her family. Before parting with Grace, he conjured her, in the strongest terms, to let him know immediately, should her husband relapse into his former habits, which she promised to do.
                  Scarcely two weeks had passed since her father's return to Baltimore, before Grace became conscious that her husband was again indulging himself. Often, when he came home at night, he would be stupid; and, so soon as he retired to bed, fall into a heavy sleep, and oppress the air of their chamber with the fetid odor of his breath. Six months had hardly rolled around, before he had so given himself up to drink, that every night he would come home so under its influence as to be either insensible, or arbitrary and ill-natured. The consequences to his professional standing may readily be supposed. Family after family withdrew their confidence; and the loss of two or three important cases, through inattention, and inability from drink, to properly understand and administer to them, completed his downfall as a physician in the town of—. It is true, that he was frequently called upon to administer, but not in any families that he cared to retain, nor that were at all desirable to a physician.
                  The effect of all this was to drive him more frequently to the tavern, where he was now to be found oftener than in his office, or engaged in professional business. Of all this Mr. Atherton was profoundly ignorant. Notwithstanding the promise of Grace, she could not bring herself to communicate to her father intelligence of the dreadful change that had so rapidly followed his return to the city. She was sure that he would require her to come home with her children, and abandon her husband, and this she was not prepared to do. It was for this reason that she kept from him what she had faithfully promised to communicate.
                  The gradually diminishing income of Doctor Harper made it necessary that there should be a corresponding reduction of expenses. This his wife saw, and proposed that they should give up the house in which they lived, one of the handsomest in the town, and remove to a pleasant little cottage on the suburbs, then vacant. This was agreed to, and, in due time, they took possession of their new and humbler home. This was a relief to the mind of Mrs. Harper, for now she could shrink from observation, and hide herself away from the curious eyes of those whose pity, no matter how sincere, pained and oppressed her.
                  As has been intimated, that mortification at the condition of her husband, reduced circumstances, and, worse than all, diminished respect and regard for the man in whose affection had been garnered up all her hopes and happiness, were not all the evils to which she had become subjected. Like too many others, drunkenness did not only make Doctor Harper neglectful of his wife and children, but it made him cruel. It not only debased him to the mere selfish and sensual condition of the brute, but made a devil of him. From one of the tenderest and most affectionate of husbands, he had become irritable, jealous, and fault-finding; and when insane, from intoxication, his wife often suffered from physical abuse. His children had learned to fear him, and his wife to tremble at his coming.
                  The cottage in which they now lived, stood just on the suburbs of the town, and was removed to some distance from every other dwelling. Grace often felt very lonely as she sat, night after night, sometimes until twelve, and sometimes until one o'clock, waiting for the return of her husband, who now spent every evening at the tavern, having, with a strange infatuation, almost totally abandoned himself. Sometimes, she would sit, trembling, hour after hour, a prey to vague fears; and, at other times, shrink amid the war and strife of the elements. Naturally timid and fearful, in this lonely, and, it seemed to her, exposed condition, she suffered most intensely. A movement without, that she could not account for, or a slight sound within, breaking in upon the oppressive stillness that surrounded her, as she sat, often with her babe in her arms, waiting for her husband's return, would startle every nerve, and almost paralyze her with strange and uncertain terrors. In vain did she strive to overcome these fears. She could not throw them off—she could not grow familiar with her new condition.
                  One night in the summer of the year after her father, who was still ignorant of her husband's relapse, had visited them, Mrs. Harper observed that a heavy storm was gathering about the horizon. The last few days had been very sultry, and she felt sure that this storm would be accompanied with intense lightning and thunder.
                  "Do not go out to-night, Doctor," she said, laying her hand upon his arm, as he went towards the door with his hat on, after rising from the tea-table; "we are going to have a heavy storm, and you know how much afraid I am of lightning."
                  "Do you think it will hurt you any quicker because I am away?" he replied, in a half-contemptuous tone.
                  "No—but, then, it is so lonely here. I cannot help it—but I always feel dreadfully when I am alone in a storm."
                  "You have the children."
                  "Yes—but they are not like you. Come, don't go out, dear!" she said, in a pleading tone. "Stay with me for once. If you knew how strangely I have felt all day, and how I start and tremble at every sound, you would not leave me to-night, and such a storm as that rising."
                  "I don't believe there will be any storm here to-night," he replied. "It will all go round. So don't give yourself any needless alarm, Grace. I would stay with you if I could, but I have an engagement that I must meet."
                  And so saying, Doctor Harper stepped from the door, and strode hastily away. His poor wife sunk into her chair faint and feeble. She was not what she had been a year or two ago; full of health and confidence, with a 
                        bouyant
                        buoyant
                      step, and a high flow of spirits. Her nerves were all shattered, her spirits depressed, and her heart well nigh broken. A distant roar of thunder startled her, in a few minutes, and she arose and went to the door to take another survey of the horizon. The dark clouds had become rolled together in dense masses, flecked here and there with light, fleecy vapors, that hurried across, moved by stronger currents of air; and the whole storm had reached up towards the zenith, indicating a rapid approach. As she stood looking at it, a fierce line of lightning darted through half the distance from the zenith to the horizon, with intense rapidity, and then a heavy, jarring intonation followed. All this her husband saw and heard, himself but a few hundred yards from the house But he paused not, nor hesitated in his mind, but walked onward with a quickened pace.
                  The heart of the poor wife sank in her bosom as it had never sunk before, with a strange fear, for which she could not at all account. Some new affliction seemed pending over her—some new danger to lurk in her way. Mechanically she proceeded to undress her children, four in number, all mere babes, and to place them in their beds. Then lifting her heart upwards in a silent prayer for comfort and protection, she seated herself near a window with a trembling heart to await the approaching tempest. Rapidly did the dark, angry clouds ascend from the horizon, and spread themselves with threatening aspect over the sky, while ever and anon the fierce flash would leap out from their bosom, and the thunder boom heavily in the distance.
                  At last there came the brooding silence, the deep shadowy darkness of the impending clouds, as the storm hung suspended for a brief period ere it awoke in its strength. To these succeeded a few large drops, touching here and there like the stealthy steps of an approaching enemy. Then, with a sudden wild energy, the storm came down in wind, and hail, and fierce bickering flame, and the crashing of thunder.
                  Pale and statue like, her heart shrinking and fluttering in her bosom, did Mrs. Harper sit alone for more than an hour, with the sound of the wild, roaring tempest in her ears, and her eyes dazzled with the intense quivering flashes of light that blazed out incessantly in broad sheets of flame, while her husband, with a few drinking friends, lounged in the bar-room of a tavern, scarcely heeding the war of elements.
                  At last the lightning came less frequently, and with a tempered glare—the thunder began to roll in the distance, and the wild roaring of the storm to subside.
                  "Thank God, it is over!" she said, glancing upwards, as she arose and paced the room to and fro, her heart relieved from the burden of fear that had oppressed it. Soon all was hushed into oppressive silence, and the hours began to steal away towards midnight, as the lonely wife sat waiting, with her babe in her arms, for the return of her husband.
                  Time passed on, and the candle that stood upon the little table near which she sat, had burned, unnoted by her, low in the socket, when the distant rumbling of the stage fell upon her ear, indicating the hour of twelve.
                  "So late, and yet he has not returned!" she murmured, rousing herself, and listening with an interest that appeared to her strange, to the approaching sound that grew louder and nearer every moment. It seemed as if that midnight stage bore something for her.
                  "Who knows but that father is coming. It is near the time of his regular visit," she said to herself, and then she listened and waited with a new and trembling interest. Presently the stage was almost at the door. It paused—stopped! She sprang to the door, and glanced down the little avenue leading to the main road.
                  "Here is a letter for Mrs. Harper," the driver said, tossing one to Grace; "I have been requested to deliver it in passing, as it contains news of importance."
                  Then dashing forward again, the noise of the wheels soon died on the ears of Mrs. Harper, who had re-entered the house, and was breaking, with trembling hands and fluttering heart, the seal of the letter that had come into her possession, it seemed, so strangely.
                  Its distressing import was soon apparent. Her father had died suddenly on the day before. This much her bewildered senses took in, when her over-tried heart could bear no more. She sank upon the floor insensible.
                  It was near one o'clock when her husband came in half-stupified with drink. The candle had burned out, and all was darkness within his dwelling. Vexed at finding ing no light, he was groping his way across the room, muttering in drunken anger at his wife for the neglect, when he stumbled against her body, and came near falling. Stooping down to feel what it was that had obstructed his steps, he passed his hand over her face, and found it strangely cold and clammy to his touch. A sudden feeling of alarm thrilled his heart, and partly sobered him. After groping about for some time, he succeeded in obtaining a light, which was instantly held close to her face. It was pale as ashes, and death-like in its expression. In her hand she still held the letter she had received. This her husband disengaged from her fingers that were tightly clasped upon it, and read its startling contents. For a moment or two after he had become distinctly conscious of the afflicting event that had so suddenly taken place, his brain reeled—then he was as perfectly sober as ever he was in his life.
                  How keen and heart-searching was the remorse that he felt, as he looked down upon the thin, pale, expressionless face, that was turned towards him, and thought how basely he had betrayed the confidence and trampled upon the affections of the gentle being who had forsaken all for him. Raising her up tenderly, and laying her upon a bed, he assiduously applied such means as he knew would be likely to restore her fleeting senses, and soon perceived the signs of returning animation. At last, as he bent anxiously over her, she opened her eyes, and looked him steadily in the face, with an expression of such hopeless agony, for consciousness had fully returned, that he was affected almost to tears. Then she closed her eyes slowly, while her bosom heaved with a deep oppressive sigh.
                  "Grace!"
                  But she did not seem to near her name, though uttered in a tone of unusual tenderness.
                  "Grace!"
                  She opened her eyes and looked up into the face that bent over her, but her countenance expressed no heartfelt recognition of that voice, once full of power to stir every tender emotion of her nature.
                  "Grace! Dear Grace!"
                  Her eyes had again closed, but now they flew open quickly, and a sudden flash passed over her face.
                  "May I claim," he continued, "to share in your sorrow—to mourn with you? To be again a husband to one I have so madly neglected?" As he spoke thus, Doctor Harper stooped down, and kissed, tenderly, her pale cheek.
                  Quick as thought her arms were about his neck, clasping it with a strong convulsive effort. Then the pent up waters burst forth, and she wept and sobbed upon his bosom for a long, long time, until exhausted nature at last gave way, when succeeded a deep calm, falling upon her spirits like the gentle and peaceful influence of a happier state than that in which she was really involved.
                  A quiet sleep soon fell upon her senses, locking all to her in sweet forgetfulness. In the morning came the full realization of her condition. Then came the cold and heart-aching sensation of bereavement. Then she felt the keen smarting of severed ties, that even the gentle efforts of a truly repentant husband had no power to assuage. But she could not have quiet in her grief. The last sad duties were to be performed. A hurried journey was to be taken that she might look her last look upon the dear face of that father whom her heart had loved with such pure and deep affection.
                  Accompanied by her husband, Mrs. Harper set off early on the morning, and reached Baltimore by the middle of the day. During most of the journey he conversed freely of the past, and solemnly promised her that he would amend. Like assurances he gave her as they returned a few days afterwards, having completed arrangements to remove to the city, where a very handsome property had been left to them. It did not take long to sever the few ties that bound them to—; the scene of exquisite pain to one, and deep mortification and disgrace to the other In a few weeks from the time of Mr. Atherton's removal to a world of spirits, his daughter, with her husband and children, were inmates of his late tasteful, and even elegant residence.
                  A year glided swiftly away, and, as month after month passed, and still her husband remained true to his resolution, the heart of Grace began to gain strength, and the trembling hope of her bosom to acquire confidence. Gradually Doctor Harper obtained a practice, that was extending itself—and, as a physician of decided ability, he was beginning to assume a position that was both honorable to himself and the profession. But, in his resolution as a reformed drinker, he stood alone. And besides, the total abstinence principle, although it had been declared by some to be the only true principle upon which to found a reformation, was looked upon as the scheme of ultraism. In this Doctor Harper agreed with the mass, and would, in consequence, occasionally take a glass of wine, or ale, or cider, as it came in his way. It may readily be perceived in what a dangerous position he stood; nor will it be thought any thing strange that he again fell.
                  "I am going to dine out to day, Grace," he said one morning, more than a year after they had removed to the city, "so do not wait for me."
                  "With whom, dear?" his wife asked, her heart beating with quicker motion, she hardly acknowledged to herself why.
                  "Doctor S— gives a dinner-party to-day, and as Doctors M— and L— of New York are to be there, I wish particularly to be present."
                  "Come home early to tea, then, Doctor," Mrs. Harper said.
                  Her husband promised, and then left his office, to attend to his professional duties.
                  In spite of every effort to throw off what she tried to call an idle concern, Mrs. Harper felt troubled all day long; and towards evening, when the time came for his return, she was nervous and excited, and waited and watched for him with an anxious suspense that she tried in vain to banish from her mind. But he did not come with the twilight, nor for nearly an hour after. Then he returned in a carriage, from which he had to be lifted and supported up to his chamber. He was again intoxicated!
                  From that hour his course was downward. In one year he sunk so low, and became so abandoned to drink, that no one would employ him as a physician. One vice usually brings on another. At least so it proved in his case. The association into which he fell led him to the gambling table as a kind of excitement. Here he wasted rapidly the little fortune he had received at the death of Mr. Atherton.
                  "Grace," he said, one morning, about four years after their removal to the city, "we shall have to sell this house."
                  The pale, care worn, and sorrow-stricken creature, the mere shadow of her former self, lifted her eyes to his face, inquiringly, and asked—
                  "Why sell the house, Doctor?"
                  "To get something to buy bread with"—was the brief answer, in an impatient tone.
                  "I think we had better not sell this house, Doctor," she replied, mildly. "If every thing else is gone, and we sell this, where shall we find a shelter for our children?"
                  "I don't see any sense in starving them in a fine house, if you do," her husband said, angrily. "We must sell it, and thus get something to live on, for every thing else is gone, let me tell you."
                  "All our bank stock?"
                  "Certainly. You didn't suppose it was going to last for ever?"
                  To this Mrs. Harper made no reply. She had long feared that her husband was rapidly wasting their substance; but did not dream that all was gone, except the house in which they lived. And now she was called upon to express a willingness to part with that—to remove with her children she knew not whither.
                  "I can make a good sale of it," her husband proceeded. "Eight thousand dollars are offered for the house and lot."
                  Then producing the title deeds, he added—
                  "You will, of course, consent to the sale, and sign away your right in the property?"
                  "I would rather not do it, Doctor," Mrs. Harper said, looking up into his face, imploringly.
                  
                  "But you will have to do it, madam. I have already sold it, and the purchaser is now waiting to receive a clear title."
                  "How could you do so, Doctor, without an intimation of your design to me. You must have known that I could not leave this house without a painful trial," Mrs. Harper said, giving way to tears.
                  "It's useless to go to crying about it, Grace. The thing can't be helped now. And it's foolish in you to wish to stay here and keep up appearances that we have nothing to sustain. I gave you the last ten dollars we had in the world, besides this house, day before yesterday, and we owe a good many little bills around, which can only be paid out of the proceeds of this sale. So come, put your name to the paper. Eight thousand dollars will last a good while. We can move into a smaller house, and live very comfortably—especially as I am going to open an office again, and give more attention to business."
                  Grace took the deed in her hand, and ran her eye over it, although she did not comprehend the meaning of a single word, for her mind was altogether abstracted.
                  "Here's a pen," her husband said.
                  And she took the pen in her fingers mechanically.
                  "Sign here," he proceeded, placing his finger opposite to one of the seals printed on the document, and Mrs. Harper bent over the paper which her husband had pressed down upon the table.
                  "There, sign there," continued Doctor Harper, eagerly and in a kinder tone of voice.
                  "Sign for what?" Mrs. Harper now said, rousing herself and throwing off the dreamy abstraction under which she had been laboring
                  "Why, sign a transfer of this deed to Mr.—."
                  "The deed of this house?"
                  "Certainly!"
                  "No, Doctor, I cannot do that," and the pen dropped from her hand.
                  "But you must sign it!"
                  "I cannot."
                  "You shall sign it!" and her husband's face grew flushed, and his voice was loud and angry.
                  But neither threats, commands, nor persuasions, could move her. She would not sign away her interest in the property, and the sale could not be made. For months after, her husband pursued a regular course of persecution in order to gain her over to his wishes. But she was firm in her duty to her children. She would not deprive them of a home.
                  Still it was only a home in name, without some new effort on her part. As her husband had said, every thing else was gone, and there was no means within to buy broad. But his want of money for his own base purposes, joined with her want of money to supply the need of her family, and by a common consent, various articles of furniture were sold: he using part of the proceeds in drinking and gambling. This, Mrs. Harper was aware, could only be a temporary expedient, and she began to cast about in her mind for some employment, in which she could be enabled to supply the wants of her children.
                  In her education, no care or expense had been spared by her father. While at school, she attained a more than ordinary proficiency in the various branches that were taught; and especially in music, had she acquired a high degree of excellence. For some years, however, she had felt little inclined to give attention to her music, and had consequently lost much of her power over the instruments upon which she had once performed with exquisite skill. But a natural taste for music, united with a very fine ear for musical sounds, soon enabled her, with the practice of a few hours every day, to bring back a large portion of what had been lost, and to add much that was new.
                  When confidence in her own abilities was restored, she, after consultation with her husband, who readily consented, advertised to give lessons in music, either at her own house, or at the houses of her pupils. A few scholars were obtained to whose instruction she gave all the required attention. But this new demand upon her physical energies soon made it painfully apparent to her that she was assuming duties beyond her strength. The care of her children, and an almost constant devotion to household duties, were enough for her feeble frame, weakened by long-continued mental sufferings, to bear; but when were added to these, new and even severer efforts, she felt that she was taxing a delicate constitution, already much broken, too far. If, in all this wearying toil, she had met the quick sympathy of her husband, she might have borne up. But to see him coming and going every day—a strong, healthy man, except so far as indulgence in drink had weakened his physical frame—eating of the bread she had provided in weariness, and sometimes pain, for her children, and not even giving her a kind look or word, broke down her spirits, and, at times, almost disheartened her. But the sight of her children, and the thought of them, kept her up.
                  Still she failed gradually; and after the devotion of a few months to her new duties, found herself growing daily weaker and weaker. Every morning on awaking, instead of being refreshed, she experienced a feeling of lassitude that it required an effort to overcome; and frequently, during the day, while standing at the piano, giving lessons, a faintness would come over her, requiring, often, a brief cessation of her labors. Thus she continued for nearly two years, receiving pupils in her own house part of each day, and, during another portion of it, giving lessons at the dwellings of some of her scholars. Her evenings, or rather half of her nights, were regularly given to her family, as she could only afford to keep a single servant, a kind of doer of all work. In this way, she was barely able to provide a scanty support for her children and husband.
                  How cheerfully would she have performed it all, over-wearying as it was, had the necessity for such a devotion of herself been a legitimate one—had her husband been in ill health, or deprived of business by circumstances beyond his control. But to see him passing to and fro daily, loathsome in appearance, brutalized in mind, unkind, and utterly regardless of herself or his children; was a trial too severe for her to bear up under. It seemed almost impossible for her to realize that he was the same kind, affectionate tionate, high-minded, intelligent man to whom, in her brighter days, she had yielded up the affections of her young heart. Yet still she felt that it was, alas! too true—and what was worse, there seemed for her hard condition no remedy.
                  For more than a year after the effort to induce his wife to sign away her right in the last remnant of their property, Doctor Harper, almost constantly under the influence of liquor, pursued towards her a systematic course of persecution, in order to break down her determination. Durall that time no pleasant word was spoken to her; and her anxious eye sought his face again and again, day after day, for a single look of kindness, but in vain. All of her gentle attentions were received with indifference, an angry coldness, or direct repulsion. Still she continued them, with a persevering sense of duty, that would have won upon any heart but one made callous by the perverting influence of such a low, sensual indulgence as that to which her husband had become addicted. No angry word was met with a like reply. Indifference was not repaid by indifference, nor neglect by neglect. In all her relations of a wife, she acted the part of a true wife, in duty—in affectionate attention, if it is possible for a woman's heart to be moved by the holy principle of love for an object so repulsive, none were more faithful than she. And yet, for more than twelve months, her ear never took in a kind word, nor was her heart made to leap under the influence of a pleasant look or smile.
                  But she was immovable, under a trial that would have broken down the resolution of almost any woman. The deep love she bore for her little ones, kept her ever nerved to endure the trial, and she did endure it to the end.
                  The selfishness of her husband caused him to change somewhat, in his manner towards her at last. Without credit, or the means of procuring money, he found himself unable to obtain the daily potations his insatiable thirst for strong drink required. There was no one to whom he could look but his wife: and to her he at last turned with a semblance of kindness, that fell upon her heart as refreshingly as the gentle dews to the parched ground.
                  "Can you spare me half a dollar, Grace?" he said one morning, in a mild, conciliatory tone, as he was about to go out.
                  It was the first time he had spoken to her in kindness for more than a year.
                  "Certainly, Doctor," she responded, while the tears dimmed her eyes. And she handed him the desired amount.
                  He returned a grateful look and word. How that look and word lived in her memory through the day, and lightened the toil that she had found so hard to endure.
                  On the next morning a like request was made, and granted even more cheerfully than the first. Indeed the poor wife had begun to fear that he would not ask again.
                  Daily now was this new draft made upon her slender resources. But it was met with a degree of pleasure that she hardly acknowledged to herself. It was a sacrifice, and required new efforts, but to her it was a small sacrifice for so great a gain—the pleasant looks and words of her husband, even were they but half sincere.
                  She now gave renewed attention to his appearance, and tried in every way to make his home a pleasant place. But how vain the effort! Every day he would come home, or be brought home, intoxicated; his clothes, to which she had given so much care, and upon which she would often exhaust her slender means, torn or soiled, and his face frequently disfigured by bruises from having fallen in the street. Only in the morning was he at all rational, but rarely repentant. For the brief pleasure then given, she had to pay dearly; he soon became more exacting, and would frequently want a dollar instead of half the amount at first solicited. The refusal, no matter upon what ground, of his request, made him angry. Poor Mrs. Harper had endured that anger so long, that no sacrifice seemed too great to turn it aside. She therefore, always gave him the money he asked for if in her power.
                  But his want of money soon went far beyond her power to supply, and then succeeded seasons of clouds and gloom, to which her ordinary affliction of mind was but as a passing obscuration. All this tended to break down her health more rapidly. The artificial stimulus, when withdrawn, left her weakened frame to sink into a feebler condition, from which she, in vain, endeavored to rouse herself. At last she broke down suddenly, and had to take to her bed. Overtasked nature would bear up no longer.
                  "Can't you stay home with me to-day, Doctor?" she said, lifting her languid eyes to her husband's face, as she saw him preparing to go out on the morning after she was taken suddenly ill with a prostrating fever, and then turning them upon her four children, who were sitting about the room, neglected and spiritless.
                  The wretched man did not reply, but paced the floor backwards and forwards for a long time. The desire for liquor was on him, and it was overpowering. But he had no money, and he did not believe that his wife had any. And even if she had, some touches of shame and reluctance arose in his mind at the idea of asking for it under such circumstances. Still debating in his own mind whether he should ask her or not, he continued walking the room for full half an hour, when he turned away and went down stairs. There he paced the floor for half an longer before going out. As he was sober, all this brought reflections of no very pleasant character.
                  "It is too late to mend now," he muttered to himself, as he walked hurriedly along, "I must have something to drink, or it will set me crazy."
                  "Lend me half a dollar, Mr.—," he said, suddenly turning into the shop of a tailor, in whose family he had once practised.
                  The request came so unexpectedly, and was for so small a sum, that Mr.—put his hand into his pocket and was about handing out the piece of coin he had been asked for, when he recollected himself and paused.
                  "What do you want with it, Doctor?" he asked, looking the individual he addressed steadily in the face.
                  Harper stammered out an incoherent reply, to which Mr.—responded by gently admonishing him in regard to his conduct.
                  "It's no use to talk to me about changing now, Mr.—. I've tried to do it too often," he said, doggedly.
                  "But I know that there is use. Come to our Washington meeting to-night at Union Hall, and you will be satisfied that you can reform."
                  "I don't believe it," was the reply, as he turned away and left the shop.
                  For at least an hour did Doctor Harper wander about, before he returned. As he came into her chamber again, his wife saw that he had not been drinking. He came to her bed-side, felt her pulse, and wrote a prescription, which he handed to her, and then went down stairs. Mrs. Harper sent her oldest child to the druggist's, and obtained the medicine he had directed, and took it. It was about an hour afterwards when he came up, and again inquired, kindly, how she did. At dinner time he sat down with the children, and eat sparingly. Then he wandered about the house most of the afternoon like one bewildered, and at night, after tea, went out as usual. But not to the tavern. He had thought much of what Mr.—had said to him about going to Union Hall, and the more he thought about it, the more he felt inclined to go. To the meeting of the Washington Temperance Society he therefore went, and before leaving the Hall signed the pledge, as has been related in the opening of this number.
                  When he came home, he went up to his wife's bedside, and stood for some moments looking down upon her face, now flushed with fever. There was a rapid play of the muscles through every feature, and a restlessness that indicated an activity of mind, although her eyes were closed, and she seemed asleep. Suddenly she opened them, and looked up into his face with a wild staring expression. Her lips moved, and he bent down his head to listen.
                  "You won't kill me, Doctor, will you?" she said, in a husky whisper.
                  "Kill you, Grace! Why should I kill you?"
                  "I havn't another cent in the world But you won't kill me?"
                  The bewildered husband did not know how to reply. Could her mind be wandering? He took her hand, and found that her pulse was strong and quick—beating at least one hundred and fifty in the minute. It was too true. The fever had risen so high that delirium had supervened.
                  "I've given it all to you, Doctor," she added, looking up into his face imploringly; "and I'd give you my heart's blood if it would do you any good. Don't speak so coldly to me. Don't look so angry. I have done my best, dear;" and the poor creature tried to smile with a look of affection. But it was a faint and ghastly smile, indicating the anguish of crushed affection, rather than the play of a living motion.
                  "I won't be angry any more, dear Grace! I won't look cold, nor speak unkindly any more," her husband said, soothingly and tenderly, as he bent down and pressed his lips to her's that were burning with fever. "I will love you again, and care for you, as I once did."
                  For an instant, the suffering wife looked her husband intently in the face. His words, she scarcely understood, but that act of genuine tenderness towards her, her heart perceived, even in delirium.
                  "It is all well," she murmured, while a sweet smile, whose genuine expression could not be mistaken, lit up every feature, as she closed her eyes, and sunk away into a gentle sleep.
                  But the fever abated not. In half an hour she awoke, still unsettled, but with the remembrance of that moment of reconciliation indelibly fixed in her mind. All night long did her husband sit by her bedside, the excitement of the scene compensating for the physical excitement that had been so suddenly withdrawn, and thus keeping his nerves fully strung. Towards morning the fever of his wife abated, and she sunk into a deep sleep. She looked so thin and pale, and death-like as he bent over her, that his heart bounded with an involuntary emotion of fear lest nature had become too much exhausted.
                  
                  It was long after daylight when she again awoke, an expression of intelligence flitting over her countenance. She found her husband sitting by the bedside, holding her hand in his, and gazing down into her face with a look of subdued tenderness. She closed her eyes for a moment or two, as if to collect her mind, and then opened them again, and gazed intently upon him.
                  "Was it not all a sweet dream, then?" she murmured, in a doubting tone.
                  "No, Grace, it is no dream; but a blessed reality," her husband softly answered, bending over and kissing her. "From this hour I am a changed man—from this hour I will be to you what I was in years long passed away: the remembrance of which is still dear to me. Last night I threw myself within the sphere of the great moral reformation that is now progressing—the temperance reformation—and I feel, I know, that there is in that sphere a sustaining power that will keep me true to my pledge. For the past, I dare not ask you to forgive me. If you can, let its deeds sink as much as possible into oblivion. But for the future, take hope. In the strength of Him whose divine power is present in every good resolution, I will be true to my wife, my children, and myself!"
                  In what better language than that of the following couplet can I describe the effect of this declaration upon the poor wife of Dr. Harper, to whom hope had sprung up suddenly as she had felt herself just entering the caverns of despair. 
                        
                           "She rose—she sprung—she clung to his embrace,
                           Till his heart heaved beneath her hidden face."
                        
                     
                  
                  And there she lay, weak as an infant, and full of the innocent, trusting affection of an infant, for a long, long time. So many years had passed since she could lie there with a feeling of confidence, that it seemed as if she could never be willing to remove her head from his bosom. At last, she murmured, lifting herself up, and sinking back upon her pillow, while the tears lay upon her cheeks,—
                  "We shall be happy again, dear husband!"
                  And they were again happy. Doctor Harper was not mistaken in the power of association. Up to this time, he has not only kept his pledge, but is one among the most active members of the temperance society. He has resumed the practice of medicine, and is fast acquiring confidence, and we doubt not will yet rise to eminence in his profession.
                  
                  
                     
                        THE BOTTLE.
                        SCENE 7th.—THE HUSBAND, IN A STATE OF FURIOUS DRUNKENNESS, KILLS HIS WIFE WITH THE INSTRUMENT OF ALL THEIR MISERY.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               THE WIDOW'S SON.
               
               THE WIDOW'S SON.
               IT had snowed heavily throughout the day, but towards evening the temperature moderated, and it commenced raining steadily, with every appearance of the storm continuing for the night. The light snow, now thoroughly saturated with water, made the walking so bad that few individuals ventured forth, unless acted upon by the impulse of necessity, or seeking the gratification of some strong desire.
               It was the last named motive that induced me to leave a comfortable fireside. So much had I become interested in the progress of the great movement that was in action, that I was eager to observe all its phases, I therefore availed myself of every opportunity to attend the meetings of the Reformers. This was the regular night, and I considered the question but a moment, before resolving to think but lightly of the storm.
               As I picked my way through Lombard, in the neighborhood of Light street, I observed a man staggering along before me, evidently intoxicated. At the corner of Light street he paused, and looked, for some time, down towards the wharf, evidently debating an undecided question. While he thus stood, I came up to him, and saw that he was a man in the prime of life, miserably clad, and shivering with the cold. The rain had penetrated his garments until they were dripping—his feet, upon which were a pair of worn stockings, and shoes full of holes, were, of course, thoroughly soaked with the snow water, and were, as I supposed, nearly frozen.
               Hundreds of times before had I passed such miserable creatures in the street with a feeling of shrinking disgust but now my heart yearned for the poor wretch, shivering and shrinking in the storm, even though he was a debased drunkard, and in a state of intoxication.
               "What are you doing out on such a night as this, my friend?" I said to him in a kind tone.
               "I should think it would not take you long to guess," he replied, with some bitterness.
               "Not after more of the accursed poison that has ruined you?" I said.
               "What else do you think could bring me out on a night like this? But I have no money, and am burning up with thirst. Give me a few cents, sir, in the name of Heaven!"
               "I cannot do that, my friend, because it would do you harm. But why not drink water, if you are so dry?"
               "Water! water! then give me some water, or I shall be consumed with the fire within me."
               I took hold of the wretched man's arm, and led him along until I came near a little shop, into which I went, and procured for him a glass of water. He drank it off with trembling eagerness.
               "Now, my friend," I said, kindly and encouragingly, "wouldn't you give worlds, if you had them, to be able to break away from the bondage in which you now are?"
               "Worlds!" he ejaculated with energy; "yes, millions of worlds! But my case is hopeless. Hundreds and hundreds of times have I resolved to reform, and hundreds and hundreds of times have I endeavored to put my good resolution into practice, but it was no use—I always went back again, and, at every such relapse, became worse. There is no hope—no hope!"
               O how sad and mournful were his tones as he uttered that brief sentence!
               "There is hope, my friend!" I remarked in a quick, confident, energetic voice, meant to inspire him, if possible, with a new resolution.
               "How? Where? Do not mock me, sir," he replied—at first in a tone of confidence, that subsided into one of despondency and doubt.
               "Have you not heard of the Washingtonians?"
               "The Washingtonians? No. Who are they?"
               "Reformed drinkers. Many of them men who were as far gone as you are."
               "You are trifling with me, sir," the poor man said, shaking his head slowly. "No one ever heard of men like me reforming. Every body gives us over to destruction, and to destruction we go without a hand strong enough being reached out to save us."
               "I have heard of many such," I replied, with emphatic earnestness, "and if you will go with me to-night, I will show you more than a hundred men once as bad, if not worse than you are, who have reformed. And they will tell you so themselves, and tell you how you may reform. And not only tell you how, but will assist you to reform. Will you go with me?"
               "I will," was his prompt answer.
               And then he walked along with me, much sobered, while I said every thing I could to encourage him. We soon arrived at the meeting house. Notwithstanding the very inclement night, there were several hundreds present. The meeting not being yet organized, many individuals came round the poor wretch I had brought in, and commenced talking to him. I pointed to the condition of his feet, when, on examination, it was found that they were benumbed, and nearly frozen. A bucket of pump water was immediately obtained and his feet plunged into it, and held there until sensation was restored. Then a pair of dry, warm stockings, and a pair of new, stout shoes were placed upon them, and some of his drenched clothes removed, and warm, dry, coarse garments were given to him in their stead.
               He seemed bewildered at all this. He could but dimly comprehend its meaning. But he was becoming more and more sobered every moment. By this time the regular proceedings of the meeting had begun, which consisted principally of the relation of experiences. To these he listened with the deepest interest, and often could be seen drawing his hand across his eyes, evidently much affected. As one and another told how they had been enabled, by signing the pledge, and joining actively in the operations of the society, to overcome entirely the thirst for liquor, that had at one time been intolerable, I could see him lifting his head with an air of confidence that made my heart feel glad in my bosom.
               After the speaking was over, and the pledge was read, he was the first to go forward and inscribe his name. As he returned to his seat, I stepped forward, and took his hand.
               "You will keep that pledge, I know you will," I said, confidently.
               "I feel as sure of it, as that I am standing here. I feel that there is a power here, in this society, that will sustain me. O, sir, I can never thank you enough for bringing me here!"
               "Remain faithful, and that will be my highest reward."
               "I will, I will," he replied, earnestly grasping my hand, and then passing on to his seat.
               I need not say that my heart glowed in my bosom, and that I felt more than ever resolved to speak a warning or encouraging word to the poor drunkard wherever I should meet him. The history of the individual I have alluded to is one of much interest, involving details of a tender and pathetic character. I received it in part from his own lips, months after his reformation, and partly from his aged mother, who has invoked blessings on my head a hundred and a hundred times. Without further preliminaries, I will introduce it to the reader.
               THE WIDOW'S SON.
               "Alfred!"
               "I am here, father," replied the son, coming quickly to the bed side, and bending over his dying parent with tender solicitude, mingled with deep sorrow at the sad bereavement he was evidently about to sustain.
               "Is your mother here, Alfred?' the father said, as his son, just verging upon manhood, stood near him.
               "She has left the room for a few moments. Shall I call her?"
               "No, my son, for I wish to speak to you alone."
               A brief pause ensued, and then the father proceeded:—
               "Alfred, a child can never know all that a tender mother feels for him—all that she has suffered for him. If he could know it, and feel it, he would never neglect her, or think lightly of her. You, my son, have been blessed with the tenderest mother—one who, from the moment the light of this world dawned upon you, has not ceased to love you, and care for you with the most affectionate solicitude. Time nor strength will permit me to tell you of all her care, and anxiety, and watchfulness over you through the period of infancy and youth, nor how untiring have been her exertions in the effort to impress upon you those high and pure principles that, if obeyed, will be your guide and defence in manhood. And now, that I am about to leave you—now that he, upon whom your mother has leaned for thirty years, is about being taken from her, will not her only son repay her deep and untiring solicitude by a return of care and affection that shall, in some degree, compensate for so great a loss? But I need not ask you this question, my son. I have confidence in you. I am sure that the genuine truths that we have endeavored so carefully to implant in your mind, must and will take root, and produce good fruits. As for me, my son, standing as I now do upon the utmost verge of time, I am not afraid to pass through the narrow strait of death. I am conscious that I have endeavored, through a long life, to live in obedience to the pure and elevated principles of goodness and truth, and this now sustains me. And I pass away from this stage of existence with the more calmness under the deep consciousness which I have, that my removal will only bind the two beloved ones whom I leave behind me, in stronger bonds of affection. Love your mother, then, my boy, with a deeper and purer love than ever you have yet felt for her. Regard her with a tenderer interest. Do not mourn for me, for I shall not be altogether separated from you. They who truly love each other are ever spiritually present, though they may be absent as to body. I shall no longer be encumbered with a gross body, and shall therefore be, in affection, more intimately conjoined to you. Think often of this—think often of me, and this very thought will bring a degree of presence."
               The feeble old man uttered thus much, and then sunk back upon the bed, exhausted. At that moment she to whom he had been alluding came into the room, and approaching the bed-side, bent over her dying partner with eyes dimmed by the waters of affection that would unseal their fountains. As she stood thus, he took her hand and placed it within that of his son, and pressing them both, said:
               "Alfred, love your mother, and confide in her. You are just entering the world—a strange and evil world, with thousands of varied allurements and temptations. Trust much to your mother's experience and counsel. Never do any thing that she condemns or opposes, for, remember that she has ever loved you and cared for you, and must still continue to regard your good in all that she says or does. A mother who truly loves her son, has perceptions of right and wrong, far above his rational discriminations, especially when he is just entering upon life. Would that you might ever feel this truth, that a mother's affection for her child is like a sensitive plant, that perceives the slightest touch of that which might injure! But I need say no more—I know your love for her whose guardian care has ever been about you."
               Weak physical nature sunk under this effort, and the old man closed his eyes, still clasping the hands of his two most beloved earthly objects within his own. For many minutes he lay in a deep calm, with his eyes closed. Neither the mother nor son attempted to withdraw their hands. At last the still apparent pressure of his fingers began to subside, and they perceived that his touch was growing colder. This aroused them to consciousness. He was dead!
               We will not linger to picture the deep grief that weighed down the spirits of mother and son for months after he to whom their affections had clung for many years was removed from them. Gradually the keen edge of sorrow became less acute, as the cares of this world, from which none are free, pressed upon them, and demanded a due consideration.
               Alfred Lennox, acting under the advice of his father who had devoted the best years of his life to legal pursuits, studied law as a profession under one of the most eminent jurists in Maryland. A few months before the death of his father he had been admitted to the Baltimore bar, and had already conducted one or two cases with no ordinary degree of tact and judgment.
               On setting up his father's estate, of which he had been constituted, by the will, executor, he found that a very large investment which his father had made in stocks, was likely to prove a loss. Before he could make arrangements to sell, even at a sacrifice, the corporation which had issued the stock failed, leaving no assets to pay the holders of its script. This unlooked for event made it necessary for Alfred to devote himself more assiduously to his profession. Under the idea that they had a competence, he had felt only the impulse of a desire to be eminent in his profession urging him on—now he had the stronger power of necessity inciting him to activity. The consequence was, that he bent himself to his legal duties with an energy and industry that, with his mind and education, could not but ensure him success.
               It had not needed the dying injunction of Mr. Lennox to cause Alfred to be devoted to his mother. But that injunction had caused him to think more of her, and with a tenderer regard and more earnest solicitude. Before his father's death he had always consulted him, and had ever found him a judicious adviser. Now, he transferred his confidence to his mother—but with this difference, that he endeavored to aid her rational mind in the consideration of a debated point, where action was required, by a full statement of all reasons pro and con that were presented to his own mind, leaving her to that intuitive perception of the true difference, for which the female mind, when not biassed by selfish and evil affections, and sustained by man's rational faculty, is so remarkable. He did not, of course, as a man, lay aside his rationality, and allow himself to be blindly influenced. He only sought the aid of a woman's perceptions to enable him to see a doubtful point in a truly rational light. For he had been taught by his father this truth—that there are many things in which a woman's perceptions are more to be confided in than a man's reasonings.
               This confidence drew him nearer to his mother, and caused her widowed heart to lift itself up with a new emotion of pleasure. Still, conscious of the evil that must beset the path of one so young, and altogether inexperienced in the world's ways, she felt for him a daily concern, that made her close in all her observations. But she was judicious in this carefulness. She was cautious not to make him feel restraint—nor to destroy his rational freedom; but, rather, to guard him by counsels that did not seem, and were not felt as such.
               It is, alas! an evil world in which we live, and its evils are rendered tenfold more powerful in consequence of the reciprocal evils in ourselves; and often while we are guarding one point, the enemy is making a breach at another. It had never occurred to either Mr. Lennox or Alfred's mother, to warn him of the evils of intemperance, the dangers of which had not been so generally perceived and felt, as they have in later days. The rare cases of drunkenness which had occurred up to that period, rapidly increasing, however, about that time, had been looked upon as such degrading instances of human folly, that no one of the standing and moral purity of Alfred Lennox, was dreamed of as in danger. Liquors of various kinds were, therefore, habitually used as beverages; and it had become a custom of the young lawyers to meet frequently in convivial and wine-drinking parties in various places, out most usually at some tavern where a room was hired for the purpose. Alfred being a favorite with the young men of the profession, was usually an invited guest at all of them, so that he was present at such parties almost every week. It pleased his mother to see him thus enjoying himself, for in that enjoyment she did not perceive the slightest danger.
               This course of life continued for some two or three years, during which time young Lennox was fast rising into distinction, and acquiring an extensive practice. But, alas! during that time, habits had gradually been forming, that were ultimately to be his ruin. The keen zest with which a young man of buoyant mind enters into almost any thing that presents itself involving excitement and companionship, is well known. And it greatly depends on his entrance into life, and upon the character of those who become his associates, whether he rises to honorable distinction, or becomes debased by the predominance of low and sensual appetites. Unfortunately for Alfred Lennox, his companions were not of the truly right stamp. Not that they were base and low; but because they too readily joined in the gratification of mere appetite and passion, and thus gradually bore each other downwards, instead of rising together in a mutual superiority over the grovelling power of sensuality.
               Nothing had reached Mrs. Lennox's ears, or met her eyes, that warned her of the danger that was lurking in the path of her son. But she felt, at the end of the second year after her husband's death, that all was not right. The presence of Alfred, affectionate and attentive to her though he still remained, and though he still loved her with unabated tenderness, did not affect her so pleasantly as it had previously done. She seemed to feel, as she sat by his side, an emanation of something from him that was repulsive to her own pure and high feelings. It was not long afterwards that she noted something in the expression of his face that pained her—something indistinct, yet ever and anon recurring, that indicated a progressive change in his moral character, that her heart pronounced not good.
               A sudden alarm was the consequence, rousing her mind into active observation. It was not long before she discovered covered a weakness that startled her with new and painful fears. She observed that his love of wine and brandy was increasing—that he drank double the quantity at dinner that he had been in the habit of taking a year before; and, also, that his mind was always a little excited, confused, or wandering after this indulgence. Still, it seemed so improbable that her son could ever become debased by drink, that she tried to dismiss from her heart the fear that oppressed it. But she could not. Every time she saw him recurring again and again to his wine or brandy and observed its effects upon him, her heart would sink in her bosom.
               "You never stay at home with me now a single evening in the week, Alfred," she said to him, kindly, one evening about this time.
               "It is true, mother," he replied, in a tone of affection, "but, then, I have so many engagements on my hands that it occupies all my time."
               "Still, I cannot help thinking that you might spare me a single evening now and then. I am old now and lonely."
               Mrs. Lennox's voice slightly trembled.
               "I feel that I have done wrong, mother," Alfred said, after a pause. "I ought not to neglect you for any engagement. And I will not. To-night's engagement I will break and stay at home with you."
               "No, Alfred, I will not have you fail to keep any engagement on my account," Mrs. Lennox said, in a more cheerful tone, for the prompt resolution of her son had reassured her. "Go as you have promised. Hereafter I shall be glad to have your society whenever I can have it without interfering with your duties or your lawful recreations."
               Alfred hesitated awhile; but, at length, urged by his mother, went out. He proceeded at once to a room in the Fountain Inn, Light street, where half a dozen young men were collected for a wine drinking frolic.
               "Hero's Lennox at last! Why, we've been waiting this half hour for you," said one, as he seated himself at the table, which was plentifully supplied with glasses.
               "Why did you wait for me?" he asked
               "O, because we wish to start fair," was the reply "I'm going to make every man here drunk to-night."
               "Indeed!"
               "Yes. I can drink more wine than any person in the room, and then walk home to my lodgings without staggering, while every one of you lies under the table as drunk as Bacchus."
               "I can stand as much as you, I know," responded one.
               "And so can I," added another.
               "I'm not afraid," chimed in a third.
               And so it ran around the table; no one showing any disposition to reject the challenge. Then the trial commenced at once between these young men, emulous of degradation. For a moment or two Alfred thought of his mother, and the interview which he had just held with her; but the spirit of insane emulation that prevailed among his friends was almost instantly superinduced upon his own mind, and he was not only ready, but willing, and delighted, to enter upon the trial.
               The consequence was, that at eleven, o'clock, he fell from his chair perfectly intoxicated. One after another of his companions followed him, until only two remained, the challenger and another, who, though far gone, had just sense enough left to agree upon a truce, and then to go off home, leaving the others to take their drunken sleep out under the table.
               It had been Mrs. Lennox's habit to retire at the usual hour, whether Alfred were in or not. But on this evening, she felt in hopes that he would return early, and therefore continued to sit up, expecting his return every moment, until the clock struck twelve.
               "He ought not to stay out so late," she murmured to herself, the impropriety of his doing so, forcing itself strongly upon her mind.
               Another hour passed away, and then she retired to her bed, and lay, listening an hour longer, in the hope of hearing him enter. Finally she fell asleep, but was frequently awakened, ere the morning broke, by troubled dreams At day-dawn she arose, and ascertained that Alfred had returned. This was a relief to her mind—though the fact of his having staid out so late troubled her, she scarcely knew why.
               When the bell rang for breakfast, Alfred came down. He had returned a little before daybreak, pretty well sobered, and deeply mortified at the result of his drinking frolic. His inclination was to lie down again and sleep off the effects of his debauch; but his anxiety to keep it from his mother's observation was so strong, that he roused himself up, and made every preparation that he could to meet her, so as to throw off any suspicion of the truth. But he could not disguise the too evident marks of a deep debauch, from which he was but partially recovered. One glance of his mother's eye, sufficed to tell her but too truly that her son had fallen.
               The effect of this discovery upon her mind was too painful to be concealed. A moment or two she looked into his face, with a forced calmness—but nature was too powerful to be controlled. The tears gushed from her eyes; and rising, she left the table, and retired to her chamber.
               "Mother!" he called after her, in a feeble, hesitating tone. But she did not hear him; or, hearing, did not pause at her name. Then he, likewise, arose from the table, and went into his own room, his mind oppressed with the keenest remorse. Conscious that his appearance was such, that to seek her presence would only add to her distress of mind, he threw himself upon his bed, and endeavored to lose himself in sleep. Still oppressed and sluggish from the effects of his debauch, he soon fell into a profound slumber, that lasted for several hours. When he awoke his mother was standing over him, and looking down into his face with an expression of tender solicitude, mingled with a look of suffering that deeply touched his feelings.
               For some time after Mrs. Lennox had retired to her chamber, her mind was in a tumult of distress. None but a mother can imagine the anguish of her heart on making the discovery that her pure-minded, noble-spirited boy had fallen from the calm, rational dignity of manhood by a weak self-indulgence. And with this discovery, was the chilling fear, that, being once upon enchanted ground, no power could awaken him from his delusion. The paralyzing influence of such thoughts and feelings, could not long remain. A sense of duty aroused her.
               "What can I do? What must I do?" were questions hard to answer. Still, she must act. Danger was lurking in the path of her son, and she must, if possible, so make him sensible of that danger, as to arouse him into watchfulness.
               It was nearly an hour after she had retired abruptly, as has been stated, to her room, that she found herself sufficiently composed to leave it. On coming down stairs, she was greatly relieved to find that Alfred had not gone out. She did not inquire for him, for she was particularly anxious not to have, if possible, the attention of the servants directed to his aberration. Not finding him in the parlor, she concluded that he was in his chamber, and, perhaps, asleep. But, as hour after hour passed away, and he did not appear, her anxiety about him increased to such an extent that she could not rest until she had seen him, and learned something of his state of mind. She therefore went to his chamber, and tapped lightly upon the door. No answer following, she tapped again and again, with no better success.
               "He is asleep, and I will not disturb him," she said, and so retired again to her own room. The very tenderness of her affection now caused her to begin to make excuses for him. She reasoned, that, like hundreds of other young men, he had been led on to drink, unsuspectingly until he was overcome. He had spoken of an engagement for the previous evening, which was doubtless with some of his male companions, with whom he had lingered too long over the wine.
               Thus she comforted herself, and excused him, her anxiety to meet him increasing every moment. It was not long before she was again tapping at his room door, but with no better success. Finding that he did not answer, it was suddenly suggested to her mind that he might not be there. Instantly she opened the door and entered. He was lying in a deep sleep upon the bed, his face flushed, and his breathing hard. The air of the room was oppressed with the vile odor of his breath, the inhalation of which made his mother sick. Stepping lightly to the windows, she opened them, and after letting the room get thoroughly ventilated, closed them again, and went and stood over him. His face had already become paler, and his respiration less deep and oppressive. The pure air had already imparted its healthy influence.
               "Alfred, my son!" she said in a low, earnest voice, laying her hand gently upon him.
               But his ear was too deeply sealed. He could not hear her.
               "Alfred, Alfred!" she called, still louder.
               Her voice was now evidently heard, for he aroused partially, in which state he lay for some time, consciousness gradually returning. At length he opened his eyes, and saw his mother bending over him. But he quickly closed them again, and for some moments endeavored to collect his scattered senses.
               "Alfred, my son!" Mrs. Lennox said, tenderly.
               That low, earnest tone, full of maternal pathos, thrilled upon his heart. He felt that it was a tone of forgiveness, but mingled with grief. It touched the fountains of emotion, and the waters could not be restrained. Mrs. Lennox saw the quivering of his closed eyelids, and then the drops oozing forth, the tokens of repentance.
               "My dear child!" she murmured, stooping down and kissing him. "Let this one lesson be a sufficient warning."
               "It is—it shall be!" he whispered, the tears now gushing forth, and rolling in large pure drops over his cheeks.
               "Then, Alfred, let the past be thought of—not with remorse that gives present unhappiness, but with a resolution fixed and immutable never again to be charmed by the voice of a deluding Syren—never again to have your garments soiled."
               "Can you forgive me, mother, this first and last departure from a right path—that path in which you have so steadily guided my early footsteps?" the young man asked, looking up into his mother's face.
               "You are already forgiven, Alfred," was her reply "Only guard yourself in future, and the past will soon cease to be remembered by me with pain. If again tempted, think of the widowed mother resigned to your care by a dying father. Recur to that parting scene, and surely no temptation can again overcome you."
               Thus soothed and encouraged, Alfred Lennox gradually recovered himself. From that time he was more attentive to his mother, and remained at home with and read to her more frequently in the evening. But his painful feelings in thinking of his debauch, arose principally from the fact that his mother had discovered its effect upon him Had she known nothing of it, he would have felt little concerned about the matter, and recurred to it only to laugh with his gay companions.
               As to the use of liquors, he did not dream of abating that in any degree, except in the presence of his mother, to whom he plainly perceived that it gave pain. What he abated in her presence was, however, made up when out of it. As often as half a dozen times a day would be resort to the tavern with some two or three of his professional and other friends to drink, and as frequently during the evenings meet them at wine parties and oyster suppers. But he was careful not to permit himself again to lose his consciousness. Thus he succeeded in completely blinding his mother, to whom he increased his kind attentions—not hypocritically, for he loved her as she deserved to be loved, purely and tenderly. He deceived her only because he knew that she would esteem his course of life an exceedingly dangerous one, and he did not wish to give her unnecessary pain. As for himself, he had no fears on the subject.
               But he had great cause of fear. He had never calculated the power of habit, although, like others, he could utter and admit the adage, that "habit is second nature." It must not here be imagined, that Lennox was abating his professional zeal—that he was forming to himself a new and admitted end of life. Not so. He was still a legal student of great industry, and was rapidly rising into eminence, not by the overpowering and dazzling brilliancy of genius, but by the strong, clear, steady light of a well-balanced, well-furnished intellect. A good cause placed in his hands was sure of success, because his mind, acting upon truth, was like a burning glass, revealing in intenser light every minute particular. In a word, he was the pride and first promise of the Baltimore Bar.
               At the age of twenty-six, he became deeply attached to Florence R—, the daughter of a wealthy merchant. That affection was plainly reciprocated, although no declaration had yet been made on his part. After consultation with his mother, as to the young lady's true character and fitness for a wife—for in this matter he felt willing to confide in her judgment and close observation—he concluded to make proposals, and did so accordingly. He was referred by Florence to her father.
               "Mr. R—," he said, on waiting on that gentleman, with the genuine frankness of his character, "I wish to say to you, and without preliminaries, that I find myself deeply attached to your daughter Florence. Will you consent to our marriage?"
               Alfred had expected a prompt and cordial assent, but he was mistaken.
               "Allow me a week to consider your proposition, Mr. Lennox," was the grave reply. "My daughter is very dear to me, and I cannot part with her lightly."
               "All perfectly right," Lennox endeavored to say with a cheerful air, but his heart sunk within him. He perceived doubt in the tone of Mr. R—'s voice, and, he thought, disapprobation in the expression of his countenance. This he could not understand. His position in society was as good as that of Mr. R—, his character as fair, and his reputation at the Bar high, and still rapidly rising. It was all a strange mystery. He had supposed that his offer would have been met promptly and gladly. For a time his wounded pride resolved to give up all idea of Florence—to cast her aside. But this he could not do. The doubt thus unexpectedly thrown over his prospect of obtaining her, increased ten-fold his love, and made him ten times more desirous of possessing her.
               As soon as Alfred had left the house, Mr. R— sought his daughter's room, where she had retired with a trembling heart, to await the result of an interview, the meaning of which she well imagined.
               "Florence, my child," he said, seating himself by her side, and taking her trembling hand within his own, "since your mother's death, have you ever felt for a single moment that your father did not love you, and care for your happiness with a constant care?"
               "No, dear father," she replied, looking up into his face, while the tears came to her eyes. "Why do you ask?"
               Mr. R— felt that her hand trembled within his still more.
               "Be calm, my dear," he said. "I see that you are conscious of the subject upon which I am going to converse with you. In speaking of it to each other then, let us lay aside all reserve. Tell me, then, in the beginning, do you feel an affection for Mr. Lennox?"
               "I cannot deny it, father."
               "How long have you felt this sentiment, Florence?"
               "It has been growing upon me for some time," replied the blushing maiden; "but so insensibly, that I hardly dared to acknowledge it to myself, until he made to me a declaration of a like sentiment."
               "And what reply did you make him?" was Mr. R—'s quick interrogation.
               "I referred him to you, sir, of course."
               "Without acknowledging a kindred sentiment?"
               "Not by words, father."
               Mr. R— paused a few moments, and then resumed:
               "Suppose, my dear, that I were to object to your marriage with him, do you think that you could weigh, rationally, my reasons for so doing?"
               "I do not know, father," Florence said, leaning her head upon his arm, as she hid her face with her hands and gave way to an involuntary gush of tears.
               
               The heart of Mr. R— was moved. He knew the power of the sentiment that it was too evident had been formed in her mind. He knew the affectionate nature of his child, and was conscious, that if once her love were called out and placed unworthily, she would be robbed of happiness, it might be of hope. Under this feeling he hardly knew what to say, or how to act. After a long silence, as the agitation of Florence's mind began to subside, her father said—
               "You are aware, my dear, that, in many instances, we see only the appearances of truth around us. That it is often hard to judge of a man's real character. That—"
               "Dear father, speak out plainly," Florence said, looking up, earnestly, into her father's face. Surely you cannot mean that Mr. Lennox is not a man of good character?"
               "Perhaps that would be too strong a term, Florence. Still, to speak out plainly, I do not think that you would be happy as the wife of Alfred Lennox."
               "O father! why do you say so? I am sure Alfred is all that is excellent."
               "My dear child, I appreciate your feelings. But do you not think, that as a man with my years and experience, I ought to be able to judge of another man's true character much better than you?"
               "I certainly do, father."
               "And are you not willing to repose some confidence in my judgment?"
               "Have I not always confided in it?"
               "You have, Florence. And I trust are still willing to confide in it, especially in a matter of so much moment."
               "But you will not exact a blind confidence?"
               "No, my dear child, I will not. Nor did I intend to exact such a confidence. I am glad that your mind has made the discrimination."
               "Then, father, let me hear plainly why you think I would not be happy as the wife of Mr. Lennox?"
               "Because, I am afraid that he is forming bad habits. I do not like the company he keeps."
               "Do you know that he is forming bad habits?"
               "If I can form any judgment from appearances, I certainly think that he is. I have employed him to conduct for me a very important suit, and have, in consequence, frequent interviews with him. The more I see of him, the more I am inclined to think that his habits are not good."
               This did not seem to satisfy Florence.
               "Is it not possible, father," she said, after a few moments' silence, "that you may have a prejudice against him, that is not based upon any rational ground?"
               "No, my dear, I can safely say that I have not: for I know of no young man whom I would rather see your husband than he, were I satisfied in respect to his habits of life."
               "May not your suspicions be groundless?"
               "It is barely possible that they may. But, if we are to judge of a man's character by the company he keeps, Alfred Lennox is far from being above suspicion. You know L—?"
               "Yes."
               "They are often together and seem to be intimate."
               "Is it possible!" with a look of painful surprise.
               "It is too true. Charles S—, is also another of his associates, who is known to be dissipated, frolicsome, and to bear a very immoral character."
               "O father, I could not have believed it."
               "And worse than all, he is said to drink too hard for a young man of his age. You could not, certainly, run the fearful risk of becoming the wife of a drunkard!"
               "Not after having witnessed the heart-aching grief of my aunt Anna," was the reply of Florence.
               "I am glad you have alluded to your aunt," Mr. R— said. "She was warned by me as I am now warning you. She was my youngest sister, and the favorite of us all; but was unwilling to confide in my judgment in a matter where her affections were concerned. I knew the man who addressed her to be addicted to the vice of immoderate drinking, and I warned her not to marry him But she would not hear me but went so far as to tell him what I had alleged against him, thus making him my bitter enemy. I need not tell you the result in her case."
               "But do you think that Mr. Lennox is as far gone as was my uncle when aunt Anna married him?"
               "No, my dear, I do not. But what then?"
               "You know what I would say, father!"
               "I believe I do, Florence. But are you willing to run so great a risk?"
               "You know not, father, how deeply my happiness is involved"—
               Her voice trembled, and was so husky that she could not finish the sentence.
               "I know it, Florence, and I feel it; and for your sake I will make the most careful investigation of his character. When I have done so, will you confide in my judgment?"
               "I feel that it is right that I should, my dear father; and, be the result what it may, I promise that I will."
               "Spoken like my own dear child!" Mr. R— said drawing her to his bosom, and kissing her fervently.
               The maiden rested confidingly there for a few moments, and then rising, retired to her own chamber, where, sinking upon her bed, she burst into a flood of tears. It was a hard task, indeed, that she had set for her young and innocent heart.
               Meanwhile, Mr. Lennox left the house of Mr. R— with his mind in a tumult. A week! How could be endure such a suspense, especially where so strong a doubt had been cast over the issue. He retired to his office, and throwing himself into a chair, gave way to gloomy thoughts. As he sat thus, a friend came in, and observing the change in his appearance said—
               "In the name of wonder, Alfred, what has come over you?"
               "I've got the blues, if you know what they are?" he replied half laughing, as he endeavored to rally himself.
               "The blues? I rather think that I do know some thing about them. But you?—what has given you the blues?"
               "As to the cause, that is no matter. But do you know how to cure them?"
               "I know various modes of relief. But it takes time for the performance of a perfect cure."
               "So I should think—and even then the prescription may fail. How, then, is temporary relief to be obtained?"
               "I have never found anything so efficacious as a good Tom and Jerry.' "
               Lennox shook his head.
               "Even a strong brandy punch is salutary."
               "Then come and let us have one."
               His friend needed no second invitation, and so they proceeded to a tavern and called for a couple of brandy punches. These disposed of, and a little time given for the influence to become manifest, another was taken by each, and then another. Both then returned to the office of Lennox, where they chatted about various matters for half an hour or so, until the subject of the young lawyer's most important suit at last came up. When the wine is in, the wit is out, all know to be true. So it proved with Lennox. Three glasses were enough to make him indiscreet, and so he detailed to his friend the particulars of his love for Florence—how he had offered himself, and had been put off for a week—with sundry childish declarations of his undying love for the beautiful maiden.
               His friend laughed in his sleeve at his weakness, and advised him to keep his spirits up, by pouring spirits down. This advice he literally followed. When he came home to tea that evening Mrs. Lennox noted with exquisite pain, that he was more than half intoxicated, and acted very strangely.
               "Do not go out this evening, Alfred," she said, as he took up his hat after ten, and made a movement towards the door.
               "I can't stay in to-night, mother," he replied, turning away with a gesture of impatience, and hastily quitting the house.
               In so unkind a tone Alfred had never before spoken to his mother. She saw that he had been drinking, and was thus able to account for the change. But for a mother thus to excuse her son—her only son, and she a widow! Slowly, and with her head drooping on her bosom, did Mrs. Lennox steal away to her chamber. Here she sunk upon her knees, and lifted up her heart in prayer for strength to bear up under an affliction that it seemed would crush her to the earth. Then, as a degree of calmness stole over her spirit, she prayed for her erring child, beseeching with intense fervor that he might be checked in his course, ere it were too late—ere he brought down the gray hairs of his widowed mother in sorrow to the grave.
               Thus did she endeavor to rest upon the Strong for strength. But nature was active within her, and its claims could not be silenced. Though calmer, and still looking upwards in hope as she arose from her knees, yet her heart ached with an indescribable anguish.
               As for Alfred, as soon as he had left the house he repaired to Malcom's, where he met three or four of his young friends. They saw his condition, but had not the discretion to discourage him from any further indulgence. On the contrary, they joined him at once in a social glass. Then they drew up to a table and commenced a conversation on the current events of the day. More liquor was called for, and as they continued to drink, their spirits rose higher and higher, and their voices with their spirits—the loudest voice of all was that of Alfred Lennox. Thus they spent the whole evening, much to the annoyance of other and more quiet visitors.
               It was about ten o'clock that Lennox became conscious that an eye was upon him—the steady, searching eye of old Mr. R—, who was seated at a table near by, apparently engaged in reading a newspaper, but really all eye and all ear to the sayings and doings of himself and his wild companions. Drunk as he was, he could not misunderstand the meaning of the look which Mr. R— cast upon him as their eyes met. Instantly
                     Alfred and his Friends.
                  
                   rising, he passed up to where the old man was sitting, and, bending down to his ear, said in an earnest whisper,
               "Do not judge altogether from appearances, Mr. R—. Young blood is a little warm sometimes."
               "If we are not to judge from appearances, Mr. Lennox, bow are we to arrive at any just conclusions?" was the old man's cold reply, while his countenance assumed a sterner aspect.
               For a moment or two Lennox stood silent, and in painful irresolution; then turning away, he sought the door, and left thus abruptly the house and his companions.
               "Fool! fool!" he ejaculated bitterly, as he strode along the streets, more than half sobered by the incident that had just occurred.
               Homeward he turned his steps, and entered, at an early hour for him, much to the relief of one waiting and troubled heart. But she knew not the wild agitation of his bosom, nor dreamed in her quiet sleep that her son was tossing, nearly all the night, upon a waking pillow.
               In the morning, when he came down to breakfast, his pale and anxious countenance instantly attracted the eye of his mother.
               "Are you not well, Alfred?" she asked, with anxious solicitude.
               "Not very well," he replied, evasively.
               "Is there nothing that I can do for you, Alfred?"
               "No, mother, I have a difficult case on hand, which troubles my mind exceedingly. It has kept me awake nearly all night, which will account to you for my appearance. Of course you cannot abate that cause."
               "What suit is it, Alfred?"
               "The suit of old Mr. R—. It will be reached on the docket to-morrow."
               "But why need you be so troubled about that?"
               "There is more than one reason why I should feel uneasiness. The case is one of great difficulty, and I am more than half convinced that justice is not on the side of my client. With a bad cause I am weak. My conscience troubles me when I feel that I am in the position of an oppressor of the innocent."
               
               "Better lose such a cause than gain it, then, Alfred."
               "If I were fully satisfied that Mr. R—'s claim was unjust, and there were no other consideration in the way, I should not feel as I do, in the prospect of losing it But you know that I have offered for the hand of his daughter."
               "True, Alfred, and you have never spoken to me of the result of that offer."
               "He has put me off for a week, and, in the mean time, this suit comes on. I have a presentiment, that, upon the result of this suit, will depend the other."
               "I do not think so," Mrs. Lennox replied, "I have known Mr. R— for many years, and am satisfied that he cannot act in so important a matter as the marriage of Florence upon such grounds. He loves her too much."
               "I wish I could think so, mother; but I cannot," was the young man's desponding reply. The reader is aware that he had another cause of fear, to which he dared not allude.
               At eleven o'clock he was to have a professional interview with Mr. R—. In looking forward to it, he felt nervous and agitated. In leaving his home, it was with a tacit resolution that he would drink nothing until after his interview with his client. But his mind was so unsettled, and his nerves so unstrung, that he felt compelled to fortify himself with a strong glass of brandy. This had the desired effect, and he was enabled to meet Mr. R— with composure, and to enter on the business in hand with some degree of coolness and rationality. But the mind of Mr. R— being keenly observant, now that he had a double reason for close scrutiny, he readily detected the effect of the single strong potation that the young lawyer had taken, in an elevation of the mind above its natural calm, healthy tone. When the interview closed, he was more than ever satisfied that the young man stood in a position of great danger, and less willing than ever that his daughter should risk her hopes and happiness by a union with him.
               On the next morning, the case, involving many thousands sands of dollars, came up. It was opened by Lennox, in his usual calm and comprehensive manner. He brought out the different points of dispute in a clear and apparent light, displaying, as he did so, his legal knowledge and professional tact in beautiful style. Mr. R— was charmed with the effort made by the young man, and, at the same time, deeply pained that one formed as he was for esteem and usefulness should be treading a path of so much doubt and danger. The opponent of Lennox was a particular friend, or so Lennox esteemed him—a calm, cool, observant man, who was deeply read in human nature. None could sooner see a weak point in an adversary, and none knew better how to take advantage of it, than he. Nor was he at all scrupulous as to the mode of gaining this advantage. His name was Balford.
               At the close of the morning session the advantage was clearly on the side of Lennox, who had managed the case with even more than his usual talent and skill. This Balford plainly saw. Running his arm within that of Lennox, as the latter emerged from the court room, he said, in a tone of affected concern,
               "Really, Lennox, I am afraid that you are not going to leave me a single stone to stand upon."
               "I certainly shall not, if in my power to knock them from under your feet," was the half exulting reply.
               "All fair of course. You are not going home to dine, I presume?" Balford added, after a brief pause.
               "Why not?"
               "I never burden my stomach when I have an important cause to argue after dinner. Do you?"
               "I always dine, as usual."
               "There you are in error," Balford said. "I merely take a glass of wine or two, and a cracker, thus leaving my body free from the labor of nutrition, which draws off too much energy from the brain, while the slight portion of food and stimulating drink that I take, keeps me up, and enables me to think with even more than ordinary clearness."
               "That is all new to me—but it seems rational," Lennox nox replied. "But are you not exhausted when night comes?"
               "Of course, to some degree. But then who would not be willing to bear a little physical exhaustion, to obtain a legal triumph?"
               "Very true. And I believe I will follow your example," the young man said.
               "Then come with me," urged the tempter. "I have some delightful wine, with crackers and cheese, at my office."
               Lennox did not pause for a second invitation. It was not long before they were joined by two or three well-known friends, all lovers of good wine, who seemed to come "understandingly." In good company, Lennox always forgot himself. The consequence was, that after the passage of two hours, he was just in the condition that his friend Balford always desired to have an opponent in an important case. At four o'clock the court reassembled, and Lennox took the floor. During the morning, there had been the examination of witnesses, with a lucid summing up of the evidence given. Now the grand effort was to come off in which the true points of issue were to be brought out and exhibited in such a light as to enable the court to give an equitable decision.
               The young lawyer had not uttered ten words, before Mr. R—, who was observing him closely, saw, with alarm and sincere grief, that he was not in the calm, sane state that he had been in during the morning—that he was, in fact, half intoxicated. For a few minutes he argued with himself the propriety of asking a postponement of the case, on the ground of the present incapacity of his counsel. But he hesitated to do so, and, for a while, kept his mind in a negative position in regard to the matter. As Lennox went on, however, it became so plain that, instead of bringing out into apparent light the true merits of his case, he was confusing it, and making success more and more doubtful at every step of his progress. Mr. R— at last went up to the Bench, and whispered to one of the judges his fears, on account of the condition of Lennox, and begged to have the case postponed. The reasonableness of the request was so apparent, that the judges, after a moment's consultation, asked Lennox to take his seat for a moment. One of them then stated that, at the request of a party concerned, the case was postponed until the next morning at ten o'clock, at which time he hoped counsel would come "properly prepared to enter upon the discussion of the question under consideration."
               There was not one present, Lennox among the rest, who did not fully understand the meaning of this unexpected interruption. As for himself, he had already become conscious that he was unfit to conduct the case. He glided from the court-room without pausing to speak to any one, and hurrying home, retired to his chamber overwhelmed with pain and mortification. On the next day, he went to the court-house fully prepared to act his part. He was never more sober and rational in his life. Fully convinced of the base part that had been acted towards him by the antagonist counsel, his mind rose into double activity under the determination to retrieve himself, and disappoint his unmanly opponent. The consequence was, that he acquitted himself with a power and brilliancy rarely equalled at that Bar, and so fully sustained his cause, even though his mind had at first been oppressed under a sense that there was not equity on his side, that, when the court reassembled in the afternoon, a unanimous decision was rendered in favor of his client.
               "You certainly sustained yourself handsomely, Mr. Lennox," said Mr. R—, coming up to him and taking his hand, after the decision had been given. "But, my dear sir, remember that it takes many successful efforts to redeem one failure such as you made yesterday."
               "I am aware of that, Mr. R—," Lennox replied. "But it is only just to myself that I should state that I was tricked into the condition I was then in, by Balford."
               
               "How?"
               "He invited me to his office after the morning session, and with an apparent show of kindness advised me not to go home to my dinner, as a full meal would oppress and confuse my mind, but to take a cracker and a glass of wine with him. I was deceived by this pretended interest, and thrown at once into a pleasant company, which I have no doubt was purposely invited to his office. The consequence was, that I drank too much wine on an empty stomach."
               "A base act truly Mr. Lennox! But remember, that where there is in us no ground for temptation, we cannot be successfully assailed by even the most subtle tempter."
               This remark was felt by Lennox, and slightly offended him. He did not reply, and Mr. R— bade him good-day and left him. The remembrance of what had occurred at Malcom's oyster-house, and the failure, from intoxication, on the previous day, both occurring while his suit for the hand of Florence was pending, was enough to keep him sober, at least until the end of the time specified by old Mr. R— when an answer to his application was to be given. For her sake he would most cheerfully have renounced the wild pleasures of convivial companionship. He called himself a fool and a madman, for the weakness he had already displayed, tending, he feared, utterly to destroy his hope of ever gaining over the affectionate regard of the old man for his darling and only child. At last the lingering term expired, and with a trembling heart he repaired to the residence of Mr. R— to hear the word that he felt was to make or mar him for life.
               "I have much to fear—fool that I have been!" he murmured to himself, as be paused at the door of her who was truly beloved by him with a most ardent and deep affection.
               The servant showed him into the parlor, where sat old Mr. R—, who arose on his entrance, and received him with much kindness.
               "You know for what I have come, Mr. R—," Lennox said, as soon as he was seated. "Do not, then, keep me in suspense—I cannot bear it. Say, then, do you favor my suit?"
               "It grieves me, my young friend, to say that I do not," Mr. R— replied, still kindly, and indeed in a tone of affection.
               "May I ask the reason, sir?" Alfred said, with forced calmness.
               "You have certainly a right to know the reason, Mr Lennox; and, therefore, I do not feel at liberty to withhold it, much as it may pain me to utter the truth. For your talents I have great respect—nay, admiration. The general moral tone of your feelings I like. Your father was one of my earliest and firmest friends. But your habits, sir! I dare not trust a man of your habits with my child!"
               Alfred did not for a time attempt to reply. He was conscious that Mr. R— had good reasons for judging thus of him, although he felt that the judgment was a harsh one, and the danger apprehended altogether out of the question. His first impulse under the promptings of wounded pride was to leave the house without another word, and thus abandon all hope of ever calling the hand of Florence his own. But his heart yearned towards her with too intense an affection thus to give her up, and without another effort.
               "I admit, Mr. R—," he at length said with forced calmness, "that from one or two things which have recently fallen under your observation, you are authorised to judge of me with a rigorous judgment. But you know under what circumstances at least one of those aberrations occurred."
               "I do, Mr. Lennox. But that only makes me the more fearful. Had there not been on your part a habit, already acquired, of drinking to excess, Mr. Balford would never have thought of tempting you. The success of his effort indicates the dangerous strength of that habit."
               "But surely, Mr. R—," the young man urged, "you do not intend cutting me off at once from hope?"
               "I do, Mr. Lennox," was the decided answer. "Both myself and Florence have calmly weighed the subject, and our decided and positive conclusion is, not to accept your offer."
               The young man rose slowly from his seat, and bowing low and silently, left the house, his mind in a fever of excitement such as he had never known. To drown this, he went to a tavern and drank to intoxication. It was a whole week after, before he again drew a sober breath. What his mother suffered during that time, it would be vain to attempt to describe. But the intensity of her mental anguish rose almost to delirium, when news was brought to her, under the hope that her influence over her son would check his mad resolution, that he had challenged to mortal combat the lawyer against whom he had recently carried the important case to which we have just alluded.
               The duel was to take place at Bladensburg, on the day succeeding the night when the terrible news was communicated to her. Her son was out, and did not return until nearly twelve o'clock. Then he was half intoxicated, and she felt that remonstrance would be vain. All night long did she pace the floor of her chamber, the wild anguish of her spirit rendering her insensible to physical exhaustion. Early in the morning her son was to leave on his fatal errand, and she must, if there were power in a mother's deep affection over her child, prevent him from executing his revengeful purpose. At day-dawn she descended to the parlor to await his appearance. She had been there only for a short time, when he came stealthily down the stairs.
               "Mother!" he ejaculated in surprise, as he entered the parlor.
               "Alfred, you must not go," she said firmly, while she looked him steadily in the face.
               "Go where, mother?"
               "Do not attempt to deceive me, Alfred," she replied, in the same calm voice. "I know all about your destination this morning. But your mother says that you must not go—and surely you will not disobey her injunction!'
               "You know not what you say, mother," the young man responded, bitterly.
               "You will not go, surely, Alfred," she said, her tone and manner changing, "now that you are aware that I know your errand. Do you think that I could live through the suspense of this day?"
               "I could curse the miserable wretch who told this tale," the young man uttered between his teeth, as he commenced pacing the room backwards and forwards.
               "Say you will not go," urged his mother.
               "I cannot say that, for I must go," was the gloomy reply.
               "O, say not so! Say not so, Alfred! Let there be no blood upon your hands. Let me not be robbed of my all in this world!"
               "Mother, you know not what you say," urged the young man. "I have been deeply and fatally disgraced and injured. Life has been rendered a burden to me by that man—and I will be revenged, or die!"
               "O, talk not so wildly, Alfred! Is there no one in the whole world to be considered but yourself? Is all regard and affection gone for your mother, who looks up to you, and reclines upon you as the only prop to sustain her? Think of these trembling limbs, this weakened body, fast declining, and forbear. Think of your mother's wounded and bruised spirit, and pause ere your rash step be taken."
               "Mother! mother! you will drive me mad!" the young man suddenly exclaimed, striking his hand upon his forehead.
               "Let me urge you, by all the tenderest and dearest considerations, to forbear," continued Mrs. Lennox, beseechingly.
               "Mother, you must not speak to me thus!" he said, interrupting her, in an excited tone. "You are only drugging the cup, of which I must drink, with intenser bitterness. I cannot pause—I cannot look back. My honor is at stake—and honor to me is dearer than life."
               And so saying, he turned away and made a movement towards the door.
               
               "Alfred you must not go!" Mrs. Lennox exclaimed, springing to his side, and grasping his arm tightly. "You must not—you shall not go!"
               "Mother, you know not what you are doing," he said, gently disengaging himself. Then leading her back, he seated her upon the sofa, and turning, glided away, and was out of the house before she had time to recover herself.
               She did not attempt to follow, for she felt that to do so would be vain. All through the awful day no one came near her. Alone she awaited the fearful result, that would bring her, perhaps, the lifeless body of her beloved son—or return him with his hand stained by the blood of his fellow. Slowly did the hours creep by, each marking some indelible line of pain upon her over-burdened heart. As the day began to decline, a stupor came over her spirit. Nature seemed to be exhausted. But towards evening, when it was time for Alfred to return, if he were ever to return alive, her anxiety arose to its highest pitch of intensity. Like a restless spirit, she wandered from room to room, ever and anon going to the door and looking up the street with an earnest gaze.
               Moment after moment, minute after minute, and hour after hour continued to glide away, until the dim twilight began to fall around, and still he came not. Weak and faint with fear, anxiety and suspense, she at last sank upon a chair. She had remained there for about five minutes, when the hall door was suddenly thrown open, and quick feet hurried along the passage. She could not rise, nor speak, nor make a sound. But her suspense was brief. Alfred rushed in, and sinking down by her side, burst into tears.
               "My son—my son!" she could only murmur, when overtried nature gave way, and she became insensible.
               The duel had resulted in the death of Balford, who was shot down at the first fire, and died before he could be taken from the ground. Overwhelmed with a terrible remorse, Lennox returned home, tempted strongly to the commission of suicide. The fainting condition of his mother aroused him in some degree, and called out his thoughts from himself in care for another. It was more than an hour before Mrs. Lennox was restored to consciousness under the careful attentions of the family physician. Then she was so feeble that she was forbidden to hold any intercourse with her son, who retired to his chamber, a prey to the most gloomy reflections. For an hour he paced the room to and fro, and at length, as the agony of his mind grew more intense, he went forth into the open air, and wandered for a long time about the streets. When he returned home, his mind and body were both stupified. He had drank deeply for the purpose of relief.
               We will not attempt to portray his feelings, nor those of his mother when they met on the next morning, and she became conscious that the hands of her son were imbued with the blood of his fellow-man. She saw the anguish of his spirit, and therefore spoke no word of censure—but she could not utter one of comfort. Although they went through the form of sitting down to the morning meal, yet no food passed the lips of either; nor was any subject of conversation introduced. Silently and oppressed in spirit, they rose, at length, from the table, like mere automata, she passing up to her chamber, and he from the house, neither under the direction of any specific end. His steps, however, were soon bent towards a drinking-house. He felt that he must seek relief in the stupefaction of his senses; and with this object in view, he drank deeply By one o'clock he was brought home drunk and insensible! During many weeks from that day, he was constantly under the benumbing influence of liquor, which finally ended in a horrible, half-conscious delirium.
               From this, under judicious medical treatment, he at length awakened. But the energy of his character was gone; and, for a time, his intellect seemed impaired. This was so apparent, that few thought of intrusting him with any case of much importance, and he, of course, soon sunk from the position he had acquired at the bar, without making a single effort to regain it. Gradually he fell into habits of idleness, and a regular course of dissipation. He was rarely employed in anything above an assault and battery or a magistrate's case, and these yielded him but a slender income, every cent of which he squandered in drinking and frolicing.
               In this course of life he had indulged for some two years, gradually sinking lower and lower, when, as he had become active in politics, and was a fine speaker, he was nominated as a candidate for the legislature. It needed but this to complete his ruin, although many of his friends hoped that its effect upon him would be salutary Elections then, as they have been too often since, mortifying as the admission may be, were carried by drinking. An electioneering campaign resembled, in some respect, the Bacchanalian orgies of old, rather than a general rational movement of the people, preparatory to an expression of their honest sentiments at the polls.
               Into this whirlpool of excitement, Alfred Lennox entered with a keen zest. It enabled him, in some degree, to rise above the paralysing influence of two most active causes of depression and unhappiness—the loss of Florence R—, whom he had truly and tenderly loved, and the death of Balford, which rested heavily upon his conscience. Four months of active service in this kind of life, during all of which time he was under strong excitement, ended in a defeat. Of course, he sunk at once into a condition of almost hopeless dissipation. For six weeks after the election, he came home every night so intoxicated as hardly to be able to find his way to bed.
               Such a course of life, united with petty gambling, where there was little or no income of his own to sustain it, necessarily drew upon the funds still under his control, as executor of his father's estate, which had already been greatly reduced, as stated, by the failure of a joint-stock company, in which large investments had been made. In examining into this account one day, when his mind was less under the influence of artificial excitement than usual, he was alarmed to discover that there remained but about fifteen thousand dollars of his father's handsome property, and that there was less than one hundred dollars in bank. The house in which they lived was valued at eight thousand dollars—thus leaving property from which an income could be derived of only seven thousand dollars, which netted six hundred dollars per annum.
               Startled at this discovery, and conscious that it could not long be concealed from his mother, unless he changed his habits, and made a strong effort to increase, through his profession, the annual income, he struggled for some weeks in the effort to reform. This did not become fully apparent to his now heart-broken mother, who was sadly altered, and rapidly sinking in health and spirits, until the passage of two or three days. She had noticed that he did not go out as usual on one or two evenings, but, as he retired to his room, and thus avoided her, she hoped little from the change. On the third evening, she could not but notice that there was a great difference in his appearance and manner towards her. He was unusually kind, and seemed anxious to do something to chase from her brow the cloud of sorrow that ever rested there.
               "Shall I read something to you, mother?" he said, laying his hand upon a book.
               "Alfred?" And she looked him steadily in the face, while her own countenance changed rapidly in its expression.
               "I know what you would say, mother," he replied after a pause, "and I will anticipate your question. I trust that I have at last awakened from a wild, delirious dream. Three days ago I made a vow that I would stop short in the mad career I have been running. And I have stopped. Since then I have been sober and rational, and in every way a far happier man. And from this day forth, I am resolved to remain sober and rational."
               Ere he had finished speaking, Mrs. Lennox had risen from her chair and sprung to his side; and now her arms were around him, and her tears were falling fast upon his bowed head.
               "The Lord help you to keep that resolution, my son!" she at length said in a low and solemn tone, lifting her eyes and hands upwards.
               A few moments of breathless silence followed, during which both hearts were lifted to Heaven in deep aspirations for aid above mere human strength to sustain the erring ing one in the hour of temptation. Then the mother sunk exhausted on a chair, feeling as weak and helpless almost as an infant. The sudden and strong reaction of a newly awakened hope, was too powerful for her feeble body, weakened by age and heart-searching trouble.
               "O, Alfred," she said, after she had recovered, in some degree, the tone of her mind, "you can never know how much I have suffered in the last few years. I wonder, sometimes, how I have lived through it."
               "Do not allude to that, mother," he replied, while an expression of pain passed over his face. "I dare not think of these things—when I do it seems as if I would be driven to desperation. Wretch! miserable, heartless wretch that I have been!"
               The strong agony pictured in the face of her son, alarmed Mrs. Lennox, and she soothed him as best she could.
               "Read to me, Alfred," she at length said. "You know how much I love to have you read to me."
               The young man opened a volume and read for more than an hour, and then, after some pleasant conversation on the subject of the book, both retired for the night, with happier hearts than had beaten in their bosoms for many and many a day.
               Days and weeks now passed away to Mrs. Lennox like sweet passages in a dream. Her step became more buoyant, her eye brightened, and her face was fast recovering the pleasing tone of expression it had worn for years. As for Alfred, he was far happier, though there yet remained two active sources of pain, that seemed like evil genii ever dragging his spirits down, and tempting him to ruin. But he struggled manfully to retain the victory he had won.
               One day, about three months after the period when this reformation began, an important suit was placed in his hands with the promise of a very handsome fee if it should prove successful. A careful examination of its bearing and merits convinced him that if rightly managed, the suit could be gained. Greatly encouraged, and strengthened in his determination to abide by his resolutions of reform, he turned his steps homeward, an hour or two before nightfall. He was musing upon the case as he passed along Calvert street in the neighborhood of the monument, when he lifted his eyes to the face of a young lady who was passing at the time. Both started, paused an instant, turned pale, and then hurried by. All passed in a moment, but to each it was a moment of agony, for a painful wound, that time could not heal, was probed in each heart to the quick. Florence R— was loved still; fondly, but hopelessly loved.
               Scarcely conscious of any thing around him, Lennox moved on mechanically until he reached his home. There was a change in his appearance that instantly attracted his mother's eye, and made her heart bound with a sudden pulsation, and then sink and tremble in her bosom. His manner, too, was altered—and he was strangely silent. But it was evident that he had not been drinking. She did not venture to question him in regard to this change, and he made no allusion to it. When tea was over, he retired at once to his chamber, and remained there during the evening.
               While seated there alone, struggling, but in vain, to banish from his mind the image of Florence, he was tempted strongly to seek oblivion in intoxication. Had there been wine or brandy within his reach, the temptation would have been too strong for him. On the next morning, the breakfast hour passed in the same oppressive silence and reserve that had marked the evening meal. As soon as it was over, Alfred went out. In going to his office he had to pass the door of a drinking-house hitherto much frequented. As he neared it, the thought of benumbing the acuteness of his mental suffering by a deep potation, glanced through his mind.
               "I might as well do it at first as last," he said to himself, "for to that it must come in the end."
               As he said this, he paused opposite the tavern door, and held a brief agitating debate. It ended in his gliding into the house, and calling at the bar for brandy. The glass, half filled with the strong intoxicating draught, was at his lips, when the image of his aged mother came up before his mind with startling distinctness, and he seemed to hear her voice uttering in tones of agony.
               "Forbear!"
               Slowly he returned the glass, its contents untouched to the counter, and turning away, passed out from the scene of temptation. Then he hurried on to his office and sat down to investigate the case he had in hand. But the letters of the document he attempted to examine would fade from his vision, and before the eyes of his mind would form distinctly, the pale, agitated countenance, and eyes eloquent with unextinguished affection that he had met on the day before, for the first time in long years of agony and degradation.
               "And mine is not the only blasted heart! Mine are not the only seared affections!" he at length murmured, rising from his chair, and pacing the narrow precincts of his office to and fro. "She, too, has continued to love hopelessly—and hopelessly must she love on to the end—as hopelessly as he who has so madly crushed her heart and his own!"
               "I can bear this no longer!" he at length ejaculated, pausing, after having continued to pace the floor of his office for half an hour. Then, seeming to take a sudden resolution, he passed out of his office with a hurried step, and in a few minutes was standing at Malcom's bar, draining to the last drop a strong glass of brandy and water.
               With painful forebodings did Mrs. Lennox await the return of her son at dinner time. One glance at his face was enough to tell the sad tale that he had again been drinking. Few words passed between them during the meal. Lennox did not wish to converse, and his mother's heart was too full to speak. At night he was still more under the influence of liquor, and went immediately out after tea. It was twelve o'clock when he returned, and then he went stumbling up to bed, startling the whole house with his noise.
               The subsidence of this determined struggle against the debasing vice to which he had become enslaved, left him weaker in resolution than ever. He could now oppose only a temporary desire to be freed from his evil habit, without a single hope of ever being able to rise above it. Of course, under such a state of feelings, he went downwards more rapidly.
               A few months brought the affairs of his executorship into such a condition that he feared they could no longer be concealed from his mother. The last dollar had been drawn from bank, and no more rents would be due for two months.
               "Alfred, I wish you would bring me home fifty dollars," she said to him one morning, as he was about leaving the house, after breakfast.
               He promised to do so, and then immediately went out. He had ten dollars in his pocket, all the money he possessed in the world. His mother supposed that there were, as there should have been, several thousands in bank. Although he was dissipated, she could not suspect him of squandering her money, for her confidence in his integrity of character was unwavering. The vice of drunkenness was a weakness—a blind infatuation. But to waste the substance of his widowed mother was an act in her estimation so far beyond his power to commit, that the bare suspicion of such a thing never crossed her mind. Of this he felt conscious, and it caused him to feel pangs of remorse still more acute.
               To his office he first repaired, where he paced the floor for some time, his mind in a state of violent agitation.
               "She must not—she shall not know it!" he at length said, pausing and striking down his clenched hand into the vacant air, with the energy of desperation. "That pang I will at least spare her."
               He seemed in that last expression to have confirmed himself in the determination to perform some act at which his mind revolted, for his whole manner changed, and he became calm and apparently resolved. After hastily arranging some papers, he left the office, and proceeded to a drinking-house, and called for brandy, his favorite drink. A single glass was taken, then another, and another, at intervals of five or ten minutes. As these began gan to take effect, his whole appearance underwent a change. The despondency of mind and lassitude of body under which he had been laboring gave way to a degree of buoyant confidence, that flowed out into the expression of his face and bearing of his body.
               "I can do it, and I will do it," he said, half aloud, as he stepped confidently into the street again.
               He now took his way down Calvert street until he came to Lovely Lane, through that to South street, then down, and along Second street to —, into which he turned, first glancing quickly up and down to see if observed by any person to whom he was known. Along this Avenue he proceeded some one or two hundred yards, and then turned into a narrow alley leading into a large building, the rear of which presented few or no indications of its being inhabited. He entered this and ran hurriedly up the stairs, as if still fearful of observation. He had evidently been there before, for the way was familiar to him. The termination of a long, unfurnished, dirty passage, brought him to a door, which he opened, and then entered a richly furnished apartment, spread with tables, at several of which sat groups of individuals absorbed in play. After wandering through this room, glancing first at one party and then at another, he seemed to make a selection of that to which he preferred attaching himself, and at once drew up to the table where the individuals composing it were seated.
               The stakes on this table were small, and therefore he had chosen it. As soon as the game then playing was out, the cards were shuffled, and he was invited to take a hand. The stake was one dollar. He laid his dollar upon the table, played, and won—played again, and won, and so continued until he had won fifty dollars. Elated at this success, he readily agreed to stake the whole sum.—This time he lost.
               The presiding genius of the table was a short, dark man, with large whiskers, and a pair of keen restless eyes. At every opportunity that offered for scrutinizing, unobserved, the face of Lennox, he had not failed most carefully fully to read the expression of his countenance. He knew him well, and also his downward course for the last few years. He also knew that he was executor for his father's estate, and all about the resources of that estate. When the young man lost his fifty dollars, he was perfectly satisfied that it was all that he had.
               "Shall I make you an advance?" he said with a bland smile, holding several bank notes of various amounts, half presented, in his hand.
               "I will take a hundred dollars, if you please," Lennox replied "I have no more with me to-day."
               As he said this, he drew a small slip of paper towards him, and taking up a pen, wrote an obligation on demand for the sum named, and handed it over to the gambler.
               From that time the run of luck was fluctuating for the course of an hour, when the last dollar of the advanced sum passed from Lennox, and he was again without a stake.
               "You don't play so well as you did at first," the gambler remarked. "You must not permit yourself to get excited. This kind of business requires a cool head, you know. Shall I be permitted to favor you again,' holding out temptingly a number of bank notes.
               "If you please," Lennox said.
               "You had better take a couple of hundred, had you not?"
               "Yes—a couple of hundred."
               And another written obligation was passed. The game now became intensely interesting to Lennox, and, as he grew more and more excited, the gambler and his friends grew calmer and cooler. Less than an hour sufficed to strip the young man of every cent of the two hundred dollars with which he had fondly hoped to retrieve himself.
               "Let me have some more," he said in a low, husky but determined whisper, as his last stake vanished. "I play wretchedly—but I must and will do better."
               "It is because that you are excited, that the run of luck is against you," his whiskered friend said, smiling gently, as he promptly acceded to the new demand for money. "Only keep cool, and you are the best player in the city; I have never met your equal."
               Thus flattered and incited to new efforts, Lennox again took up the cards, and entered into the game with an intenser interest. This time chance seemed to favor him. He won game after game, to the apparent mortification and alarm of his antagonist players, until he had a pile of money by his side amounting to nearly a thousand dollars. An inward voice whispered him to stop, and retreat from the deluding sphere of the company he was in—and he had half resolved to do so, an operation of mind that was intuitively perceived by at least one present, when he was tempted to risk the whole in a single grand effort. The very question of losing or winning, with its consequences, when all was at stake, was of itself enough to unbalance his mind and prevent his success, had he not, as was the case, an antagonist of double his skill and experience, and one who would not hesitate to ensure success by foul means if fair ones should not prove sufficient for his purpose.
               Every card now played was selected by Lennox after the most deliberate reflection and study of the progress and position of the game. For a time success seemed certain—every card exhibited the advantage as gaining on his side. This, of course, unsettled his nerves, causing his heart to leap in disturbed and bounding pulsations, which was seen in his trembling hand and agitated fingering of the cards. The game was now rapidly approaching to a close. A few more cards remained to be played, upon which hung the issue. Already had the young man begun to handle, in anticipation, the rich results of this, the last game he intended to play, when a card, which he had fully persuaded himself could not be in the hand of his opponent, was thrown upon the table, changing the entire fate of the game, and carrying it against him inevitably.
               The card or two that remained in his hand were instantly dashed upon the table, from which he arose and commenced hurriedly pacing the room backwards and forwards, every muscle in his face painfully contracted, and its whole expression almost the picture of despair. As he passed near the tables of others engaged in play, an eye would occasionally be turned towards him, half carelessly, or a lip would curl with a selfish smile of malignant triumph or scorn. As for the individual who had tempted him on deeper and deeper, until he had involved him in a debt of more than five hundred dollars, and cruelly deluded him with the hope of gain, until he was about placing the cup to his lips, when he dashed it suddenly to the earth, he coolly appropriated the stakes, smiling inwardly as he did so, and occasionally glancing towards his victim. He knew the exact state of mind of one under such circumstances, as well as does a physician the condition of his patient by the state of his pulse. The first effervescence of excitement he allowed to pass off, and then approaching him, said, in a soothing tone:
               "Do not act so, my dear sir! Remember where you are, and show yourself to be a man. To one so uniformly successful as you, a single reverse should not so utterly dishearten. 'Try again,' is the motto of the ultimately successful in all enterprises—and it is emphatically true to all who engage in this hazardous profession. Since yesterday I have lost twenty thousand dollars—but I never get excited. 'Keep cool,' is my rule of life. Four young men have won from me, during the week, handsome little capitals on which to commence business. I cannot but be pleased at their success, even though I am the loser. But I will make it up again out of some rich young spend-thrifts, who are anxious to squander the wealth into the possession of which they have fallen so easily. You have only lost about five hundred dollars since you came in, and surely that will not utterly discourage you. Why, a young man sat down to that table last night, and lost three thousand dollars, when luck turned in his favor, and he left here with nearly five thousand dollars in his pocket. Suppose he had given up when the chances were against him, at two thousand five hundred dollars, what would have been the result? Why ruin, for he was not worth over a thousand dollars in the world."
               
               Thus the tempter urged, and at last induced Lennox to accept of another advance of five hundred dollars. In thus continuing to make advances, he knew perfectly the nature of his risk. He was aware that his victim possessed the entire control of his mother's property, no part of which came under the denomination of real estate, and which could, therefore, be transferred without her knowledge. He likewise perfectly understood his character, and was satisfied that he would meet every obligation so long as he had in his hands the means of doing so, even to the trespassing on the rights of another, where he could rest upon the hope of restoring the money he used by some successful turn of fortune. Thus he coolly calculated the risks he run in compassing from selfish ends, the ruin of Lennox.
               For a time the young man was permitted again to win, and thus enticed onward and onward, into deeper and more inextricable difficulties, ending in the clear loss of two thousand dollars, for which sum he found himself indebted, on demand, to the individual against whose skill and trickery he had madly opposed his honest inexperience.
               At this stage of his infatuation, finding himself losing all self-command, and therefore conscious that he was playing at a great disadvantage, he resolved to risk no more. He had drank nothing for several hours, and the strong potation of the morning had lost its stimulating influence. Mental excitement was now keeping him up, but with this kind of excitement, more of rational perceptions mingled, than with the artificial excitement of liquor. This enabled him to do at least one sensible act, and that was to reserve fifty dollars, the sum which he had at first proposed to himself to win.
               It was nearly two o'clock when he stole out through the obscure back entrance of the establishment into which he had introduced himself so cautiously. Once in the street, he turned neither to the right nor to the left, not even enticed by the drinking-houses that would, at another time, have wooed him irresistibly to self-indulgence. Dinner was on the table when he arrived at home, and he sat down with his mother in silence. Her eye, that ever sought his face with an inquiring look, noted that he was pale, and that there was upon his countenance an expression of great anxiety and pain of mind. Few words passed between the mother and son during their brief meal. At its close, the latter handed her a fifty dollar note, and retired to his chamber, his mind in a tumult of troubled thoughts and disturbing anxieties.
               An hour after he went out, and repaired to his office. He had been seated there for only a brief period, when the gambler with whom he had contended with such odds in the morning entered.
               The brow of Lennox lowered involuntarily, at the same time that he made an effort to put on an unconcerned smile.
               "How do you do now, Mr. Lennox?" the visitor said, as he seated himself with a business air.
               "I have seen the time when I felt better," was the equivocal reply.
               "You despond too easily, Mr. Lennox. Before I became at last successful in the profession, I lost a pretty little fortune. You lose a little now, but you gain a skill that will amply repay you, in the end, every sacrifice you now make."
               "Don't mistake me, if you please," the young lawyer answered, half indignantly. "I have no desire to identify myself with gentlemen of your profession."
               "O, as to that, every man must follow his own taste," the gambler replied, tossing his head contemptuously. "But it struck me that you were not altogether loth to win this morning."
               "That was the result of a painful necessity, sir," Lennox said, somewhat sternly; "not of a fixed principle I hold it a moral wrong to gamble! It is taking the money of another, without rendering him a just equivalent."
               "And yet you seemed wonderfully elated to-day when you had a thousand dollars by your side, of winnings, not earnings," the gambler said, with a malicious grin.
               "No doubt I did—and I had reason for it. But I will not attempt to justify even in myself an act that I condemn as wrong in another. I was wrong in going to your infernal den, and wrong to feel delight in winning your money. But let us waive all that. Your business now is I presume, to claim the cancelling of the debt I madly suffered myself to incur."
               "You anticipate me in declaring the reason of my visit," the gambler replied. "I come for the money you have acknowledged, under your hand, to be justly due me."
               "You will have to wait a few weeks, until I can realise on the sale of a house," Lennox said. "I have no ready money."
               "Your notes are on demand."
               "I know that, sir, as well as you do; and you can demand their payment a dozen times a day, for the next three weeks, if you choose—but, my word for it, the money will not be forthcoming before the end of that time, if, indeed, the whole of it then," Lennox replied, indignantly.
               The gambler ground his teeth together, and muttered a half audible threat—but the eye of Lennox fell not, nor quailed a moment beneath his fixed and angry glance.
               "You are a—"
               "Beware!" ejaculated the lawyer suddenly, interrupting the sentence. "A man in my position cannot bear much. You may provoke me beyond endurance."
               There was that in the look, tone, and manner of the unhappy young man, that made the gambler, fearless and desperate as he was, hesitate.
               "You will, at least, secure me in mortgage on your property, until such time as sales of it can be effected?" he said, after a pause of some considerable time.
               "I will do no such thing!" was the prompt answer. "My honor is your security, and that is all you need expect; for, most assuredly, it is all that you will receive."
               "We will see!" the gambler said, rising suddenly and leaving the office.
               After he had left, Lennox went to the office of a real estate broker, and made arrangements with him for the sale of a house, estimated to be worth four thousand dollars lars—the most valuable piece of property owned by his mother. The terms, as proposed by himself, were one-half in cash, one-fourth in six, and one-fourth in twelve months. In the course of the next two weeks a purchaser was found, for the property was desirable, being under but a nominal ground rent. The money was paid down, notes given, and deed transferred. It was but half an hour after the closing of this transaction, that the gambler entered his office.
               "You are a prompt man," Lennox said ironically.
               "Such is my reputation," was the cool reply.
               Without another word, Lennox proceeded to fill a check for the two thousand dollars, which he had just deposited. This he handed to his unwelcome visitor, after receiving the obligations which he had given, when the latter bowed low and withdrew.
               "A lesson for a lifetime, I should think," the young man murmured to himself, sinking back in his chair, overcome with a rising and overpowering sense of despondency. "Fool! fool that I have been! This day I might have stood among the first and most successful advocates at the Bar—but for my blind, mad folly! I have sold my birth-right for a mess of pottage! Wretch, fool, madman that I am! And now I am going on to entail tenfold misery on the head of that honored mother, whose life I have already made a burden too painful to be borne! Wretched man that I am!—What shall save me from this wild infatuation? I feel that I have lost the power of self-control, and am madly rushing on to destruction. O, wretched, wretched man that I am!"
               Under this heart-aching sense of his debased and help-less condition did he sit for nearly an hour, when he arose hastily from his chair, saying in a husky voice:
               "I can bear this no longer."
               Leaving his office, he turned his steps towards one of the hotels, and in a few minutes stood at the bar, where he called for liquor. Turning off a glass there, he proceeded to another and another, drinking at each place, until he had taken six strong glasses of brandy. This did not intoxicate him, but elevated his mind above the paralysing alysing effects of a consciousness of his embarrassed condition.
               On the next day a bill of taxes, and two or three other bills, were presented amounting to about one hundred and fifty dollars. To pay these, he had not the first dollar. His professional fees were reduced to a mere trifle, and there were to be no further returns from the sale which had just been made for six months. To resort again to play, he felt would be madness. There was nothing left but to sell another house, and to this he resorted most reluctantly. The sale was for fifteen hundred dollars—five hundred in cash, and the balance, as before, in payments of six and twelve months.
               He now felt comparatively easy in mind; for present relief, where the emergency has been trying, always throws into a degree of obscurity the approaching, but, comparatively, distant trouble. But this feeling gradually subsided, and his mind became oppressed with the idea that utter ruin was approaching, and would involve him inevitably. The effect of all this upon his mind was to make him silent and gloomy at home.
               As to the state of his mother's mind—that mother who had loved him with such a deep and confiding love—under all the evils of her relation towards her son of which she was conscious, we feel our pen inadequate to a description. Her manner and appearance were all sadly changed. She seemed to have lived twenty years during less than half that period. The cheerful countenance, ever responding to the inward play of varied and pleasing emotions, had become fixed into an unchanging expression of subdued, touching melancholy, mingled, as even a careless eye might see, with something of hopelessness. To Alfred she always spoke in the kindest and gentlest tones, and regarded him and loved him with a deeper interest than ever—that peculiar kind of interest which a parent always feels for a child hopelessly deformed, and rendered in a measure disgusting to others. She did not give way to a paralysing despondency under her severe trials, but was kept in a degree of calm yet exquisitely painful resignation tion to her hard lot. The wind, tempered in a degree to the shorn lamb, was still a cold and biting wind.
               Things remained nearly in the same condition in which we have presented them for about a year and a half, when Lennox, who had been several times during the period tempted to risk something at the gambling table, found himself again in a narrow place, in consequence of having lost several large sums of money. The only property that remained of all that had been entrusted to his care, was a small house worth twelve or fourteen hundred dollars, and the dwelling in which they lived, which was a very handsome one. Of all this Mrs. Lennox was profoundly ignorant. Nor did any suspicion of the real state of affairs cross her mind. She knew that the habits of her son must involve a constant outlay of money, but she supposed that he was of course doing something in the way of his profession by which all his wants were more than supplied. Every time she asked for money, the amount desired, whether large or small, was promptly handed to her, and thus no suspicion was allowed to enter her mind.
               No resource presenting itself, Lennox was induced to sell again. He did so, and received a few hundred dollars as the cash payment on the sale. Conscious that this amount could not possibly meet all the demands that would be made upon him, his mind entered seriously upon a debate of the question, how that small sum could be used to reproduce itself. Of course, to a man in his condition, and to one who had already been tempted to play, no means could present themselves better than the gambling table. The income from his profession was a mere trifle, for few were disposed to employ him in any case that involved even small consequences. To the gaming table then, he resorted, risking only small sums, and breaking away when the chances were against him. But, although he often won, yet he rarely left one of those miserable haunts without a diminution of the sum of money with which he had entered. At last every dollar had vanished.
               "If I only had fifty dollars I could recover all—I know that I could!" he said, one morning, as the influence of his early potations began to be felt. Under this new impulse of hope he went and borrowed, on a mortgage of the house in which they lived, the sum of four hundred dollars. Twelve o'clock that night found him wandering the street half delirious, without a dollar in his pocket.
               Thus he continued to waste, in vain efforts to gain back what he had so wickedly squandered of his widowed mother's substance, until all was gone. The house in which they lived was only nominally the property of Mrs. Lennox—there were upon it mortgages fully covering every cent of its value. And for a payment of the loans upon these, her son was daily harassed. Of all this she was in profound ignorance.
               "I want thirty or forty dollars, Alfred," she said to him, as he was about rising from the breakfast table, at a time when his mind was in a state of tumult under the first vivid and harrowing consciousness of his true position.
               He started involuntarily at the request, and a confused expression passed suddenly over his countenance. This, if perceived, was not understood by his mother—at least suspicion was not aroused in her mind. At the regular dinner hour he did not come home, a circumstance of such rare occurrence that it troubled Mrs. Lennox. Towards evening, however, he returned, but so much intoxicated as to be obliged to go to bed. On the next morning when he awoke, it was with a vivid consciousness of the true nature of his relation towards his mother. Her already sadly changed appearance troubled him, and had continued to trouble him all along, for its cause he knew but too well. How much more distressing would be the change when she should come to know all! He dared not think of it.
               To meet her at the breakfast table, without the money she had asked for on the day before, he did not dare to do; for he felt that, if he should do so, he must inevitably betray the secret of his mad waste of her entire substance. He therefore arose, and quietly left the house. To his office he first went, but the tumult of his mind was too great to allow him to remain there but for a short period. From thence he repaired to a tavern and drank freely. Meeting a few friends there, about as abandoned to the vice of tippling as himself, he spent a great portion of the morning in drinking and discussing politics. When he at last emerged from the place, it was near twelve o'clock. At first he turned his steps towards his office—but the image of duns and collectors arose in his mind, and caused him to change the direction he had taken. For a time he wandered about the street, undetermined what to do or where to go. At last he resolved to go home.
               On entering the house he found his mother standing in the middle of the parlor floor, pale and trembling, with an expression of the most harrowing anguish of spirit upon her countenance.
               "O, mother! what is the matter?" her son involuntarily exclaimed, while the blood grew cold about his heart, for he had an instinctive perception that the worst had come.
               "Tell me, Alfred," she said, in a husky whisper, "if it be indeed true that you have mortgaged this house for an amount fully equal to its value?"
               "It is too true!" responded the unhappy man, bursting into tears.
               "And the rest of my property?" pursued the mother.
               "All gone," was the brief reply.
               "O, when shall I awake from this horrible dream!" the heart-stricken mother murmured, sinking upon a sofa, faint and helpless as an infant.
               A promise, a pledge of amendment and of devotion to his mother arose to the lips of her son—and he was sincere in his wish to do all that he was about to promise, but he felt that such a promise would be in vain; for he had come to despair of ever being able to conquer the desire for liquor which was now irresistible. He therefore stood a silent spectator of her misery, without being able to offer a single word or act of alleviation. A few minutes passed, and then Mrs. Lennox arose slowly and retired to her chamber, where she sunk upon her knees and prayed to the Strong for strength, to whom alone she could look for support under this new, unexpected, and most painful trial, involving, as it did, not only the entire loss of all her means of support, but destroying that sustaining confidence in her son's integrity that had kept her head as it were above the billows. In the consciousness too that she had at least an income of some six or seven hundred dollars, besides her house to live in, she had felt that she could ever have a home for her infatuated child. That hope was now not only cut off, but she knew not, when the crisis came, as come she felt that it must, where she would find even for herself a shelter or home.
               During that morning, in the absence of Lennox, a legal process had been served upon him at the house, preparatory to a foreclosure of the mortgages. This process came into his mother's possession, and at once revealed to her the secret he had been so anxious to conceal from her. A few weeks sufficed to effect a sad change in Mrs. Lennox's external circumstances. Her home of thirty years was taken from her, and she was forced to remove to a very small and uncomfortable tenement, after the sale of a great portion of her furniture, the proceeds of which formed her only means of support for herself and her son, to whom her affections, shocked and lacerated as they had been, still clung with a deep and abiding tenderness.
               As for him, the shock roused him to a temporary exertion. For a few months he abstained from drink, and attended regularly at his office and the court room. Several cases had already come into his hands, and his mother had begun to feel new hope for him enkindling in her bosom—was beginning to be reconciled to the change in her circumstances, if the effect upon Alfred was to be so salutary, when he fell again, and abandoned himself to a lower degree of moral debasement.
               A few more years sufficed to sink Mrs. Lennox into a condition of abject poverty, and to make her son as abandoned and wretched in appearance as he was in character. It was with the utmost difficulty that, stricken in years and broken in health, the mother could procure, by knitting and very course sewing, for her eyesight had failed her very much as years accumulated, even the necessary food, coarse in quality, that was required to sustain nature. In him the desire for drink had increased until the obtaining of it made up the one end of his life. For a time, when other means failed, he would borrow small sums from old acquaintances; when this could no longer be done, and he could get liquor in any of the lowest and vilest places on trust, he resorted to that means. But his failure to pay soon cut off this resource. Then he would abstract, when opportunity offered, pennies and even small silver from his mother, hard as she had to toil for the meagre pittance she could obtain, until she was forced to keep this temptation out of his way. Often he would go for nearly a whole day without a drink, and when night came, half maddened by his intolerable desire, would solicit money in the street, and when this failed, beg for bread and sell it for liquor! This was his deplorable condition at the time when he was induced to attend the meeting of reformed drinkers, where he signed the pledge.
               "Do not go out to-night, Alfred," his mother said, as he arose from the table on that stormy evening, and lifted his hat, preparatory to leaving the house. The look that she gave him was sorrowful indeed, but still blended much of a parent's earnest love. He did not reply—only paused a moment or two, under the desire not to pain her by acting contrary to her reasonable request—but the thirst for drink was irresistible, and his hesitation ended in his saying,
               "I will be back soon," when he glided hurriedly away.
               The appearance of everything in the house indicated a low degree of poverty. The handsomely-furnished, and commodious dwelling had been changed for a small frame tenement, containing one room below, and two narrow chambers above. The furniture of that below, in which the mother sat, consisted of a few common chairs and a table, with sundry small articles of household economy, the whole not worth ten dollars. The appearance of the place was cheerless and desolate in the extreme, and rendered still more so by the feeble light of a single small candle. Without, the rain beat heavily against the windows, and the wind came in fitful gusts. It was just fifteen years since the removal of her husband had made her a widow;—the change in all things around her, but more particularly in herself, indicated the passage of twice that number of annual cycles, each burdened with reverses and afflictions.
               "Poor boy!" she murmured, as Alfred closed the door after him, heaving a deep sigh as she spoke.
               Then lifting from the shelf a large family Bible, she placed it upon the table, and endeavored to read as well as the dim light and her wretched vision would permit. Her progress was slow, but as she lingered over each verse, a deeper meaning than that apparent in the mere letter of the Word, seemed to come by an influx into her mind, bearing with it a degree of confidence in her Heavenly Father, and thence a measure of peace, such as she had not experienced for many, many years. As she thus read on, she would pause ever and anon to look upwards with moistened eyes—now with the murmured expression of resignation,
               "Thy will, O Lord, be done!"
               Or the prayer,
               "Help me to suffer as well as to do thy will O, my Father."
               Or—
               "Still, Lord, suffer me to pray for my erring one. Let it please thee to bring him back. O, let my last days be cheered by his restoration."
               Then she would again bend over the holy Book, and ponder its sacred truths, whose influence continued to fall like gentle dews upon the parched ground. She felt comforted in her affliction above what she had been for many months, and she was conscious that the comfort she experienced was from on high.
               But as time passed away, and the storm without abated not, she began to be troubled at the prolonged absence of her son. He had said that he would be back soon, but more than an hour had passed since he left the house, and yet he had not returned. What she most feared was that he might fall intoxicated in the street, and freeze to death. Her anxiety about him had approached almost to alarm, when about ten o'clock the door opened quietly and he entered tered. As she looked up, she was conscious that there was about him some change, though its nature was not apparent to her mind. He was evidently no more under the influence of liquor than when he went out—that, in a moment or two, her mind apprehended.
               "I am glad you are home, Alfred," she said; "I have been troubled about you. It is a cold and stormy night for one no better protected than you are to be out."
               "I am better protected, mother, than you think for," he replied mysteriously, as he drew a chair up to the fire, and seated himself near her.
               "I see," she said, observing him more narrowly, "that you have on better and warmer garments than when you went out. Where did these come from, Alfred?"
               "From kind friends, mother—the kindest and best friends I have met for many a long year."
               There was an earnest pathos in his voice as he uttered this brief sentence, that touched the heart of his mother, and made her pulses throb with an interest as new as it was undefined.
               "Who are those friends?—Where are they? Speak out plainly, Alfred," Mrs. Lennox now said, for her interest had become strangely and suddenly excited.
               "I don't know, mother, that you will feel much confidence in what I say—I have deceived both yourself and my own self so sadly and so often," the son replied. "But the truth is this, I have joined the society of reformed drinkers to-night, and I feel more confidence in being able to abide by my pledge than ever I did in any resolution which I have heretofore taken to reform. Others have confidence in me likewise, as these dry and comfortable clothes will testify. Can you take hope, mother?"
               It was only a few days before that Mrs. Lennox had been made acquainted with the wonderful doings of the Washington and Howard Temperance Societies—how they were drawing within their sustaining sphere drunkards of the lowest grade, and thoroughly reforming them. The intelligence had seemed to her like a strange passage in some bewildering dream. But when she heard her son relating, in a calm and earnest manner, that he had united himself with these men, and saw that he had really not been drinking, she felt a new and lively hope springing up, tempered it is true by fear and trembling.
               "A mother's heart never ceases to hope for her child," she said, in reply to his question, the moisture dimming her aged eyes.
               "Hope then for me with a stronger hope, and let me find a power in your confidence," was his reply. "I am deeply in earnest now; and with my earnest effort to reform, is united what I have never had before, the sustaining power of a large society. O, mother! if you could know how wretched I have been for the last six months—wretched in body and mind, you would feel sure, that, once escaped from the horrible pit and the miry clay, nothing could tempt me back again."
               "O, my son, if you can only find power to abide by this resolution," Mrs. Lennox said, her voice trembling, and a sudden agitation running through every nerve, "how happy I shall be! The past shall all sink into oblivion, or be remembered only to add pleasure to the present."
               "I will abide, mother. I feel that I must abide."
               "Then let us give thanks to Him who has thus caused light to spring up amid darkness—to Him who will be strength to us in every good resolution."
               As she said this, the mother sunk upon her knees, and her son by her side, and with humble acknowledgements for the great good with which their Heavenly Father had now blessed them, prayed that when the storms of temptation again prevailed, the weak one might be delivered from evil.
               Then they arose, and each retired with more peaceful hearts than they had known for many long years. Day after day now passed by, and Lennox went out and came in a perfectly sober man. In spite of her efforts to feel assured, his mother could not, however, but live in fear and trembling; though this gradually subsided, especially as he sought immediate employment, and unexpectedly obtained, through some friends of the temperance movement, who knew his legal abilities, the management of several good cases, with the payment of a portion of the fees at once. These enabled him to obtain such clothing as was necessary for one in the position which he had professionally to occupy, besides leaving him a little ready cash, every cent of which he gave to his mother, thus relieving her from the oppressive burden of having to labor for the means of subsistence. Before this supply was gone, more came providentially into his hands, which was as promptly placed in hers.
               The sudden appearance of Lennox at the Bar, under the known circumstances of his reformation, created a lively interest in his favor, and everything was done to sustain him. Six months had only passed when he was able to rent a larger and better house for his mother—to furnish it with some degree of comfort, and to provide her with a servant. Then, indeed, did she truly feel confidence in her son, born to her anew. Like the son of the widow spoken of in the Gospels, she received him, as it were, from the dead.
               It was, perhaps, about this time, that there sat one day, in a well furnished apartment in the same city, a maiden, over whose head some thirty-five years at least had passed. Though still fair, there was upon her face a deep cast of thoughtful melancholy. She was sitting by a table, leaning her head upon her hand, with a newspaper by her side, from which she had evidently been reading. After some time thus spent in deep abstraction, she lifted the paper, and read over, as if for the second or third time, a paragraph running thus:
               "A PLEASING SCENE.—Yesterday we stepped into the court room to observe the progress of an important trial. We found Mr. A. Lennox on the floor, and listened for more than an hour to one of the most able arguments we have heard for a long time. Mr. L. seems to have lost little of the vigor, depth and brilliancy of mind that distinguished his best efforts at the Bar, more than ten years ago. Our readers are aware that a great change has taken place in him, and that he is now in every respect a reformed man. He will yet take a high position at our Bar."
               
               A long, deep respiration followed the reading of this paragraph, and again the maiden fell into a profound reverie.
               The reader has no doubt guessed her to be none other than Florence R—. Her father had died some four or five years previous, and left her a handsome property. From the time of her rejection, under the counsel of her father, of the suit of Mr. Lennox, she had in a good degree secluded herself from society, much to the pain of her father. In spite of this seclusion, she was twice wooed, but unsuccessfully. Her affections had become too deeply pledged, and were not to be transferred to another. Conscious of this, from her conduct, her father feared that, in the event of his death, Lennox might make a show of reformation, and again press his suit. To guard as much as possible against one of the consequences of this, he willed her only a certain portion of his property, giving the balance to her children if she should marry and have issue. In case she died without issue, the whole reverted to the family of a relative.
               A few days after Florence had become fully conscious of the position that Lennox was taking since his reformation, a fact that had some time before reached her ears, he was passing down Market street, when he suddenly met her face to face. He did not feel authorized to speak to her, under all the circumstances; but he read the expression of her eyes, and felt that there lingered yet in her heart an unextinguished, and unextinguishable affection for him.
               "How pale, and thin, and sad she looks!" he said to himself, as he reached his office, and sat down to reflect deeply upon the incident. "How inextricably involved is the happiness of others in our actions! When one branch falls, how many a twig is borne along with it! Poor Florence: What a life of hopeless sorrow has been thine — and I, wretch that I have been! have madly entailed it all upon thee. But she loves me still—I feel that she does; and near my heart no image has ever rested but hers. Can I—ought I to hope yet for her hand?
               Such reflections could not but be succeeded by action A week had not passed before he had sent her a note requesting questing an interview. It was granted. Old feelings were of course revived at once, and with a new power. She had none to counsel her but her own heart, and that plead strongly for her old lover and friend. For a few months he continued to visit her, and then formally renewed his offer for her hand, which was accepted. They were not, however, married for a year after, at which time he had taken, as predicted, the high position his talents commanded. He had lost much, of course, during ten years of almost total neglect of legal matters. But a year and a half of close application for one of his natural vigor of mind, stored his mind with authorities and principles of almost universal application.
               It is now six months since he was united in holy wedlock to Florence R—, and nearly a year since his aged mother was removed to a better and happier world. We might linger here in presenting pleasant pictures in the life of Mr. and Mrs. Lennox—pictures that would affect the heart with delightful emotions, but we are admonished to close our story, already prolonged beyond the prescribed limits, leaving it with the reader to sketch, in fancy, scenes of pleasantness and peace, making glad the hearts of two, long held asunder by an inseparable barrier, but now restored to each other in confidence and hope.
               
               
                  
                     THE BOTTLE.
                     SCENE 8th.—THE BOTTLE HAS DONE ITS WORK—IT HAS DESTROYED THE INFANT AND THE MOTHER, IT HAS BROUGHT THE SON AND THE DAUGHTER TO VICE AND TO THE STREETS, AND HAS LEFT THE FATHER A HOPELESS MANIAC.
                  
               
            
            
               THE MODERATE DRINKER.
               
               THE MODERATE DRINKER
               "COME, Harvey, let us have a drink," said Henry Martin to his friend, Harvey Gray, as the two stood conversing at the corner of the street, one beautiful evening in June.
               "Thank you, Henry—I do not care about drinking."
               "Nonsense! Come along! I shall take it as an offence if you do not drink with me."
               "I hope not, Henry; for, as I refuse to drink from principle, I should regret extremely to have you take an offence because I do not feel at liberty to violate a principle."
               "Principle! What has principle to do with drinking, pray?"
               "In my case it has a good deal to do with it. It is a dangerous habit, and therefore I will not indulge it."
               "Dangerous! How strangely you talk!"
               "Did you never see a drunkard, Henry?
               "Certainly—what then?"
               "Have you never felt afraid of becoming such a debased, unhappy creature?"
               "Do you wish to insult me, Harvey Gray?" the friend said, half indignantly.
               "You know that I do not," was the calm reply.
               "Then how could you ask me such a question?'
               "Because it seemed to me pertinent to the matter under consideration. The most debased drunkard was once a sober man, and dreamed as little of danger as you seem to now"
               
               "But he drank immoderately—I am a moderate drinker I know exactly how much to take."
               "So did he once, and no doubt reasoned as you do."
               "I shall really get seriously offended, if you continue to allude to me in that way, Harvey," the young man said. "It no more follows that because a man drinks he is in danger of drunkenness, than it does that because a man crosses a bridge every day, he is in danger of sinking with that bridge into the stream below. Men have fallen with bridges and men have become drunkards—but where one falls, thousands remain uninjured in either case."
               "You bring into your argument the power of analogy and comparison, but I cannot see that it bears truly on the question, especially as your conclusion is fatally incorrect—the thousand to one do not certainly remain uninjured in the case of drinking. So fully have I become satisfied of this, that I have resolved to abstain from the unnecessary use of intoxicating liquors as a matter of principle."
               "You did not feel yourself particularly in danger, I hope?"
               "I certainly did, Henry; and yet I drank as moderately as you do—perhaps more so. But in a comparison of the quantity I drank, and the desire that I felt, with what both were a year ago, I found that both were increased in a ratio of at least fifty per cent. I found that I remembered more distinctly the usual hour of drinking, and began to look forward with interest to the approach of that hour. These things convinced me that I was in danger, and I at once resolved to stop short."
               "You were frightened at a shadow, Harvey. Thank Heaven! I am conscious of a power over myself that must ever keep me from any immoderate indulgence in this respect."
               "Let him that standeth take heed lest he fall, Henry."
               "You can take heed—I am conscious of no danger. But the fact is, Harvey, this kind of talk vexes me. It involves a reflection upon my character, for it supposes that I am in danger of becoming that low, miserable, debased wretch, a common drunkard."
               "There is only one means of reaching any point, and that is, to enter into the right way. Now the only way to drunkenness, is through habitual moderate drinking. Any one who is a moderate drinker, then, is on the only known road to drunkenness. He may never reach that deplorable condition—he may never indulge beyond a certain rigid bound of moderation, but for every one who thus restrains himself, ten will rush on to ruin. For myself, I confess that I am afraid to take such a fearful risk. More especially, as I stand not in the smallest need of intoxicating drinks."
               "I am sure that they are useful and good in their place."
               "Everything is useful and good in its place—but alcoholic drinks, I contend are out of their place, when used to stimulate unnaturally a healthy body. Good nourishing food, plenty of exercise and a cheerful temper, are sufficient to keep up in the stomach and nervous system a truly healthful action. If, by artificial stimulants, you increase this action temporarily, on the subsidence of the stimulating effects, the tone of the system must fall below the healthy point, for a process of exhaustion has gone on. Necessarily, now, it must take some time for nature to come back to that equilibrium of activity which has been destroyed. If such a disturbing influence is brought to bear regularly upon the human organism and its activity, the system will fail at last to come back to a natural state, and then will come the regular demand for stimulant, and the unhappy individual will believe himself unable to live without it. The process I have described briefly, may be twenty years in reaching a climax, but if not checked at some point, the result will sooner or later be that which I have described.
               "But I know exceptions to your rule, Harvey. There is old Mr. T—; he takes his brandy regularly three times a day, and has done so, he tells me, for the last forty years. Yet he is not a drunkard—nay, is not excited by liquor, and says he never was in his life."
               "Can you say the same, Henry?"
               "No, I cannot."
               "Then see the difference. Old Mr. T— has been drinking brandy for at least forty years, and has never been excited by liquor in his life. You have been habitually using it every day for about five years, and have been excited hundreds of times. Consequently you are nearer to drunkenness—excuse me—at twenty-three, than Mr. T— is at sixty. He presents one of those rare instances where a man may habitually indulge in the use of strong drinks for a long series of years, and not be overcome by them—your case is one of the thousands, where the fondness for liquor increases day after day, until it gains the mastery. Take my word for it, Henry, you are in imminent danger!"
               "Really, Harvey," his friend replied in a serious tone, "if any one but you were to talk to me in that way, I would never forgive him."
               "To any one else I might not feel at liberty thus to speak. With you I take the privilege of a friend."
               "And I, as a friend, must say that I think you exhibit a great deal of weakness."
               "I feel, Henry," Gray said, "too weak to allow myself to be brought into contact with a powerful habit, such as that of drinking."
               "Well, I'm not afraid—I know my own strength."
               "You do not really know yourself, or you would not speak so confidently—boastingly I might say—as you do. You know the power of habit in the case of the tobacco-chewer. At first the weed is nauseous to his taste, but after a few attempts to chew it, its effects upon the nervous system become so pleasant, and his desire for it so strong, that he cannot do without it. So it is with stimulating drinks—they induce such a change in the whole tone of the system, that a constant demand for their influence is created, which demand soon forms into a habit which but few can break through. In the first instance, the effect of the habit is not so disastrous as in the last."
               "Well, it's no use to talk, Harvey," his friend said, in a tone of impatience. "You might talk from now till doomsday, but would most certainly fail to convince me that I am in danger of becoming a drunkard. I flatter myself that I am too much of a man to debase myself in that way. So come along and take a drink with me."
               "What!—after I have declared that for me to drink is dangerous, do you urge me thus?"
               "I don't believe you are in a particle of danger. But, if you think you are, why do not drink, that's all."
               "I certainly shall not," was his firm reply.
               "Well, then I must bid you good evening, for I am as dry as a fish and must have a glass."
               Thus the friends parted, one to return home to his family and the other to lounge for an hour in a tavern, and indulge in two or three useless glasses of liquor. This was not the regular practice of Martin. Perhaps not more than once or twice in the week was he to be found away from his young wife, to whom he had been married a few months. But often when he did not go out, he felt a wish to do so, the thought of a glass of mixed liquor, producing a strong desire to drink. But he was as perfectly unconscious of danger as he represented himself to be, in his conversation with his friend, and really felt half offended at his remonstrance. His love for his wife, and his strong desire to acquire a competence in the world, he knew to be active in his mind above every thing else, and not to be put in opposition to a more trifling habit of taking a pleasant glass every day.
               Some five years rapidly passed away, during which time Henry Martin continued his habit of moderate drinking. Two glasses a day had increased to three or four, yet the progress had been so slow, that he was himself unconscious of it. In his worldly matters, industry and activity were meeting their reward. His business was increasing and he had already purchased himself a handsome dwelling. He had likewise become the father of three children, all daughters.
               "I am not a drunkard yet, you see, Harvey," he said to his old friend, whom he occasionally met, and whom he had never really forgiven in his heart for what he had said years before.
               "And I trust never will be, Henry," was his reply.
               "You still think me in danger, I suppose?"
               
               "I certainly do."
               "Do you think I am anything more than a moderate drinker yet?"
               "I hope not."
               "Have you seen anything to convince you to the contrary?"
               "No, I believe not."
               "And yet you think me in danger?"
               "I do."
               "You are mistaken."
               "Then why do you not give up a mere useless habit, in the indulgence of which there is, at least, remote danger, and danger of the worst kind?"
               "Because I don't see any occasion for so doing."
               "I think I can give a better reason."
               "Well, what is it?"
               "Because you have not the resolution to contend against its fascinations."
               "It is not that."
               "No doubt you think so—but I am persuaded that what I allege is the true reason."
               Martin shook his head, and then waived the subject.
               Six months after that time, he was thrown off his guard, at a supper party, and drank to intoxication.
               "If Harvey had seen me last night," he said, laughingly, to a friend the next day, "he would have thought that it was a gone case with me. Poor fellow! He is as much afraid of a glass of brandy as I would be of a rattlesnake."
               The friend laughed, encouragingly, at the same time that he thought within himself that Harvey would have had some ground for his fears.
               Five years more passed away, in the steady progress of time, and found Martin, whose business was that of a grocer, worth some twenty thousand dollars, and moving in quite a respectable station, for he was a man of considerable intelligence. His family now consisted of his wife and five daughters the oldest about ten years of age, and the youngest but a babe.
               As for himself, he was only, in his own estimation, a moderate drinker, and not in the least danger, notwithstanding he drank as often again as he did five years before, and each glass of double the strength. He was, of course, at all times more or less under the influence of liquor, and usually felt wretched in the morning until he had steadied his nerves by a strong glass of brandy and water.
               His friend Harvey had moved away from the city, and there was, therefore, no one who would take the liberty of pointing out to him his danger. But it would have subserved no good end, however, for he could not have borne it, and would have felt it to be almost an insult.
               At forty-five, with a young family of daughters, the eldest of whom, well educated and accomplished, were just at the age to go into society, Mr. Martin began to feel conscious of the encroachments and power of an evil habit—conscious that he was no longer a mere moderate drinker. But this, not until he had, unstimulated by company to drink too freely, become intoxicated in his own family, and from liquor drunken at his own sideboard, and alone. In this condition he was seen by his wife and children—to them a sad, heart-aching sight, for he was one of the tenderest of husbands and fathers.
               It was some weeks before the shadow that fell upon his household was dispelled; but ever after there was something of fear about their hearts whenever they saw him put the cup to his lips.
               For the first time in his life he now felt that he was in danger, and resolved to be more cautious in future—to remain what he had always been, a moderate drinker He restricted his number of glasses a day to ten, an amount that he could have borne very well, if it had not happened that he filled them nearer to the brim than before. Flattering himself that he was now drinking moderately, he went on to indulge himself day after day, steadily increasing the quantity of liquor while the number of glasses remained the same. At dinner he began to use it more freely, hiding its effects upon him by a long afternoon nap. This involved a neglect of his business, which was now left more and more to the management of his clerks.
               For some years the old temperance movement had been in operation, its advocates laboring with zeal and efficiency in guarding those who were yet beyond the charmed circle of self-indulgence. With many of its ablest friends and supporters, Martin was on terms of intimacy, and often alluded to himself in his discussions with them, as an instance of a man who had been in the habit of drinking regularly for more than twenty-five years without becoming a drunkard, thus indicating his belief that be could still control himself.
               "I consider you in imminent danger," said one of these individuals to him, with more than ordinary frankness.
               "How so?" he asked in surprise.
               "Because, to speak honestly, Mr. Martin," was the reply, "I fear that the habit, which you boast of having so much under your control, is gaining a fatal predominance over your resolutions. My own observation tells me that a single year has wrought a great change in you."
               "In what respect, sir?"
               "You evidently drink more than you did."
               "That is a mistake, let me tell you, sir. I take a less number of glasses than I did twelve months ago."
               "Then the quantity is increased—for the effects upon you are much more apparent."
               At this Mr. Martin was silent and evidently offended, and so his plain-spoken friend bade him a good-morning.
               Such a system of moderate drinking, to a man of his age, necessarily unfitted him for business, and the consequence was, that his affairs began gradually to fall into disorder; and this too at a time when the expenses of education and other things in regard to his children had become greatly augmented. The troubles incident to an embarrassed business had the effect to cause him to resort more frequently to his sideboard, and, at length, to elude the observation of his family, who were too evidently conscious of his weakness, and distressed at its effects upon him, to the taverns and liquor stores.
               Two or three years previous to this time, Anna, his eldest daughter, had been married to a promising young merchant, and Emily, the next in age, was engaged and about being married to another young man, of equal standing and promise. Three younger daughters, all deeply attached to their father, were advancing towards the period of womanhood, all forming a family of no common interest.
               But from the oldest to the youngest there mingled a troubled feeling with their filial affection. The thought of their father ever rested like a burden upon their hearts, for to all, his weakness and infatuation had be come clearly apparent. The mother had a double cause for concern—she saw that their substance was gradually wasting away; that her husband's business was becoming more and more embarrassed, and that inevitable ruin stared them in the face.
               At last the crisis came. At the age of fifty he failed in business, and had every dollar taken from him. Its effect was to completely paralyse all his energies. He made no attempt again to enter into any kind of business, spent most of his time wandering about the streets, and drinking still more immoderately—frequently to intoxication. It was no uncommon thing to see him staggering about in public places in noon-day.
               The whole burden now fell upon Mrs. Martin. Two of her daughters were comfortably married, and would have gladly given her a home, with their sisters, but they could not so far trespass upon the rights and feelings of their husbands as to introduce their father also with his habits—and without him they could not come. For a time the drooping and disheartened wife and mother resorted to that often tried expedient of widows and wives with drunken or lazy husbands, the keeping of a boarding house, an expedient that, nine times in ten, utterly fails of success.
               Six months after she had opened her house, she sat in the neatly arranged parlor of her eldest daughter Her face was thin and pale, and wore an expression of sorrow, in lines that had become fixed. She looked older by ten or fifteen years than she really was, and had an air of feebleness such as appertains to ill health or old age.
               "How are things with you now, ma?" her daughter asked, after the first salutations were over.
               "Bad enough, Anna," the mother replied, in a sad, desponding tone. "I believe I shall have to break up."
               "Indeed! I am sorry for that." Then, after a pause, "And scarcely sorry either, for the life of toil you now live is killing you.'
               "I feel that it is, Anna. But what shall I do? I must not sit down in idleness. The children have to be raised and educated, and there is no one now but me to do it."
               "Don't your boarders pay you?" Anna asked, after a painful silence of some minutes.
               "Yes, with one or two exceptions. But there is little profit to be made by keeping boarders, where a high rent has to be paid, and a number of wasteful servants kept. And besides, it costs me a good deal to keep your father in money. I am sure he does not spend less than five or six dollars a week."
               "For what?"
               "In drinking, I suppose."
               "Isn't it dreadful, ma!" Anna said, the tears coming to her eyes, "just to think what he might have been? So respectable, so intelligent, so kind! Everybody liked him; but now—O, it is dreadful!"
               "It is indeed, Anna. No man could have been more respected than he—no family happier than ours, had it not been for this wretched habit of drinking, which has gained on him almost imperceptibly for years, until it has acquired an absolute dominion over him."
               "You don't know how bad he makes me feel sometimes, ma," Anna said, after another brief and oppressive silence. "He never comes here now except when he has been drinking to excess; and he is almost sure to come when Mr. N— is at home, and his presence always annoys him very much. It is only for my sake hat he does not forbid him the house. Night before last he came in when we had company, and acted so badly that Mr. N— had to call him out, and tell him he must go home. O, ma, you cannot tell how wretched I felt! I did not blame my husband, for he cannot feel towards him as I do."
               "I feel for you deeply, Anna," the mother replied "But we must endeavor to bear our hard lot with resignation."
               "So I often say to myself, ma. But it is hard to be resigned to such an affliction. I could bear his death—but his degradation—O, it makes me feel awful sometimes."
               At that moment Mr. N—, the husband of Anna, came in unexpectedly from his store.
               "Good morning, ma," he said, in a cheerful tone, "I am glad to see you. I have been thinking of you for the past hour a good deal, and have just come in to talk with Anna about matters and things. And, as you are here, we may be able to talk, perhaps, to more purpose. To begin then, it seems to me that the best thing you can do is to give up your boarding-house. It is a slave's life, and I can see that you are sinking under it."
               "We were just talking about that very thing, Charles," Anna said, in an animated tone.
               "I am glad of it. Then I hope you have come to the conclusion, ma, that it is the best thing that you can do?"
               I am forced to that conclusion, Charles."
               "Have you made up your mind what to do after giving up?"
               "Indeed I have not. That is the doubt and uncertainty that troubles me."
               "Will you be guided by me?"
               "I will, Charles; for my own mind is so bewildered, and everything around me seems so dark, that I cannot see any object in a clear light."
               "I will tell you then what I have been thinking that you ought to do. Give up your boarding-house at once, of course, and move into a smaller house. I bought one yesterday, at a public sale, at a very low price. It shall be yours to live in, rent free so long as you choose to occupy it. Anna and I will take Mary, and Emily and her husband can take Julia, thus leaving you only the care of little Harriet. How do you like that arrangement?"
               The brightening up of Mrs. Martin's countenance showed how much her oppressed heart had been relieved by the proposition.
               "As a means of relief from burdens too heavy for me to bear, I will accept your proposition with gladness," she said, with emotion, "though it is a hard task for a mother to be forced to part with her children, and part with them too under such circumstances."
               "I know that it is a painful necessity," her son-in-law replied; "but it cannot now, I fear, be helped."
               "I fear not."
               "But what will you do, ma, after you remove?"
               "I will take care of that, Anna," replied her husband, promptly. "That has all been considered. Emily's husband and myself will see that your mother does not stand in need of anything; and that she shall no longer have to toil to support herself and family."
               A gush of tears attested the relief which this declaration brought to the mind of Mrs. Martin.
               The arrangement proposed was soon entered upon. The boarding-house was given up, the two children removed to their sisters, and Mrs. Martin comfortably established in a small, neat house, with her husband and Harriet, a little girl just eight years old.
               It was known to Mr. N—, through his wife, that Mr. Martin had been regularly furnished by her mother with money to buy liquor. This resource he determined should be cut off. To do so effectually, Mrs. Martin, her own consent to the 
                     arrangment
                     arrangement
                   being freely given, was to be furnished with but little money. Groceries and dry goods were all obtained on standing orders, and the constant attention of Anna and Emily fully anticipated every other want so as to relieve their mother's mind entirely from any unpleasant feeling.
               The consequence of course was, that Mr. Martin, at a time when his thirst for liquor demanded some fifteen or twenty glasses a day, found every ordinary resource cut off.
               "Give me a dollar, Anna," he said to his wife, on the morning after they had removed, he having submitted passively to the change without seeming to take any interest in it.
               "I have not a cent in the world," was the reply.
               "But I must have it," was his response.
               "I have not a cent," Mrs. Martin repeated.
               "Then what are you going to do?" he asked.
               "Trust to Providence," she said.
               For a moment or two her husband looked at her, half inquiringly, half angrily, for he seemed to doubt her statement. Then he commenced pacing the room backwards and forwards, evidently in a deep study. This continued only for a few minutes, when he lifted his hat and went out.
               To the house of Emily, his second daughter, he proceeded at once.
               "Emily, I want a couple of dollars," he said, as he met her.
               The child could not refuse the request of her father, although she knew that the use he would make of what she gave him would be improper. The two dollars were accordingly handed to him, when he went away after lingering for a few minutes.
               At dinner-time he came home as full of liquor as ever and at night went staggering off to bed. The next day showed the same result. On the next morning he asked his wife again for money. She had a dollar, and could not refuse it. This supplied his wants for that day. On the next morning Mrs. Martin took good care not to have a cent, and therefore he applied to her in vain. To Emily then he again repaired, and obtained the sum he asked for. This was continued for several weeks, his daughter not venturing to mention the subject to any one, until she became so distressed about it as to make it the topic of a special interview with her sister Anna.
               "And now, sister, what shall I do?" she asked earnestly, after stating the matter freely to her.
               
               "It is clear to my mind, Emily," replied her sister, 'that you ought not to give father any money. But I see how painful a trial it will be to refuse him. As for myself, I must confess that I have not the resolution to say no, if he should call upon me."
               "I am almost distressed to death about it," Emily said. "If I mention it to my husband, I know that he will say that I am doing wrong, and insist upon my denying father at once. But he cannot truly appreciate the situation of a child thus placed towards her father."
               "Still, Emily, I think that your plain duty is, to acquaint your husband with the truth, and be guided by him. He will direct none other than a right course, and the path of duty we must endeavor to walk in, no matter how painful it may be."
               "I feel that what you advise is right, Anna, and I must make up my mind at once to act accordingly."
               On that evening Emily informed her husband of what she had been doing. He sympathised with her deeply, and excused what she had done, but very correctly took the position that it would not do for her to continue her supplies. To relieve her from a positive refusal, however he received from her all the money that she had, and they agreed that she should keep no small change about her.
               On the next morning Mr. Martin came as usual, and asked for some money.
               "I have not a dollar in the house, father," Emily replied, her heart beating heavily.
               The old man looked at her steadily for a moment, and then said, half sternly,
               "I never denied you a dollar in my life, Emily, and many hundreds have I paid for you."
               His child burst into tears, and wept for a time bitterly: but she made no reply, for she could not. His cruel remark had fallen upon her heart, with a sudden, smarting shock, that completely broke down her feelings.
               Slowly and silently the old man at last arose and left the house, without uttering a word. Ere his tottering form faded from her eyes, Emily started once or twice to spring forward and restrain him; but, by a powerful effort, she was enabled to remain passive. For a long time after his departure she continued to weep from a sensation of exquisite pain.
               To his eldest daughter the old man now repaired. Anna had not the resolution to say no to the request he preferred, and he obtained what he desired. On the next morning he came again, and so continued regularly, until she had to suffer a like severe trial with that which Emily had endured.
               A few weeks longer Mr. Martin continued to keep up his regular supply of liquor by borrowing small sums from old business acquaintances, who, like his daughters, had not resolution at first to refuse him; then he ran up scores at various drinking-places, until no one would trust him. Driven almost to desperation, he entered, early one morning, the tavern of a man who was known to have but little regard for the opinions of others. All he cared for was to make money.
               "Give me a glass of brandy, Hugh," the old man said, as he came up to the counter.
               "Pay me the old score, Martin."
               I will do it in a few days."
               "So you have been saying for a week past. Pay that first, and then I may trust you again."
               "Look here, Hugh, I'm a good customer you know, and worth retaining," the old man said, leaning over the counter with a serious air.
               "O, yes, good enough if you pay your way."
               "Exactly. Now I have hit upon a plan by which you can not only get what s due you, but secure my entire custom."
               "Well?"
               "Trust me for as much as I want every day, until my bill runs up to fifteen or twenty dollars. Then warrant me on the account, and I will at once confess judgment. You can order a commitment to be made out on the spot, and have me sent to jail. It will only be necessary then to send word to one of my married daughters that I am in jail, and your account will be paid on the instant. How does that strike you?"
               "It is capital."
               "Then give me some liquor, for I am burning up with thirst."
               Hugh Murphy handed him a decanter, from which he poured nearly a tumbler full of brandy. Before raising it to his lips, he took from a box on the counter a piece of lemon peel, chewed it for a few moments, and then put the glass to his mouth. But the odor of the liquor suddenly nauseated his stomach, the healthy tone of which was entirely gone, and he was compelled to return the glass to the counter. The lemon peel was again resorted to, and some of its juice swallowed; then holding his nose with the fingers of one hand, he raised with the other the glass to his lips, and turned its contents off with the same convulsive rapidity that one swallows a nauseous dose of medicine. After this he stood very still for about a minute, until the stimulating effects of the brandy had time to bring back the tone of his stomach. He was then able to take two or three glasses more, each containing about half the amount of the first, when he was ready to enter upon the regular business of the day, which was to drink about every half hour.
               Anna's husband had left only a few minutes for his store, one afternoon about two weeks after this time, when a man called and asked to see her.
               'I am sorry to say, madam, that your father has just been sent to jail," he said, on obtaining an interview with her. "I am the officer whose duty it was made to convey him there, and I have thought it but right that you should be instantly informed of the fact."
               "My father in jail!" poor Mrs. N— exclaimed, turning pale. "Who put him there?—what is he in for?"
               "He has been committed, madam, by a man named Hugh Murphy, to whom he owes a bill of eighteen dollars."
               "He must not stay there, sir," Anna said promptly "how shall I obtain his release?"
               "Simply by a payment of the debt and costs."
               "That I will of course do; and as you, sir, have been so kind as to bring the news of his imprisonment, can I so far trespass on your kindness as to make you the bearer of his release?"
               "I will do it with pleasure, madam," was the officer's courteous reply.
               The amount of debt and costs was handed to the officer, who immediately went to the jail and obtained the infatuated old man's release.
               As soon as he was gone, Anna repaired to her mother's and without acquainting her of the fearful fact she had learned, waited with much anxiety for her father's return. He came in at last, as if nothing had happened; but Anna could not restrain herself.
               "O, father!" she ejaculated, coming up to him quickly and grasping his hand, "is it possible that they have had you in jail?"
               "In jail!" Mrs. Martin said, in a tone of surprise and alarm, at once springing to her feet.
               "Yes, they have had me there," the old man said, with some excitement in his tone; "but thanks to your prompt attention, Anna, I am at liberty once more."
               He then explained to his wife and daughter that he had owed a debt to Hugh Murphy, who had warranted him, and put him in jail before he could send word to any of his friends. They, of course, had not the most remote suspicion of the whole truth.
               This circumstance was deeply mortifying and distressing to the whole family, the more so as it seemed to effect not the slightest change in Mr. Martin's habits, and indicated the beginning of a new series of troubles.
               A month only passed away when Anna was again notified that her father had been imprisoned. This time she went to her husband, as the bill was nearly thirty dollars, and at the suit of the same individual who had before had him committed. She had never mentioned the fact of the former imprisonment, but now she related it all.
               "It is indeed a hard case, Anna," her husband said, with much tenderness in his manner, "and for your sake I will at once have him released, although I feel convinced that the best thing would be to let him remain there for at least a week."
               "I have no doubt but that it would," Anna replied, the tears coming to her eyes, "but he is my father, and I cannot bear the thought of his remaining in that dreadful place an hour."
               Mr. N— did not feel like urging the matter, and so paid the debt and had the old man again released. Scarcely a month had passed away, ere the same scene was acted over once more, the vile wretch whose cupidity had prompted him to be a party in the matter, delighted at the success of the business.
               As soon as Mr. N— became aware of this third imprisonment, he made up his mind as to a plain course of duty. He at once called all the family together, and together the matter was talked over. Anna and Emily plead hard for their father, but it was resolved that he should not be released.
               "If we pay this debt," argued Mr. N—, "that miserable creature, Murphy, will again credit him, and again resort to the same mode of enforcing payment. But if we suffer him to lie in prison, two ends will be gained: Murphy will lose his money, and refuse in consequence to trust him any longer, and he will be cut off from liquor for the time he is compelled to remain there."
               Every one was convinced that, painful to their feelings as it might be, it was the best thing that could be done to let him stay in jail just so long as the grog-shop keeper felt disposed to retain him there.
               The next thirty days were days of severe affliction of mind to his wife and children, who were constantly pained by applications from him, begging to be released. Every thing was done to make him comfortable. He was supplied with a good bed, nourishing food, and was visited frequently by his family. But all his entreaties for release, or to be supplied with liquor were unavailing. For the first few days he trembled on the verge of mania a potu; but the judicious treatment of an able physician prevented the full exhibition of this terrible disease The tavern-keeper who had imprisoned the old man, determined termined that he would not be outdone, and so continued every week to advance the jail fees, for four successive weeks, when, finding that others were as earnest in the matter as himself, he declined losing any thing more, and so permitted Mr. Martin to come out.
               Having abstained for thirty days, his family and friends made a strong effort to induce him to abandon entirely the debasing vice of drunkenness. He promised, and made a feeble but brief effort. Long before the first week of his release had expired, he came home intoxicated. He had found a half dollar in his wife's drawer, and had drunk within an hour as much liquor as it would buy. The insatiable desire that had been suspended in a degree, now came back upon him with almost maddening intensity. Liquor he must have at any and all hazards. Murphy would not, of course, trust him again, nor could be obtain liquor on trust anywhere, for wherever he was known he owed bills for drink. Still, his intolerable desire must be satisfied. His first debauch, after his release from imprisonment, put him in bed for the balance of the day. On the next morning he awoke early, and went out to seek for liquor, he hardly knew where. He had been in the street, however, but a few minutes, when an expedient struck him, and he proceeded direct towards Light street wharf, along which he passed quickly until he came to the neighborhood of Federal Hill, when he turned off into a small street called York street. He had not proceeded far along this before he came to a shop where old clothes were bought, sold, or exchanged, and grog dealt out likewise to a very low class of customers, principally negroes.
               "Have you an old vest that will fit me?" he asked, as he entered this vile place.
               "O, yes," said the keeper, smiling, and coming forward with the same kind of alacrity that is exhibited by the spider when an unlucky fly finds its way into its den.
               "I want to exchange this handsome one which I have on for a more common article, and get the difference."
               "O, certainly, certainly. But we never pay out money here, you know. We always credit in drinks."
               
               "Show me some vests, then."
               A pile of second-hand garments of the kind he asked for were taken from the shelf, and displayed before him. After trying on two or three, he selected one much worn and faded, and was told that he should have credit for three quarters of a dollar in the exchange. This was at once agreed to, and the old vest at once assumed the place of a handsome silk one.
               Old Mr. Martin now began to feel the absolute necessity of not only husbanding his resources, but of drinking the cheapest kind of liquor. He therefore called for whiskey.
               "Will you have a three cent, or a fip glass?" asked the grog-seller.
               "A three cent glass," was the reply.
               About the same quantity of a common article of whiskey as he obtained of brandy ordinarily for a fip, was poured out for him. The shop-keeper did'nt trust his customers to help themselves.
               Now came the serious effort to drink it. Lemon peel was resorted to, and holding of the nose, but all to no purpose—the liquor would not remain on his over tried and weakened stomach.
               "Give me a two cent glass," the wretched old man said, after waiting two or three minutes; "perhaps it will stay now."
               "A two cent glass was poured out, and poured down, but it came back again as suddenly as water from a red-hot surface.
               "Ugh!" ejaculated the drunkard, "this is wretched work! Give me another."
               "A two center or a three center?'
               "A two center of course. It won't do to waste three centers in this way."
               Another glass was poured out, which Martin held in his hand for perhaps two minutes, attentively consulting all the time the condition of his stomach, which, from the stimulating effects of the small portion of the fluid that remained adhering to its coatings, was gradually, but very slowly, coming up to that tone which would enable it to bear its daily burdens."
               "I think it will stay now," he said, raising the glass, and turning it quickly off.
               This was followed by two or three retchings, not powerful enough, however, to throw off what he had taken.
               "That will do, I believe," he said, with an air of satisfaction, as the spasmodic action of the stomach subsided; "now give me a three center."
               Six three cent glasses of a vile, burning stuff, called whiskey, a cheap and poisonous article, were now drank before he left the shop, when the old man turned away, and directed his steps homeward, where he arrived at the regular breakfast hour. His wife saw by the steadiness with which he carried his cup of coffee to his mouth, that he had been drinking, and she also noticed something unusual in his appearance, but could not make out what it was. How he had obtained the liquor was a mystery, for she knew that he had no money, and did not believe that any one would trust him. The feeble hope that had been gaining strength during thirty days of sobriety, was now all scattered to the winds.
               During the day and evening he exhausted the credit which he had obtained in the morning, and returned home just able to keep his feet.
               On the next morning before breakfast he was out again and at the same place exchanged a new hat for an old one. This supplied his wants for the day. Having once begun this system, he found it to act well, and so continued it. His coat was next given to the grog seller for an old, shabby affair, and a credit for liquor of five dollars. He did not come home on this day until evening, hoping thus to elude the observation of his wife on his changed appearance. He came in as quietly as he could, and groped his way up to the chamber, not of course without being heard, where he undressed himself and got into bed. His head had hardly touched the pillow before he was sound asleep.
               When Mrs. Martin came up, her attention was at once attracted by the old coat, which she lifted hurriedly, and examined throughout. The hat and vest she had noticed before. Clasping her hands together with a despairing emotion as she let the soiled and worn garment fall to the floor, she sunk into a chair while a sick faintness passed over her.
               "What is to be done!" she at length murmured, rising and beginning to pace the room backwards and forwards. "O, this infatuation is dreadful!"
               It was long after she had retired before Mrs. Martin could find rest from her troubled thoughts in sleep. She fully perceived the new trial that awaited them, for she well understood the meaning of the change in his garments. It would now be impossible to keep him respectable, even decent in appearance. There were none but his two sons-in-law who were able to purchase him clothing, and she could not expect them to keep him furnished with a supply of decent garments, to be regularly sold or exchanged in order to get money to buy liquor. The lateness of the hour at which she finally sunk to rest, caused her to sleep more soundly as the night waned. When she finally awoke, it was an hour after sunrise. Her husband had already arisen and gone. The breakfast hour arrived, and she waited and waited for him, but he came not. Then she sat down with her little girl, and swallowed a few mouthfuls, but with a heavy heart. Slowly the morning hours rolled away, and dinner time came; but her husband returned not—nor did he make his appearance in the evening, nor all through the night.
               Alarmed and distressed, she called to see her son-in-law, Mr. N—, at an early hour on the next morning, and told all that she had observed in regard to the changed clothing, and his subsequent absence. Mr. N— was deeply pained at the relation, and proposed that nothing should be said to his wife on the subject, while he and Emily's husband made an effort to find the infatuated old man. Mrs. Martin accordingly returned home, and the young men, after consulting together, started out in search of their father-in-law.
               They first proceeded to the neighborhood of Frederick and Water streets, it having been before ascertained that he was in the habit of visiting some of the shops in that vicinity. To an inquiry made in one of the liquor-stores kept by a vulgar-looking Irish woman, they were told that an old man, answering to their description of Mr. Martin, had been in her shop only an hour before for liquor, but that she had refused him because he had no money.
               "Which way did he go after he left your shop?" inquired one of the young men.
               "Down Frederick street towards the wharf," was the reply.
               They turned their steps in that direction, and by inquiry traced the individual described by the Irish woman to another grog-shop half way down to Pratt street. There they were told that he was up stairs, and they ascended a pair of filthy, rickety stairs, to a kind of ill-lighted loft above. A wretched looking man, in soiled and tattered garments, sat half reclining upon the floor. A single glance told them that he was not the individual they were seeking. But he was not the only miserable inmate of this cheerless apartment. There were, besides himself, his wife and five little children. A dark-green shade was bound over the woman's eyes, and it was evident that she saw but imperfectly. A table was on the floor, around which the children stood receiving their morning meal.
               The first impulse of the two men was to retire the moment they ascertained their mistake. But a glance through the apartment, as soon as their eyes became so used to the dim light as to distinguish objects clearly, made them pause.
               "Won't you sit down, sirs?" the woman said, advancing and placing before them two old chairs without backs, the only seats of any kind which the room contained.
               Mechanically N— took the proffered seat, and his companion imitated his example. A glance or two sufficed to make them acquainted with the nature of the meal which the mother had prepared for her little ones. In the centre of the table stood a large earthen pie-dish, a section of which had been broken out almost down to the bottom. To make it hold what had been placed in it the broken side had been elevated by a small brick-bat. It contained what was intended for a kind of soup, consisting of two hock-ends of bacon, which one of the children had picked up in the street, where they had been thrown to the hogs, boiled in water to extract all the nutritious matter that remained. Besides the broken pie-dish that contained this soup, there was a smaller one, broken in a very similar manner, and supported on its edge after a like fashion. Into this smaller dish the mother would lade with an old pewter spoon, half of the handle of which had been broken off, a portion of this miserable food, and then hand the spoon to one of the children, who eat while the rest waited impatiently for their turns to come. So eager for food were all these little ones, the oldest only about eight years of age, that they heeded not the presence of strangers. While this operation was going on, N— said to his brother-in-law, in a low trembling whisper,
               "Wait here a moment."
               And then went hurriedly down stairs. He was gone but a few minutes, when he returned with two or three loaves of bread, and a large piece of cold ham, which he had obtained at an eating-house in the neighborhood. These he placed upon the table, and again seated himself mechanically. Instantly the table was in commotion. The mother quickly grasped a loaf, and breaking it into smaller portions, threw piece after piece to her little group of starving children, who seized the opportune supply and eat ravenously. The drunken husband and father, who, until now, had remained passive upon the floor, came forward to partake of the food, and crowded into a place at the table. There was evidently not a knife in the room, for the mother took the meat in her hand and tore off portions of it, which she distributed around, her husband appropriating a share, and eating with a keen relish. As for her, she tasted nothing until all were supplied, and then seemed to force the food into her mouth, and eat it with no appetite.
               "Horrible!" whispered one of the visitors.
               "It makes me sick," responded the other.
               "Who could have dreamed that such misery existed in this city!" N— added, an expression of pain passing over his face.
               He then drew the poor woman on one side, and learned from her that her husband had become so abandoned as not only to refuse to work at all, thus burdening her with his support, but that he had carried off, at different times, and sold them for liquor, almost every article of furniture, until she had not a bed, plate, cup, knife or fork in the house. That while she could do any thing, she was in the habit of going out to whitewash, and clean houses, but that her sight had suddenly failed her, so that she had become nearly blind, and thus unable to do any thing for her children, who were really in a starving condition. He learned also that she was living in the loft they occupied, at a rent of an elevenpenny-bit a week, and that, as there were five weeks rent due, the landlord below had threatened to turn her into the street with her children on the next day, if it were not paid.
               Slipping a five dollar note in her hand, with a caution not to let her husband know that she had any money, he promised to send her a supply of good nourishing food, and then the two young men hurried away, with their feelings more deeply wrought upon by human misery than they had ever been in their lives.
               Other sections of the city were searched, revealing new scenes of wretchedness undreamed of, but with no better success, and night at last came without their having heard any news of Mr. Martin. Their efforts were continued after nightfall, and made in the neighborhood of Light street and Federal Hill.
               "Have you seen any thing of an old man lingering about any of the grog-shops in this neighborhood for a day or two past?" they inquired of a man standing at the corner of Light and York streets.
               "What, a drunken old fellow that exchanged all his good clothes for old ones?"
               "The same, I presume."
               "Yes, I saw him about here to-day.'
               
               "Do you know where he is?"
               "No. But I suppose he is sleeping off his liquor on the soft side of a board somewhere about here."
               "I don't understand you, sir," one of his questioners said.
               "Then I must explain, I presume. Gentlemen of your cloth don't know all that's going on in this world. You see, then, when people get so low that they can't afford to hire a bed to sleep in, we have the means of accommodating them with a good, dry floor in these parts, for one, two, or three cents a night, according to the quality of the accommodation."
               "Is it possible that human beings become so debased and wretched as to be driven to such things?"
               "Of course it is," replied the man, who was well pleased to hear himself talk, more especially as he had got hold of listeners to whom his news was news indeed.
               "How do such people live?" asked N—.
               "In various ways—but principally on grub."
               "Grub—grub? What is that, pray?"
               "Don't you know what grub is?"
               "No—certainly not."
               'Well, then, I will tell you. We have two or three pretty hard customers in this neighborhood, who fear nothing on this side of the gallows. They keep a kind of eating, drinking, and lodging houses, and stand prepared to buy almost any thing you choose to bring along, so that they can get it for about one-tenth of its real value. Well, they keep a parcel of dirty, lazy, drunken negro women and children about them, called 'grubbers.' One of these will start out for instance, in the morning, with her basket, and beg cold and broken victuals from door to door, until her basket is full. Then she will bring it in, and sell it for whiskey, and sometimes a little small change will be added, but usually the amount allowed for the 'grub' is passed to her credit, and she drinks it out, or gets tobacco with it, as she likes. The shopkeeper then selects the best pieces of bread, meat, or pie from the disgusting mass, and arranges them on clean plates. A meal off of these costs a fip. The next best is set out, at three cents a cut. What remains is thrown into a pot—meat, bread, fish, potatoes, pudding, and a dozen other things, and boiled down into a kind of hash. This is what is called 'grub,' and is sold at one cent a bowl. It is upon this, at a cent a meal, that drunkards of the lowest grade, white or black, live.'
               "Do many live thus?" was asked.
               "Not many here, thank heaven! But in Philadelphia and New York, I am told, that very many are thus kept from starvation."
               "But how do the wretches who live thus obtain liquor?"
               "In various ways. Some by 'grubbing,' some by stealing, some by doing little odd jobs, as piling wood, putting away coal, &c. Besides, liquor is very cheap. A good deal of poor whiskey can be got in some of these shops for a cent or two. And to meet even the very lowest want in drinking, as in eating, many shops save the water in which the glasses are rinsed, and by adding a little more liquor give it some strength, and call it 'all sorts.' A good stiff glass of this is sold for a cent."
               "Can you not direct us where we would be likely to find the old man we have alluded to?" they said, after listening to these painfully disgusting details. "You seem well acquainted with things in this neighborhood."
               "Perhaps I can," he replied. "At least I have no objection to try."
               He then led the way up an alley running parallel with York street, most of the houses in which seemed to be inhabited by blacks of a low order.
               "Let us go in here," their guide said, pausing before a dilapidated frame tenement; "this, I believe, is one of the sleeping dens."
               He opened the door with little ceremony, and they followed him, not without some fears, for they knew neither the individual conducting them, nor the place into which they were going. The room entered by them was dimly lighted by a single lamp, scarcely brighter than a taper, throwing its flickering rays over a dark mass of human beings, stretched upon the floor. Old and young black and white, male and female, all mingled there in strange revolting confusion.
               A few muttered curses met their intrusion as they proceeded to search for the old man among these. But he could not be found, and they retired, sick with the suffocating stench of the room, and half resolved to look no further.
               But a consciousness that it would never do to return home that night without finding him, if possible, made them resolve to persevere. They were more successful at the next place to which their conductor carried them. They found the old man sleeping with half a dozen others, in a room attached to the shop where he had exchanged his clothing. All efforts to awake him proved vain, a carriage was obtained, and his insensible body carried home. Too drunk to be able to walk, he had been assigned a place on the floor to sleep—price of lodgings were, of course, charged at the bar.
               When the whole family became fully conscious of the still lower depth of degradation into which the old man had sunk, and of his utter abandonment of all regard to feeling and propriety in his actions and appearance, words cannot express their pain, discouragement, and mortification. They could not see him going about in public places with old, worn, and soiled garments—and yet, now that he had begun the system of selling his clothes, they felt that they might be constantly buying him new ones, only to supply him with the means of procuring liquor, if they attempted to regard his appearance.
               At first, however, under the feeble hope that he would not again resort to that expedient for the purpose of supplying his thirst for strong drinks, a new suit of clothes was provided for him.
               "He certainly will not sell these," Anna said to her mother, on the afternoon of the day on which the new clothes had been furnished him, as the two sat conversing near a window at the house of the former.
               "I hope not, Anna; but I have my fears."
               "How can he do so!" Anna ejaculated, half musingly and then there ensued a troubled silence, for neither could suggest comfort or thought of hope to the other.
               Thus had each sat, for several minutes, their feelings painfully oppressed, when Mrs. Martin suddenly exclaimed, in a tone of agony,
               "Merciful Heavens! Can that be your father?"
               Anna instantly sprang to her feet, and strained her eyes eagerly in the direction indicated by her mother. Nearly opposite sat an old man on a cellar door, his clothes covered with dust and dirt, whose general appearance was that of Mr. Martin, only that the hat which covered his head was an old, worn, white hat—while his own was new and black, when he went out in the morning. Half-a-dozen boys, black and white, were gathered around, and were using all their juvenile ingenuity to annoy him. One would pull his hat down over his eyes, another would go behind and push him suddenly forward, while another less regardless, would gather up handfuls of dust and shower it over him.
               "It can't be father, ma," Anna said, trembling from head to foot, and growing deadly pale, "and yet how much it looks like him."
               "Your father's hat was a black one," Mrs. Martin said, still eagerly running her eyes over the wretched man who had attracted their attention.
               "But he may have sold it," pursued the daughter.
               At that moment the old man made an effort and succeeded in gaining his feet, at which his little crowd of tormentors set up a loud shout of derision, one pulling at his coat-tail, another pushing him forward, while another attempted to trip up his heels. He had only proceeded thus a few paces, when he fell forwards over the curbstone, and struck his head upon the rough pavement with a violent concussion. As he fell, Anna caught a glimpse of his face. It was, indeed, her own father. Quick as thought she ran down stairs, and sprang at a few bounds across the street. The energy of her manner at once caused the little group of boys to recede from him, as she stooped down, and with a strength superior to her natural ral physical powers, lifted him up and drew him upon the pavement.
               "For the love of Heaven, carry him across the street for me!" she then ejaculated, lifting her head, and looking into the faces of a few adult by-standers, with a wild, pale, agitated countenance.
               Her request was instantly obeyed, and her father taken into her house and laid upon a bed. The presence of a crowd pressing into her chamber, restored to Mrs. N— in some degree a more distinct consciousness of what was passing around her. Her request for all to retire had its effect; for a few saw the propriety of doing so, and the others followed their example. No external injury being apparent, Anna and her mother commenced by bathing his head and face with cold water, and soon found to their relief that he commenced breathing regularly, though he showed but few signs of returning consciousness. Feeling still troubled about him, the physician was called in, who assured them, on examining him, that rest was all he needed. The passage of a few hours verified his prediction.
               During six months longer old Mr. Martin continued to procure the means for obtaining the gratification of his appetite for liquor by selling or exchanging his clothes, until his children became utterly discouraged, and refused any longer to replace them, except where it became necessary to cover his nakedness. As a last resort, during the severe winter of 18—, he accepted an offer to cry oysters about the street, for as much liquor as he could drink. Six glasses an hour was the stipulation. The unfeeling wretch who thus engaged him, accompanied the cart, by the side of which the old man walked, crying oysters through the streets and alleys of a city, wherein a few years before he was accounted wealthy and respectable, and in which still resided his wife and five children, moving in a circle of education and refined intelligence. A few hours only had passed before Martin had to support himself by holding on to one of the cart shafts. In this situation he went by the store of one of his sons in-law, who took him away from his unfeeling employer, and had him conveyed home, half dead with cold and intoxication A violent attack of delirium tremens followed, from which he recovered after lingering a long time on the brink of the grave.
               The moderate drinker had now reached his lowest point. From one, two, and three glasses, his appetite had increased until it demanded at the rate of fifty and sixty glasses a day. As he slowly recovered his strength from this violent attack of illness, his family surrounded him with their last and almost despairing efforts to induce him to reform, by urging him to join the Washington Temperance Society. To their delight and surprise he at once agreed.
               I was present when he came up and subscribed his name to the pledge—it was on the night of my sixth visit to their meetings. His act, for his case was well known to nearly all, caused a new thrill of pleasure to awaken in the breast of each member—and nerved them all with a new determination to persevere.
               Often since then have I seen that old man in the street, at church, and in public assemblies with his daughters, whose attentions towards him were of the most affectionate character. It was a sight that always warmed my heart. Two years and more have passed away since his reformation, and he is yet true to his pledge, and all around him feel the utmost confidence that he will remain so. His untiring devotion in the cause of temperance is their guaranty, for there is no sphere of safety so strong as that of active usefulness.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            
            HISTORICAL, THEOLOGICAL, JUVENILE, AND MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS, PUBLISHED BY LEARY, GETZ & CO.,
            No. 224 North Second Street, Philadelphia,
            And offered to Booksellers. Southern and Western Merchants, News Agents, Pedlers, and Dealers generally, at Prices but little beyond the Cost of Manufacture.
            
               Rotteck's History of the World.
               —A General History of the World, from the Earliest Period to the Year 1840, embracing an account of the Origin, and Manners and Customs of all the Nations of the Earth; the Rise and Progress of Judaism, Paganism, and Christianity, &c. &c. By Charles Von Rotteck, LL. D. With a continuation, containing an account of the various Revolutions and Wars in all parts of the World, from 1840 to the present time. By Charles J. Peterson. Four volumes in one, making more than 1700 large octavo pages, illustrated with fifty highly-finished Historical Engravings. Price, $3.50; in two volumes, $4.00.
            
            
               Frost's Pictorial History of America.
               —Remarkable Events in the History of America, from the Discovery to the Present Time. By John Frost, LL. D. Embellished with 700 Engravings. This splendid works contains an account of the Conquest of Mexico by Cortes—The Conquest of Peru, by Pizarro and Almagro—The Conquest of Florida, by De Soto—The Discovery and Settlement of the United States and Canada—King Philip's War—The Seven Years' War—The American Revolution—The War of 1812—The War with the French Republic—The several Indian Wars—and the late War with Mexico Complete in one volume of 1600 large octavo pages, beautifully bound in arabesque, and gilt. Price, $3.50.
            
            
               
               Fleetwood's Life of Christ.
               —The Life of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ; with the Lives, Transactions, and Sufferings of his Holy Evangelists, Apostles, and other Primitive Martyrs; and a History of the Jews, brought down to the Destruction of Jerusalem. By the Rev. John Fleetwood, D. D. To which is added a continuation of the History of the Jews, to the present time; one large octavo volume, embellished with 25 fine Engravings, strongly and neatly bound. Price, $2.50. Elegantly bound in red morocco, gilt edges, $3.
               The same work is also published in the German language. Price, $2.50.
            
            
               Burder's History of all Religions.
               —From the Earliest Records to the Present Time. By William Burder, B. A. Greatly improved as a Book of Reference, by the insertion of a Full Account, Historical, Doctrinal, and Statistical, of the Principal Religious Denominations in the United States. By Rev. Joel Parker, D. D. Embellished with numerous elegant Engravings. One handsome large octavo volume of 700 pages, beautifully bound. Price, $3.00
            
            
               Book of Curiosities;
               Containing Ten Thousand Wonders and Curiosities of Nature and Art, and of Remarkable and Astonishing Places, Beings, Animals, Customs, Experiments, Phenomena, etc., of both Ancient and Modern Times, on all Parts of the Globe. By the Rev. I. Platts. First American Edition. Complete in one octavo volume of 952 pages, handsomely illustrated and strongly bound. Price only $2.50.
            
            
               Lives of Great and Celebrated Characters.
               —Lives of Great and Celebrated Characters, of all Ages and Countries; comprising Heroes, Conquerors, Statesmen, Authors, Artists, Extraordinary Humorists, Misers, Mountebanks, Kings and Queens, Jugglers, and other Curiosities of Human Nature, compiled from authentic materials. One large octavo volume of 800 pages, illustrated by several hundred Engravings, and beautifully bound. Price, $2
            
            
               Taylor's United States.
               —The Pictorial History of the United States. By C. B. Taylor. Embracing a General History from the Discovery of America to the Formation of the States, and from thence giving every historical minutia down to the present time. In one handsome octavo volume of over 600 pages. Bound in arabesque, and illustrated by one hundred Engravings. Price, only $2.
            
            
               Edmondson's Short Sermons,
               with an Introduction by Rev. J. P. Durbin, D. D., late President of Dickinson College, containing One Hundred and Forty Sermons on important subjects.
               "I believe this volume will be a fountain of light and peace to thousands; and may God follow it with his blessing."—J. P. Durbin. Price in substantial Library Binding, $2; in cloth, $1.50.
            
            
               Memoirs of Rev. George Whitefield,
               by Rev. John Gillies, D. D., with an Introduction by Prof. C. E. Stowe, D. D., of Andover, Mass. A new and greatly enlarged edition, comprising his entire Life, and illustrated with a finely engraved steel Portrait. Complete in one duodecimo volume, bound in embossed cloth. Price $1.00.
               This work is bound to match with, and is a necessary Companion to "Stevens's History of Methodism."
            
            
               Frost's Lives of Eminent Christians.
               —This work contains the Lives of One Hundred and Twenty-five Persons, of both sexes, remarkable for their Christian Piety and Philanthropic deeds—and as there is nothing in it of a Sectarian character, it is a suitable book for persons of every persuasion to read—a book that no Family should be without. The work contains 672 octavo pages, and is handsomely bound, and illustrated with numerous Portraits. Price, $2.50. Elegantly bound in red morocco, gilt edges, $3.
            
            
               Illustrated Christian Martyrology;
               Or, Sufferings of Early Christians. Being an Authentic and General Historical Account of the Principal Persecutions against the Church of Christ, in Different Parts of the World. Compiled from the latest sources, by Rev. C. Sparry. Illustrated with twenty-four fine Engravings, and handsomely bound in arabesque, gilt. Price, $1.50. In red morocco, full gilt sides and back, and gilt edges, $2.
            
            
               Frost's Pictorial Life of Washington.
               —Pictorial Life of George Washington: embracing a Complete History of the Seven Years' War; the Revolutionary War; the Formation of the Federal Constitution, and the Administration of Washington. By J. Frost, LL. D. One elegant large octavo volume, with upward of one hundred Engravings, by Croome and Devereux. Price, $3, handsomely bound.
               "A Book that ought to be in every Public and Private Library in the United States."
            
            
               
               Evans' Sermons.
               —Sermons of Christmas Evans, a new Translation from the Welsh, with a Memoir and Portraiture of the Author. By Rev. Joseph Cross. A large octavo volume, printed on fine paper, with two elegant Steel Plates, and bound in a durable and handsome style. Price, $1.50.
            
            
               Life and Sermons of Rev. George Whitefield.
               —This work consists of a Memoir of this distinguished minister, with his Sermons and Miscellaneous Writings. Mr. Whitefield was one of the most devoted preachers of the Gospel, and contemporary with Wesley and others, bright and shining lights in Christ's vineyard. His life is full of valuable examples to the professing Christian, and his sermons will now be read with joyful delight by those who had not the privilege of hearing them from his own lips. Complete in one octavo volume of about 650 pages, and embellished with a Steel Portrait, and several Engravings. Bound in a handsome and durable style. Price only $2.50.
            
            
               Dr. Buchan's Family Physician.
               —Domestic Medicine; or a Treatise on the Prevention and Cure of Diseases, by Regimen and Simple Medicines. With the latest Corrections and Improvements, and full Directions in regard to Air, Exercise, Bathing, Clothing, Sleep, Diet, &c., and the general management of the Diseases of Women and Children. To which is annexed a Complete Family Dispensatory, for the use of Private Practitioners. By William Buchan, M. D. With considerable Additions and Corrections, by an American Physician. One handsome large octavo volume, strongly bound, and illustrated with a fine Portrait of Dr. Buchan. Price. $2.50.
            
            
               Chambers' Information for the People.
               —Information for the People. A Popular Encyclopedia. By William and Robert Chambers. With numerous additions, and more than six hundred Engravings. Complete in two imperial octavo volumes, of 850 pages each. Price, handsomely bound in sheep, only $5
            
            
               Josephus' Works.
               —The Works of Flavius Josephus, containing twenty books of the Jewish Antiquities, seven books of the Jewish War, and the Life of Josephus, written by himself. Translated from the original Greek, according to Havercamp's accurate edition, together with Explanatory Notes and Observations. By the late William Whiston, A. M. Complete in one large octavo volume, embellished with elegant Engravings. Neatly and strongly bound. Price, $2.50.
            
            
               LEARY, GETZ & CO.'S LARGE TYPE EDITION OF THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS:
               TO WHICH IS ADDED TRAVELS OF THE UNGODLY.
               
                  Not in any other Edition in this Country.
                  Price in neat Cloth, gilt back, $2.00
                  do. do. Arabesque, gilt back, 2.50
                  do. do. Red Morocco, gilt edges, sides & backs, 3.00
                  do. do. Super Antique, 5.00
               
               
                  PILGRIM'S PROGRESS.
                  A new octavo Pictorial Edition of Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, from this world to that which is to come; delivered under the similitude of a Dream. To which is added THE TRAVELS OF THE UNGODLY; or, The Life and Death of Mr. Badman, contained in no other edition. Also, containing a LIFE OF BUNYAN, and with Scott's numerous and full explanatory notes. Printed with very large type, being the most readable edition published in the United States. Illustrated with fine Engravings.
               
            
            
               Moore's History of the Indian Wars.
               —The Indian Wars of the United States, from the Discovery to the Present Time. With accounts of the Origin, Manners, Superstitions, &c. of the Aborigines. By Wm. V. Moore. An elegant book, illustrated with numerous plain and eight highly colored Engravings. One volume octavo, cloth extra. Price $2.00
            
            
               The Life and Speeches of Henry Clay;
               with a Portrait and a View of the Birthplace of Mr. Clay. The Biography of Mr. Clay in this work comprises about 200 pages, and his Speeches about 1100 pages, including his celebrated Speeches on the Compromise Bill. In one handsome large octavo volume of 1300 pages, handsomely bound. Price only $3.00
            
            
               The Perpetual Keepsake:
               Being the New Testament, very beautifully got up, printed on fine white paper, large type, and profusely illustrated by Engravings, originally designed and engraved expressly for this magnificent work by W. Croome and J. H. Brightly. "This work is designed expressly for a Presentation Book, and what could be more suitable to give, or more acceptable to the receiver, than a beautiful edition of the Sacred Word?" Price only $2.50.
            
            
               
               Sturm's Reflections.
               —Reflections on the Works of God, and His Providence throughout all Nature. In one octavo volume of nearly 500 pages, neatly bound Price, $1.50.
            
            
               Johnson and Walker's Pronouncing Dictionary.
               —In one large royal octavo volume of 1184 pages, double columns, neatly and strongly bound in sheep. Price only $2.50.
            
            
               St. Pierre's Studies of Nature.
               —Translated by Henry Hunter D. D. In one duodecimo volume, neatly bound Price, $1.
               Dr. Hunter observes in his preface: "St. Pierre has enabled me to contemplate the Universe with other eyes—has furnished new arguments to combat Atheism—has established beyond the power of contradiction, the doctrine of a Universal Providence—has excited a warmer interest in favor of suffering humanity, and has disclosed sources unknown of intellectual enjoyment."
            
            
               Life of Christ,
               to which is added the Lives and Sufferings of his Holy Evangelists and Apostles, by Rev. John Fleetwood, D. D., with an Introduction by Prof. S. Seager. One volume duodecimo of 460 pages, with twelve handsome Illustrations, Price, $1.
               "This edition is slightly abridged from the celebrated work of Dr. Fleetwood, of which we publish a full and unabridged edition."
            
            
               The Closing Scene;
               Or, Christianity and Infidelity Contrasted, in the Last Hours of Remarkable Persons. By the Rev. Erskine Neale, A. M. One handsome duodecimo volume, With two handsome Engravings representing the Christian's and the Infidel's Death-beds. Price, $1.
            
            
               Paul and Virginia.
               From the French of Bernadine de St. Pierre. Illustrated with Engravings. ELIZABETH; or, The Exiles of Siberia. By Madame Cottin. Two vols. in one., 18mo., cloth, gilt. Price 50 cents.
            
            
               Fanny Dale; or, A Year after Marriage.
               By T. S. Arthur. THE YOUNG MUSIC TEACHER, and other Tales. By T. S. Arthur. Two vols. in one, 18mo., cloth, gilt. Price 50 cents.
            
            
               The Lady at Home; or, Leaves from the Every-Day Book of an American Woman.
               By T. S. Arthur. ELIZABETH; or, The Exiles of Siberia. By Mad. Cottin. Two vols. in one, 18mo., cloth, gilt. Price 50 cts.
            
            
               The Christian's Legacy;
               Or, Bible Directory, containing a compendium of the Holy Bible; designed for making the reading and study of the Scriptures more easy, especially to those who are young in years, or who have but few helps, or but little time for attending to that duty. The author has selected some three hundred of the most gracious promises of the Scriptures, upon each of which he has made some plain practical remarks suitable to the subject of each promise; and has thus rendered their meaning more intelligible to the general reader, and of seemingly more value to the sincere searcher after truth. The plan is new, and the arrangement so simple, that no one, not even a child, may mistake it; but may, without knowing a word of the Bible beforehand, find whatever the Scriptures contain on any subject, as readily as though he knew the whole Bible by heart. By Rev. William Jackson. One volume, duodecimo, 420 pages, with Portrait of Author. Price only $1.
            
            
               Tegg's Book of Knowledge.
               —The Young Man's Book of Knowledge: containing a Familiar View of the Importance of Religion, the Works of Nature, Logic, Eloquence, the Passions, Matter and Motion, Magnetism, Mechanical Powers, Optics, Acoustics, Electricity, Galvanism, Geometry, Geography, Astronomy, Chronology, History, &c. &c. By Thomas Tegg. To which is added, an Epitome of American History, and appropriate Reflections on the Prosperity, Influence, and Importance of the United States. Illustrated with five Engravings. One large volume duodecimo, neatly bound. Price, $1.
            
            
               The Glory of America:
               comprising Memoirs of the Lives and Glorious Exploits of some of the most Distinguished Officers engaged in the Revolutionary and Late Wars with Great Britain; among which may be found Andrew Jackson, Richard M. Johnson, Stephen Decatur, William H. Allen, Winfield Scott, George Croghan, Charles Lee, Nicholas Biddle, Hugh Mercer, David Porter, Zebulon M. Pike, James Lawrence, William Bainbridge, Thomas Macdonough, James Biddle, Alexander Macomb, Oliver Hazard Perry, Isaac Hull, Richard Montgomery, Baron de Kalb, Anthony Wayne, Nathaniel Greene, and Thomas Truxton. By R. Thomas, A. M. Illustrated with numerous Engravings. One large volume, duodecimo, 576 pages, Price, $1
            
            
               Zimmerman on Solitude.
               —With the Life of the Author. This is a neat edition of this deservedly popular book. 18mo, cloth, gilt, with a Portrait of Zimmerman. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               
               Old Christianity against Papal Novelties;
               including a Review of Dr. Milner's End of Controversy. By Gideon Ouseley. In one large duodecimo volume, 406 pages, with an Engraved Frontispiece Price only $1.00.
               "A book that should be in the hands of every American Christian."
            
            
               The Historical Cabinet,
               containing authentic Accounts of many Remarkable and Interesting Events which have taken place in Modern Times. Carefully collected and compiled from various sources, and not to be found in any one work heretofore published. One large duodecimo volume, of over 500 pages, illustrated with fifty Engravings, Price only $1
            
            
               The Family Sabbath-Day Miscellany,
               comprising over Three Hundred Religious Tales and Anecdotes, Original and Select, with occasional Reflections, adapted to the use of Families on the Lord's Day. By C. A. Goodrich. One large duodecimo volume of 540 pages, numerous Engravings, Price only. $1.
               "No one will even regret the purchase of this book."
            
            
               Knapp's Female Biography,
               containing short Biographies of Distinguished Women, in different Nations and Ages. By Samuel L. Knapp. In one handsome duodecimo volume, beautifully bound, and illustrated with elegant Engravings. Price only $1.
            
            
               Farmers' Barn Book.
               —Farmers' Barn Book. By Clater, Youatt, Skinner, and Mills. Containing the Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment of all the Diseases incident to Oxen, Sheep, and Swine, the Anatomy and Physiology of Neat Cattle, with an Essay on the Use of Oxen and the Breed of Sheep; Stable Management, Treatment of the Diseases of Horses; Plain and Practical Directions in the Choice and Purchase of Horses, with Directions how to ascertain the good Qualities, and detect the Faults of Carriage, Cart, and Saddle Horses. One large duodecimo volume, neatly and strongly bound, and illustrated with numerous Engravings. Price only $1
            
            
               The Arabian Nights' Entertainments, Or the Thousand-and-One Nights.
               A new Edition, Translated and Arranged for Family Reading. One volume duodecimo, nearly one hundred Engravings, arabesque, gilt. Price only $1.
            
            
               The True Republican.
               —The True Republican: containing the Inaugural Addresses and the First Annual Addresses and Messages of all the Presidents of the United States. The Declaration of Independence, and the Constitution of the United States, with the Amendments, and the Signers' Names. Also, the Constitution of the most important States in the Union; and the Farewell Addresses of Washington and Jackson. Embellished with elegant Portraits of all the Presidents, engraved on steel, as large as the size of the page will admit, and a View of the Capitol of the United States. In one handsome duodecimo volume, arabesque, gilt. Price only $1.25.
            
            
               Simms' Life of Gen. Nathaniel Greene,
               Major-General in the Army of the Revolution; with interesting and authentic accounts of some of the most important Events in the Revolutionary Struggle. Edited by W. Gilmore Simms. In one handsome duodecimo volume, beautifully illustrated, arabesque, gilt. Price only $1.25.
            
            
               Pilgrim's Progress.
               —A New Pictorial Edition of Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress from this world to that which is to come: delivered under the similitude of a Dream. By John Bunyan. To which is added a Life of the Author, with numerous full and explanatory Notes. Beautifully illustrated by Engravings, from Original Designs by Croome, Darley and others, engraved by Gihon. In one handsome duodecimo volume. Price, $1
            
            
               Dick's Philosophy of a Future State.
               —This is one of the most interesting of all Dr. Dick's works. 18mo, cloth gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Baxter's Saints' Everlasting Rest;
               Or, a Treatise of the Blessed State of the Saints in their enjoyment of God in Heaven. 18mo, cloth, gilt, with a Portrait of the Author. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               History of the Devil,
               Containing his Origin; a State of his Circumstances; his Conduct, Public and Private; the various turns of his affairs from Adam down to the Present Time; the various Methods he takes to Converse with Mankind; with the manner of his making Witches, Wizards and Conjurers; and how they sell their souls to him, &c. &c. The whole interspersed with many of the Devil's Adventures, to which is added a Description of his Dwelling, called Hell. By De Foe, author of "Robinson Crusoe." One volume duodecimo. cloth. Price only $1.
            
            
               
               Cook and Confectioner.
               —The Complete Cook. Plain and Practical Directions for Cooking and Housekeeping, with upwards of 700 Receipts, consisting of Directions for the choice of Meat and Poultry, preparations for Cooking, making of Broths and Soups, Boiling, Roasting, Baking, and Frying of Meats, Fish, &c.; Seasoning, Colorings, Cooking Vegetables; Preparing Salads, Clarifying; Making of Pastry, Puddings, Gruels, Gravies, &c., and with General Directions for Making Wines. With Additions and Alterations, by J. M. Sanderson. Also, the Complete Confectioner, Pastry Cook and Baker. Plain and Practical Directions for making Confectionery and Pastry, and for Baking, with 500 Receipts: consisting of Directions for Making all sorts of Preserves, Sugar-boiling, Comfits, Lozenges, Ornamental Cakes, Ices, Liquors, Gum Paste Ornaments, Syrups, Jellies, Marmalades, Bread-baking, Artificial Yeasts, Fancy Biscuits, Cakes, Rolls, Muffins, Tarts, Pies, &c., with Additions and Alterations. By Parkinson, Practical Confectioner. In one handsome duodecimo volume, beautifully and strongly bound. Price only $1.00.
            
            
               Devil on Two Sticks.
               Complete in one vol., 18mo., cloth. Price 50 cents.
            
            
               Mrs. Barwell's Advice to Mothers.
               —Advice to Mothers on the Treatment of Infants, with Directions for Self-Management before, during, and after Pregnancy. Addressed to Mothers and Nurses. By Mrs. Barwell. Revised, Enlarged, and Adapted to the Habits and Climate in the United States. By a Physician of New York, under the approval and recommendation of Dr. Valentine Mott. One volume duodecimo, cloth. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Willison's Afflicted Man's Companion.
               A new Edition, Revised and Improved, in one volume 18mo, cloth, gilt, with a handsome Portrait of the Author. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Doddridge's Rise and Progress of Religion in the Soul.
               Illustrated in a Course of Practical Addresses, with a Sermon on the Care of the Soul. A neat 18mo volume, with a Portrait of the Author. Bound in cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Dialogues of Devils,
               on the Many Vices which abound in the Civil and Religious World. By the Rev. John MacGowan. One volume 18mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Young's Night Thoughts.
               —18mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               The Pilgrim's Progress
               from this World to that which is to Come. Delivered under the Similitude of a Dream. By John Bunyan. With numerous Explanatory Notes, and a Memoir of the Author, handsomely illustrated with elegant Engravings. 18mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Cobbett's Sermons.
               —Thirteen Sermons on Hypocrisy and Cruelty, Drunkenness, Bribery, the Rights of the Poor, Unjust Judges, the Sluggard, Murder, Gaming, Public Robbery, the Unnatural Mother, Forbidding Marriage, Parsons and Tithes, Good Friday. To which is added, an Address to the Working People. By Wm. Cobbett. One volume 18mo, cloth, gilt. 50 cents.
            
            
               Combe on the Constitution of Man.
               —The Constitution of Man, considered in Relation to External Objects. By George Combe. One volume 18mo, cloth, gilt. A New and Beautiful Edition of this Valuable and Popular Work. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               The Vicar of Wakefield.
               —A Tale. To which is affixed The Deserted Village. By Oliver Goldsmith, M. D. 18mo, cloth, gilt, with a Portrait of the Author. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Æsop's Fables.
               —Select Fables from Æsop and others. The best and most beautifully illustrated Book of Fables published in the United States. One volume 18mo, with two hundred fine Engravings, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               The Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life.
               By Professor Wilson. A neat and beautiful Edition of a highly interesting and popular work. One handsome 18mo volume, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Arthur's Six Nights with the Washingtonians.
               —These Tales are told in Arthur's best style, and are much admired by all who read them. Illustrated with Cruikshank's Eight Plates of the Bottle, which are of themselves worth the cost of the book. 18mo, cloth, gilt, 277 pages. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Cobbett's Advice to Young Men.
               —Advice to Young Men on the Duties of Life, in a Series of Letters addressed to a Youth, a Bachelor, a Lover, a Husband, a Citizen, or a Subject. By William Cobbett. One volume 18mo, cloth, gilt, Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               
               The Pastor's Wife.
               —A Memoir of Mrs. Sherman, of Surrey Chapel, London. Edited by her husband, the Rev. James Sherman, Pastor of Surrey Chapel. Unabridged Edition, 18mo, cloth. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Drew on the Immortality of the Soul.
               —An Original Essay on the Immateriality and Immortality of the Human Soul; founded solely on Physical and Rational Principles. By Samuel Drew, A. M. New Edition. 18mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Alonzo and Melissa;
               or, The Unfeeling Father. A Tale Founded on Fact. With one exception, and that is "Charlotte Temple," Alonzo and Melissa has probably been read more than any other Tale ever published in the United States. 18mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Robinson Crusoe.
               —The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, with an Account of his Deliverance after a Residence of 28 Years on an Uninhabited Island. This is a very neat 18mo edition of the work, bound handsomely in gilt, cloth, and is illustrated with eight fine Engravings. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Bunyan's Minor Works:
               containing Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners; Heart's Ease in Heart Trouble; The World to Come, or Visions of Heaven and Hell; and The Barren Fig-Tree, or the Doom and Downfall of the Fruitless Professor. Complete in one beautiful 32mo volume, bound in cloth, gilt, with a Portrait of John Bunyan. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Love and Romance;
               or, Charlotte and Lucy Temple. Two volumes in one. "Susannah Rowson, the authoress, has by her interesting style, drawn more tears (for who has not shed tears over Charlotte Temple) than any other authoress or author of modern times— 
                     
                        "She was her parents' only joy;
                        They had but one—one darling child."
                     
                  
               
               In one neat volume 18mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Life of Wellington.
               —The Life and Times of the Duke of Wellington, embracing the whole military career of this illustrious warrior, and a full account of the memorable Battle of Waterloo. Illustrated with forty-one Engravings. One large 18mo volume, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Tom Thumb.
               —The Life and Adventures of Tom Thumb, with 16 fine Engravings, 16mo, cloth, gilt, Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               The Ladies' Guide in Needlework.
               —This beautiful and useful little work contains instructions in Embroidery on Silk, Velvet, Lace, Merino, etc., and in Applique; all varieties of Canvas-Work; Millinery and Mantua-Making, and all branches of Plain Sewing; with particular directions for cutting out Dresses etc.; Knitting, Netting, and Crotchet Work, containing the newest and most fashionable patterns. In one neat 18mo volume, with numerous Engravings, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               The American Joe Miller;
               or, The Jester's Own Book. Being a Choice Collection of Anecdotes and Witticisms. 18mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Life of the Notorious Stephen Burroughs.
               —Containing many Incidents in the Life of this wonderful man, never before published. Newly corrected and revised edition. 18mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               The Life and Essays of Dr. Franklin.
               —Written by Himself. A book that every young man in the United States should read. One volume 18mo, with numerous Plates, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Original Poems for Infant Minds.
               —By the Taylor Family. One volume 18mo, cloth, gilt. 50 cents.
            
            
               The Course of Time.
               —By Robert Pollok, A. M., with an enlarged Index, and an Analysis prefixed to each book. One volume 18mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               The New American Pocket Farrier
               and Farmer's Guide in the Choice and Management of Horses, Neat Cattle, Sheep, and Swine; including a Description of their Internal Structure—their Digestive System; the Diseases to which they are liable, with their Causes, Symptoms, and most approved Methods of Cure. From the writings of Youatt, Lawrence, Hines, White, Clater, and others. To which is added a variety of Agricultural and Miscellaneous Receipts. 18mo, cloth gilt. 50 cents.
            
            
               Dr. Dodd's Lectures to Young Men.
               —Discourses to Young Men. Illustrated by numerous highly interesting Anecdotes. A neat 24mo volume, cloth, with Plates. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               The Camp-Meeting Chorister;
               or, a Collection of Hymns and Spiritual Songs, for the pious of all Denominations, to be sung at Camp-Meetings, during Revivals of Religion, and other occasions. 32mo, sheep. Price, 25 cents.
            
            
               
               Stories of the Wars of 1812 and with Mexico.
               —A beautiful Juvenile Book, commemorative of those Important Events in the History of our Country. Elegantly illustrated. 16mo, cloth, gilt. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               Thinks-I-to-Myself:
               A Serio-Ludicro, Tragico-Comico Tale. Written by "Thinks-I-to-Myself, Who!" Price, 25 cents.
            
            
               Every Man his own Cattle Doctor.
               —Containing a Treatise on the Diseases of Horses, Cattle, Dogs, Sheep, and Swine, with their Causes, Symptoms, and Cure. 18mo, boards. Price, 15 cents.
            
            
               Every Man his own Farrier.
               —Containing ten minutes advice how to buy a horse; to which is added, how to use your horse at home, or on a journey, and what remedies are proper for all diseases to which he is liable 18mo., boards. Price, 15 cents.
            
            
               Charlotte Temple.
               —A Tale of Truth, by Mrs. Rowson. 18mo, boards. Price, 15 cents.
            
            
               Lucy Temple.
               —A Sequel to Charlotte Temple. 18mo, boards. Price, 15 cents.
            
            
               Jack Lawrence, the Sailor Boy.
               —By the author of Jack Halyard. One volume 18mo, boards. Price, 15 cents.
            
            
               The Laughing Philosopher;
               or, Book of Fun 18mo, boards. Price, 15 cents.
            
            
               Hocus Pocus;
               or, The Whole Art of Legerdemain, or Sleight-of-Hand explained. 18mo, boards. Price, 15 cents.
            
            
               The Ready Reckoner, and Coin Book.
               The Ready Reckoner in Dollars and Cents. A very useful Book for Traders not well versed in Arithmetic. Price, 15 cents.
            
            
               Etiquette Letter-Writer.
               —Being the Complete Art of Fashionable Correspondence. 18mo, boards. Price, 15 cents.
            
            
               Cook's Voyages.
               —A Narrative of the Voyages around the World, performed by Captain James Cook. With an Account of his Life, during the previous and intervening periods. By A. Kippis. D. D., F. R. S., and S. A. Illustrated with several Engravings. Two volume in one, 32mo, roan gilt binding. Price, 75 cents.
            
         
         
            STANDARD ROMANCES.
            
               Arabian Nights' Entertainments:
               consisting of One-Thousand-and-One Stories, told by the Sultaness of the Indies, to divert the Sultan from the execution of a bloody vow he had made to marry a lady every day, and have her put to death next morning, to avenge himself for the disloyalty of his first Sultaness. Embellished with seventy Engravings. Two volumes in one, 32mo, roan, gilt binding. Price, 75 cents.
            
            
               Cottage on the Cliff.
               —The Cottage on the Cliff: a beautiful Sea-side Story. By Catharine G. Ward. One thick 32mo volume of 704 pages, arabesque, gilt. 75 cents.
            
            
               The Scottish Chiefs.
               —By Miss Jane Porter, author of "Thaddeus of Warsaw," etc. Three volumes in one, 32mo, roan binding, with Plates. Price, 75 cents. This is the best and neatest edition now published of this popular and entertaining romance.
            
            
               Children of the Abbey.
               —By Regina Maria Roche. Three volumes in one, 32mo, roan binding, with a steel Plate. The neatest and best edition published. 75 cents.
            
            
               Robinson Crusoe.
               —A neat and complete edition, in one extra thick 32mo volume, in embossed gilt binding, and illustrated with fine Engravings. Price, 75 cents.
            
            
               The Mysteries of Udolpho:
               A Romance. By Ann Ratcliffe. Three volumes in one of 620 pages, 32mo, neat binding. Price, 75 cents. The best and most complete edition published.
            
            
               Gil Blas.
               —The Adventures of Gil Blas, of Santillane. Translated from the French of Monsieur le Sage, by Tobias Smollett, M. D. Four volumes in one of 990 pages, 32mo, roan binding. The neatest and best edition published. Price, 75 cents.
            
            
               Don Quixote.
               —The Life and Exploits of Don Quixote. Translated from the Spanish of Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra, by Charles Jarves. Four volumes in one of 1040 pages, 32mo, neat binding. Price, 75 cents.
            
            
               The Romance of the Forest.
               —By Mrs. Radcliffe. Two volumes in one, 32mo, roan gilt binding. The best edition published of this Romance. Price, 50 cents.
            
            
               The Life and Adventures of Peter Wilkins.
               —Containing an Account of his Visit to the Flying Islanders. A neat 32mo volume, roan gilt. Price, 25 cts
            
         
         
            
            POPULAR SCHOOL BOOKS.
            
               Booth's New Pictorial United States.
               —For Primary Schools. 244 pages 18mo, neatly bound, with Questions. Price, 37½ cents. This is the best History of the United States now published for the use of Primary Schools.
            
            
               The Central School Reader.
               —Compiled by the Female Association of Friends for the Improvement of Juvenile Books. One of the best books published for Select Schools and Academies. 12mo. Price, 75 cents.
            
            
               Wilmsen's Reader;
               or, The Children's Friend. One hundred and sixtieth Edition. One of the best School Books ever published for Children between the ages of eight and twelve years. 12mo. Price, 62½ cents.
            
            
               White's Elements of Universal History.
               With Additions and Questions. By John S. Hart. 12mo, arabesque backs. Price, $1.
            
            
               Public School Singing Book.
               —By A. F. Cox. 32mo, boards. Price, 12½ cents.
            
            
               Murray's English Reader.
               —12mo, sheep. Price, 25 cents.
            
            
               Murray's Introduction.
               —12mo, boards. Price, 12½ cents.
            
            
               Chapin's New Classical Spelling Book.
               —12mo, boards. Price, 12½ cents.
            
            
               The History of Ancient and Modern Greece.
               —Edited by John Frost, LL. D. Sheep. Price, $1.50.
            
            
               Kelley's New Juvenile Primer.
               —Price, 3 cts
            
            
               Testament.
               —18mo, sheep. A good school edition. Price, 25 cents.
            
            
               Cobbett's French Grammar.
               —18mo, sheep. Price, 62½ cents.
            
            
               Cobbett's English Grammar.
               —18mo, sheep. Price, 50 cents.
            
         
         
            VALUABLE HISTORICAL, THEOLOGICAL, AND MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS,
            PUBLISHED BY LEARY, GETZ & CO.,
            No. 224 North Second Street, PHILADELPHIA.
            Any Book in this Catalogue will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the Retail Price in money or in postage stamps.
            Persons desiring to act as Agents for the sale of these Books, can receive all necessary information relating to the business by addressing as above.
            
               
               Pilgrim's Progress.
               —A new Pictorial Edition. With a life of the Author, with Scott's full and explanatory Notes. Illustrated by fine Engravings.
               
                  12mo., cloth, gilt. (very large type,) 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 2.00
               
            
            
               The Family Sabbath Day Miscellany.
               —Comprising over three hundred Religious Tales and Anecdotes, original and select, with occasional Reflections, for the use of Families on the Lord's Day. By C. A. Goodrich.
               
                  12mo., Numerous Engravings, cloth, gilt, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 2.00
               
            
            
               Life of Christ,
               to which is added the Lives and Sufferings of his Holy Evangelists and Apostles. By Rev. John Fleetwood, D. D., with an Introduction by Prof. S. Seager.
               
                  12mo., 460 pages, numerous Engravings, cloth, gilt, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 2.00
               
            
            
               The Christian's Legacy
               —or, Bible Directory. By Rev. Wm. Jackson; with an appendix containing a compendium of the Holy Bible; designed for making the reading and study of the Scriptures more easy,
               
                  12mo., twenty-five full page engravings, cloth, gilt, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 2.00
               
            
            
               Knapp's Female Biography
               —Containing short Biographies of Distinguished Women, in different Nations and Ages. By S. L. Knapp.
               
                  Illustrated with Elegant Engravings, 12mo, cloth, gilt, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 2.00
               
            
            
               The Historical Cabinet
               —Containing authentic Accounts of many Remarkable and Interesting Events which have taken place in modern times. Carefully Collected and Compiled from various sources, and not to be found in any one work heretofore published. 12mo, over 500 pages.
               
                  Illustrated with fifty Engravings, cloth, gilt, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 2.00
               
            
            
               The Young Man's Book of Knowledge
               —Containing a Familiar view of the Importance of Religion, the Works of Nature, Logic, Eloquence, the Passions, Matter and Motion, Magnetism, Mechanical Powers, Hydrostatics, Hydraulics, Optics, Acoustics, Electricity, Galvanism, Geometry, Geography, Astronomy, Chronology, History, &c., &c. By Thomas Tegg. To which is added an Epitome of American History, and appropriate Reflections on the Prosperity, Influence and Importance of the United States.
               
                  Illustrated with fine Engravings, cloth, gilt, 12mo, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
               
            
            
               The Arabian Nights' Entertainments;
               or, the Thousand and one Nights. A new edition, translated and arranged for Family Reading.
               
                  12mo, nearly one hundred Engravings, cloth, gilt, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
               
            
            
               The Glory of America
               —Comprising Memoirs of the Lives and Glorious Exploits of some of the most Distinguished Officers engaged in the Revolutionary and Late Wars with Great Britain.
               
                  Illustrated with numerous Engravings, cloth, gilt, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
               
            
            
               Old Christianity against Papal Novelties;
               including a Review of Dr. Milner's end of Controversy. By Gideon Ouseley.
               
                  In one large duodecimo volume, 406 pp., cloth, gilt. "A Book that should be in the hands of every American Christian," 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
               
            
            
               The Closing Scene;
               or, Christianity and Infidelity Contrasted, in the Last Hours of Remarkable Persons. By Rev. Erskine Neale, A. M. One handsome duodecimo volume, cloth, gilt.
               
                  With two handsome Engravings representing the Christian's and the Infidel's Death-beds,' 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
               
            
            
               St. Pierre's Studies of Nature
               —Translated by Henry Hunter, D. D., who observes in his preface:—"St. Pierre has enabled me to contemplate the Universe with other eyes—has furnished new arguments to combat Atheism—has established beyond the power of contradiction, the doctrine of a Universal Providence—has excited a warmer interest in favour of suffering humanity, and has disclosed sources unknown of intellectual enjoyment,"
               
                  cloth, gilt, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
               
            
            
               Combe on the Constitution of Man.
               —The Constitution of Man considered in relation to external objects, by George Combe. A reprint from the late Edinburgh Edition. Complete in 1 volume, 12mo., cloth, gilt, 1.00
            
            
               The Complete Cook and Confectioner
               —Containing seven hundred plain and practical receipts in Cooking, Baking, Boiling, Roasting and Frying Fish, Meats, Seasoning, Cooking Vegetables, Preparing Salads, Clarifying, Making of Pastry, Puddings, Gruels, Gravies, &c. Also, five hundred plain and practical receipts in Confectionery, for making all kinds of Cakes, Candies, Jellies, Preserves, Sugar Boiling, Ice Creams, every description of Plain and Ornamental Cakes, Ornaments, Syrups, Artificial Yeasts, Fancy Biscuits, Rolls, Muffins, Tarts, Pies, &c. By Sanderson and Parkinson. 12mo., cloth, gilt, 1.00
            
            
               Simms' Life of General Nathanael Greene
               —Major General in the Army of the Revolution; with interesting and Authentic Accounts of some of the most Important Events in the Revolutionary Struggle. By W. Gilmore Simms. In one handsome 12mo. volume, beautifully illustrated by colored Engravings. Arabesque, gilt, 1.25
            
            
               History of the Devil.
               —Containing his Origin; a State of his Circumstances: his Conduct, Public and Private: the various turns of his affairs from Adam down to the present time; the various methods he takes to converse with Mankind; with the manner of his making Witches, Wizards and Conjurers; and how they sell their souls to him, &c., &c. The whole interspersed with many of the Devil's Adventures, to which is added a description of his Dwelling, called Hell. By De Foe, author of "Robinson Crusoe." One volume, 12mo., cloth, 1.00
            
            
               
               Pilgrim's Progress.
               —A new Octavo Pictorial edition. To which is added The Travels of the Ungodly, or the Life and Death of Mr. Badman, contained in no other edition. Also containing a Life of Bunyan, and Scott's numerous and full explanatory notes. Very large type, being the most readable edition published in the United States.
               
                  Illustrated with fine engravings, and bound in neat plain cloth, 2.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 2.50
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 3.00
                  Do do super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Fleetwood's Life of Christ,
               with the Lives, Transactions and Sufferings of his Holy Evangelists, Apostles and other Primitive Martyrs: and a History of the Jews, brought down to the destruction of Jerusalem. By the Rev. John Fleetwood, D. D. To which is added a continuation of the History of the Jews to the present time.
               
                  One large octavo volume, embellished with twenty-five fine coloured Engravings, strongly and neatly bound, 2.50
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 3.00
                  Do do super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Burder's History of all Religions.
               —From the Earliest Records to the Present Time. By Wm. Burder, B. A. Greatly improved as a Book of Reference, by the insertion of a Full Account, Historical, Doctrinal, and Statistical, of the Principal Religious Denominations of the United States. By the Rev. Joel Parker, D. D. Embellished with numerous elegant Engravings.
               
                  One large octavo volume, of 700 pages, beautifully bound, in embossed morocco, 3.00
                  Do do super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Frost's Lives of Eminent Christians.
               —This Work contains the Lives of One Hundred and Twenty-five Persons, of both sexes, remarkable for their Piety and Philanthropic Deeds; illustrated with numerous Portraits.
               
                  One volume 8vo. arabesque, 2.50
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 3.00
                  Do do super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               The Perpetual Keepsake;
               being the New Testament very beautifully printed on fine white paper, large type, and profusely illustrated by Engravings, originally designed and engraved expressly for this magnificent work, by W. Croome and J. H. Brighty. Intended expressly for a Presentation Book.
               
                  Beautifully bound in red morocco, full gilt, 2.50
                  Do do super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Pictorial Cottage Testament;
               Same Work as above described, bound in arabesque, 1.50
            
            
               Christian Martyrology;
               or, Sufferings of the Early Christians, being an Authentic and Genuine Historical Account of the principal Persecutions against the Church of Christ, in different parts of the World, by Pagans and Papists.
               
                  One large octavo volume, of over 250 pages, illustrated with twenty-four full page coloured Engravings, and bound in arabesque, gilt, 1.50
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 2.00
               
            
            
               Rotteck's History of the World.
               —A General History of the World from the earliest period. Embracing an account of the Origin and Manners and Customs of all the Nations of the Earth, the Rise and Progress of Judaism, Paganism, and Christianity, &c., &c. By Charles Von Rotteck, LL. D. With a continuation, containing an account of the various Revolutions and Wars in all parts of the World, to the PRESENT TIME. By Charles J. Peterson. Four volumes in one, making more than 1700 large octavo pages, illustrated with fifty highly finished Historical Engravings.
               
                  Handsomely bound in arabesque, gilt, 3.50
                  Do do 2 vols., sheep, library, 4.00
               
            
            
               Frost's Pictorial History of America.
               —Remarkable Events in the History of America, from the Discovery to the Present time. By John Frost, LL. D. Embellished with 700 Engravings. This splendid work contains an account of the Conquest of Mexico, by Cortez. The Conquest of Peru, by Pizarro and Almagro. The Conquest of Florida, by De Soto. The Discovery and Settlement of the United States and Canada. King Philip's War. The Seven Years' War. The American Revolution. The War of 1812. The War with the French Republic. The several Indian Wars, and the late War with Mexico.
               
                  Complete in one volume of 1600 large octavo pages, beautifully bound in arabesque, gilt, 3.50
                  Do do 2 vols., sheep, library, 4.00
               
            
            
               Pictorial History of the United States,
               from the Discovery of America to the Formation of the States, and from thence to the Present time. By C. B. Taylor. One large volume of over 600 pages, illustrated by over one hundred handsome Engravings, and bound in arabesque, gilt, 2.00
            
            
               Lives of Remarkable and Eccentric Characters.
               —Lives of Remarkable and Eccentric Characters, of all Ages and Countries; comprising Heroes, Conquerors, Statesmen, Authors, Artists, Extraordinary Humorists, Misers, Mountebanks, Kings and Queens, Jugglers and other Curiosities of Human Nature, compiled from authentic materials.
               
                  One large octavo volume of 800 pages, illustrated by several hundred Engravings, and beautifully bound, 2.50
                  Do do super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Frost's Pictorial Life of Washington.
               —Pictorial Life of George Washington: embracing a complete history of the Seven Years' War, the Revolutionary War, Formation of the Federal Constitution, and the Administration of Washington. By J. Frost, LL. D. One elegant large octavo volume, with upwards of one hundred Engravings, by Croome and Devereux, and six handsomely executed on steel.
               
                  Bound in arabesque morocco, gilt, 3.00
                  Do do red morocco, full gilt, 3.50
                  Do do super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Life and Speeches of Henry Clay.
               —This work is intended to trace clearly the career of Mr. Clay from his entrance on the stage of public life, down to the period of his death. The Biography comprises 200 pages, and his speeches about 1100. With an authentic Portrait on steel, and also a view of his birth-place.
               
                  One large octavo volume; large, clear type, handsomely bound, 3.00
                  Do do 2 vols., sheep, Library, 8.50
               
            
            
               
               Whitefield's Life and Sermons.
               —The Life and Sermons of Rev. George Whitefield. A new, revised, and improved edition, with an introduction by Rev. C. E. Stowe, D. D. In one large octavo volume of 666 pages, printed on fine white paper, with clear type, and embellished with a Portrait on Steel, and several other beautiful Engravings.
               
                  Bound in handsome and durable leather, 2.50
                  Do do super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Edmondson's Short Sermons.
               —Containing one hundred and forty short, plain and practical Sermons on important Subjects. By Jonathan Edmondson, with an Introduction by Rev. J. P. Durbin, D. D.
               
                  A new and improved edition, 8vo., cloth, containing an authentic Portrait of the Author, beautifully engraved on steel, 1.50
                  Do do sheep, library, 2.00
                  Do do super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Evan's Sermons.
               —Sermons of Christmas Evans, a New Translation from the Welsh, with a Memoir and Portraiture of the Author. By Rev. Joseph Cross. 8vo., sheep, library, 1.50
            
            
               The Wonders of Nature Displayed;
               or, 365 Reflections on the Works of God's Providence. By Sturm. This work contains a subject for reflection for every day throughout the year, intended to draw out the better feelings of man's nature in thankfulness to the great "Architect of the Universe" for the manifold blessings heaped upon sinful man throughout all the various walks of life. One volume, 8vo., 486 pp., cloth, gilt, 1.50
            
            
               Josephus' Works.
               —The Works of Flavius Josephus, containing twenty books of Jewish Antiquities, seven books of the Jewish War, and the Life of Josephus, written by himself. Translated from the original Greek, according to Havercamp's accurate edition, together with Explanatory Notes and Observations. By the late Wm. Whiston, A. M., 8vo., arabesque, 2.50
            
            
               Lord Byron's Works.
               —The Complete Poetical Works of Lord Byron, with a Memoir of his Life. A new and beautiful edition in one volume octavo, handsomely illustrated with eight elegant Steel Engravings, 2.50
            
            
               Todd's Johnson and Walker's Dictionary.
               —Containing also Walker's Key to the classical pronunciation of Greek, Latin, and Scripture proper names. In one handsome royal octavo volume, of nearly 1200 pages, double columns, neatly bound in plain leather. Being the best and cheapest edition in the English language, 2.50
            
            
               Chambers' Information for the People.
               —Information for the People. A popular Encyclopædia. By Wm. and Robert Chambers. With numerous additions, and more than six hundred Engravings. Complete in two imperial octavo vols. of 850 pages each. Handsomely bound in sheep. Library style, 5.00
            
            
               The Modern Stair Builder's Guide,
               and Practical System of Hand-railing, embracing all its necessary details, and Geometrically illustrated with twenty-two Steel Engravings; together with the use of the most important Principles of Practical Geometry. By Simon De graff, Architect. One quarto volume, bound in extra cloth, 3.00
            
            
               Platt's Book of Curiosities.
               —Containing Ten Thousand Wonders and Curiosities of Nature and Art, and of remarkable and astonishing Places, Beings, Animals, Customs, Experiments, Phenomena, &c., &c., of both Ancient and Modern Times, on all parts of the globe, comprising authentic accounts of the most wonderful Freaks of Nature and Arts of Man. Complete in one large octavo volume of nearly 1000 pages, and handsomely illustrated with numerous Engravings. Beautifully bound in arabesque, gilt back, 2.50
            
            
               Memoirs of Rev. George Whitefield.
               —By Rev. John Gillies, with an Introduction by Prof. C. E. Stowe, D. D., of Andover, Mass. An entirely new and enlarged edition, with many improvements, and containing a beautifully engraved Steel Portrait. One duodecimo volume, bound in embossed cloth 1.00
               * * *This work is bound to match with, and is a necessary companion to, "Stevens's History of Methodism."
            
            
               Dr. Buchan's Family Physician.
               —Domestic Medicine; or, a Treatise on the Prevention and Cure of Diseases by Regimen and Simple Medicines, with the latest Corrections and Improvements, and full directions in regard to Air, Exercise, Bathing, Clothing, Sleep, Diets, &c., and the general management of the Diseases of Women and Children. To which is annexed, a complete Family Dispensatory, for the use of Private Practitioners. By Wm. Buchan, M. D. With considerable Additions and Corrections, by an American Physician. One handsome large, 8vo. volume, strongly bound, and illustrated with a fine Portrait of Dr. Buchan, 2.50
            
            
               Peterson's History of the War of 1812,
               and with Mexico. Illustrated with two hundred Engravings, 8vo., arabesque, 2.50
            
            
               Peterson's History of the American Revolution.
               —By Charles J. peterson. Magnificently illustrated with about two hundred Engravings, 8vo., arabesque, 2.50
            
            
               Peterson's History of the United States Navy,
               from the formation of the Navy to the close of the Mexican War. One handsome octavo volume, with more than one hundred Engravings, embracing Portraits of all the Prominent Officers, Sketches of Naval Engagements, &c. In arabesque, gilt, 2.50
            
            
               The Heroic Women of History.
               —This valuable work furnishes a vast amount of Historical Information concerning the most Prominent Women of all ages and countries. Numerous Engravings, and handsomely bound, 2.50
            
            
               Moore's History of the Indian Wars.
               —The Indian Wars of the United States, from the Discovery to the Present Time, with accounts of the Origin, Manners, Superstitions, &c., of the Aborigines. By William V. Moore. 8vo., arabesque, 2.00
            
            
               Scott's Life of Napoleon.
               —The Life of Napoleon Bonaparte, Emperor of the French, with a Preliminary view of the French Revolution. By Sir Walter Scott. Complete in one large octavo vol., with handsome Engravings, 2.50
            
            
               
               Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.
               —18mo., with 8 fine plates. Cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Bunyan's Holy War.
               —18mo., with 8 fine plates, cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Bunyan's Minor Works
               —Containing Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners; Heart's Ease in Heart's Trouble; The World to Come, or Visions of Heaven and Hell; and the Barren Fig-Tree, or the Doom and Downfall of the Fruitless Professor. Complete in one volume cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               The Dialogues of Devils
               —On the many vices which abound in the Civil and Religious World. By Rev. John Macgowan, V. D. M. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Temperance Tales;
               or, Six Nights with the Washingtonians. (with Cruikshank's eight celebrated Plates of the "Bottle.") By T. S. Arthur. 2 vols. in one, 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               The Ladies' Guide in Needle Work.
               —A Gift for the Industrious, Containing Instructions in Canvass Work, Knitting, Netting and Crochet Work, Millinery and Mantua Making, Embroidery and Applique. Numerous Engravings, 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Willison's Afflicted Man's Companion.
               —Improved edition. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               The Pastor's Wife.
               —A Memoir of Mrs. Sherman, of Surrey Chapel, London. Edited by her husband, the Rev. James Sherman, Pastor of Surrey Chapel. Unabridged edition, 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Drew on the Immortality
               and Immateriality of the Soul. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Dick's Philosophy of a Future State.
               —18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Young's Night Thoughts.
               —18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               The Course of Time.
               —By Robert Pollok, A. M., with an enlarged Index, and an Analysis prefixed to each book. One volume, 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Cobbett's Sermons.
               —18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Cobbett's Advice to Young Men.
               —A Book that every Young Man should read. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Zimmerman on Solitude.
               —18mo., with Portrait of the Author. Cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Doddridge's Rise and Progress of Religion in the Soul.
               —Thick 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Baxter's Saint's Everlasting Rest.
               —18mo., with Portrait of the Author, cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Baxter's Call to the Unconverted.
               —18mo., cloth, 50
            
            
               Jay's Family Prayers.
               —18mo., cloth, 50
            
            
               Camp Meeting Chorister,
               (Methodist Hymn Book,) neat sheep, 25
            
            
               The Devil upon Two Sticks.
               —Translated from the French of M. Le Sage, with a Memoir of the Author. Asmodeus' Crutches, and Dialogues between two chimneys of Madrid, 50
            
            
               Original Poems,
               for Infant Minds, by the Taylor Family. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               The Life and Essays of Dr. Franklin
               —written by himself. A book that every young man in the United States should read. One volume, 18mo., with numerous plates, cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Stories of the War of 1812, and with Mexico.
               —A beautiful Juvenile Book, commemorative of these Important Events in the History of our Country. Elegantly illustrated, 16mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Tom Thumb.
               —The Life and Adventures of Tom Thumb. One of the best and most Entertaining Books published for Children, containing 16 Engravings, 50
            
            
               Dr. Dodd's Lectures to Young Men.
               —Discourses to Young Men. Illustrated with numerous highly interesting Anecdotes. A neat 24mo. volume, cloth, with Plates, 50
            
            
               Combe on the Constitution of Man
               —Fine Edition, 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               The Vicar of Wakefield.
               —By Dr. Goldsmith, 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Æsop's Fables.
               —Select Fables from Æsop and others. Illustrated with 200 Engravings. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               The Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life.
               —By Professor Wilson. New edition, 18mo. cloth, 50
            
            
               Life and Times of the Duke of Wellington.
               —Illustrated with 41 Engravings. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Life of the Notorious Stephen Burroughs.
               —Containing many incidents in the Life of this Wonderful Man, never before published; newly corrected and revised edition. 18mo. cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               
               The Farmer's Barn Book
               —By Clater, Youatt, Skinner and Mills. Containing the Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment of all the Diseases incident to Oxen, Sheep, and Swine; the Anatomy and Physiology of Neat Cattle, with an Essay on the Use of Oxen and the Breed of Sheep; Stable Management, Treatment of the Diseases of Horses; Plain and Practical Directions in the choice and purchase of Horses; with Directions how to ascertain the good qualities, and detect the faults of Carriage, Cart and Saddle Horses.
               
                  12mo, cloth, gilt, illustrated with numerous Engravings, 1.00
                  Do do arabesque, gilt, 1.25
               
            
            
               The New American Pocket Farrier
               and Farmer's Guide in the Choice and Management of Horses, Neat Cattle, Sheep and Swine; Including a Description of their Internal Structure—their Digestive System; the Diseases to which they are liable, with their causes, symptoms, and most approved methods of cure. From the writings of Youatt, Lawrence, Hines, White, Clater, and others. To which is added a variety of Agricultural and Miscellaneous Receipts. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Every Man his own Farrier.
               —Containing ten minutes' advice, How to Buy a Horse; to which is added, how to use your horse at home, or on a journey, and what remedies are proper for all diseases to which he is liable. 18mo., boards, 15
            
            
               Every Man his own Cattle Doctor.
               —Containing a Treatise on the Diseases of Horses, Cattle, Dogs, Sheep and Swine, with their Causes, Symptoms and Cure. 18., boards, 15
            
            
               Shakspeare's Complete Works.
               —The Complete Works of Wm. Shakspeare, comprising his Plays and Poems, with Dr. Johnson's Preface, a Glossary, an account of each Play, and a Memoir of the Author. By Rev. Wm. Harness, M. A. Embellished. Complete in one large royal octavo volume, bound in sheep, marble edges, 2.50
            
            
               True Republican.
               —Containing the Constitution of the United States, Declaration of Independence, a fine Portrait of each of the Presidents—also the Constitutions of the principal States in the Union, and the Inaugural Addresses and first Annual Messages of each of the Presidents, &c. One large volume, 12mo., of about 500 pages. Arabesque, gilt, 1.25
            
            
               Life of General Anthony Wayne,
               of the Revolutionary War. Illustrated with beautiful Engravings. Complete in one volume, 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Life of General Francis Marion,
               the great Partisan Chief of the War of Independence. Illustrated with beautiful Engravings. Complete in one volume. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Lives of Generals Wayne and Marion.
               —Both complete in one volume, with numerous Engravings, handsomely bound, roan, gilt, 18mo., 75
            
            
               Robinson Crusoe.
               —A new edition, 18mo., cloth, gilt, 8 plates, 50
            
            
               Mrs. Barwell's Advice to Mothers on the Treatment of Infants,
               with directions for Self-Management before, during and after Pregnancy. Addressed to Mothers and Nurses. Revised, enlarged, and adapted to the Habits and Climate of the United States, by a Physician of New York, under the approval and recommendation of Dr. Valentine Mott. 12mo., cloth, 50
            
            
               Paul and Virginia,
               to which is added Elizabeth, or the Exiles of Siberia. Two volumes complete in one. 18mo., fancy cloth, 50
            
            
               Fanny Dale,
               or A Year after Marriage, by T. S. Arthur; to which is added The Young Music Teacher, by T. S. Arthur. Two vols., complete in one. 18mo., fancy cloth, 50
            
            
               The Lady at Home,
               or Leaves from the every Day-Book of an American Woman, by T. S. Arthur. To which is added Elizabeth, or the Exiles of Siberia. Two volumes complete in one. 18mo., fancy cloth, 50
            
            
               Alonzo and Melissa;
               or, The Unfeeling Father, A Tale Founded on Fact. With one exception, and that is "Charlotte Temple," Alonzo and Melissa has probably been read more than any other Tale ever published in the United States. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Love and Romance;
               or, Charlotte and Lucy Temple. Two volumes in one. "Susannah Rowson, the authoress, has, by her interesting style, drawn more tears (for who has not shed tears over Charlotte Temple?) than any other authoress or author of modern times." In one neat volume, 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               The American Joe Miller;
               or, the Jester's Own Book. 18mo., cloth, gilt, 50
            
            
               Leary's Ready Reckoner,
               and Coin Book in Dollars and Cents; to which is added the Coins of different parts of the world, with their value. Also, forms of Notes, Bills, Receipts, Petitions, &c.; also Interest Tables, at 6 per cent., from $1,00 to $12,000; together with other useful Tables, 15
            
            
               Charlotte Temple
               —A Tale of Truth, by Mrs. Rowson, 18mo., boards, 15
            
            
               Lucy Temple.
               —A Sequel to Charlotte Temple, 18mo., boards, 15
            
            
               Etiquette Letter-Writer.
               —Being the Complete Art of Fashionable Correspondence. 18mo., boards, 15
            
            
               Jack Lawrence, the Sailor Boy.
               —By the Author of Jack Halyard. 1 vol., 18mo., boards, 15
            
            
               The Laughing Philosopher.
               —Or Book of Fun, 15
            
            
               Hocus Pocus.
               —Or the whole Art of Legerdemain explained. 18mo., boards, 15
            
            
               
               Parlor Library,
               comprising the following six volumes, in a handsome case, bound to match, in scarlet morocco full gilt.
               
                  SABBATH DAY MISCELLANY,
                  CHRISTIAN'S LEGACY,
                  PILGRIM'S PROGRESS,
                  HISTORICAL CABINET,
                  KNAPP'S FEMALE BIOGRAPHY,
                  FLEETWOOD'S LIFE OF CHRIST, Price, for the set, 12.00
               
            
            
               Cottage Cabinet Library;
               six vols., 18mo., in a neat case.
               
                  PILGRIM'S PROGRESS,
                  DREW ON THE SOUL,
                  DODDRIDGE'S RISE AND PROGRESS,
                  DIALOGUES OF DEVILS,
                  BAXTER'S SAINT'S REST,
                  DICK'S FUTURE STATE Price, for the set, 8.00
               
            
            
               Young Folks' Cabinet Library;
               six vols., 18mo., in a neat case.
               
                  ARTHUR'S TEMPERANCE TALES,
                  LIFE AND ESSAYS OF DR. FRANKLIN,
                  ÆSOP'S FABLES,
                  ROBINSON CRUSOE,
                  LIFE OF WELLINGTON,
                  ORIGINAL POEMS BY JANE TAYLOR. Price, for the set, 3.00
               
            
            
               Young Lady's Cabinet Library;
               six vols., 18mo., in a neat case.
               
                  LADIES' GUIDE IN NEEDLE WORK,
                  LOVE AND ROMANCE,
                  ALONZO AND MELISSA,
                  PASTOR'S WIFE,
                  LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF SCOTTISH LIFE,
                  VICAR OF WAKEFIELD. Price, for the set, 3.00
               
            
            
               Young Man's Cabinet Library;
               six vols., 18mo., in a neat case.
               
                  COBBETT'S ADVICE TO YOUNG MEN,
                  COMBE ON MAN,
                  ZIMMERMAN ON SOLITUDE,
                  LIFE OF STEPHEN BURROUGHS,
                  DEVIL ON TWO STICKS,
                  POLLOK'S COURSE OF TIME. Price, for the set, 3.00
               
            
         
         
            STANDARD ROMANCES.
            32 mo., Roan, Gilt.
            The following series of the old English classics is neatly brought out. Each volume is in a convenient form, and may be carried in the pocket. They are bound in handsome and durable roan binding, gilt backs, and sold at lower prices than any other editions in America.
            
               Children of the Abbey.—8 vols. in one, 32mo., roan, gilt, 75
               Robinson Crusoe.—Complete edition. 32mo., with plates, roan, gilt, 75
               The Bandit's Bride, or the Maid of Saxony. A very interesting romance, by Louisa Sydney Stanhope. Complete in one volume, 32mo., roan, gilt, 75
               Cottage on the Cliff.—A new and unabridged edition, to match the Children of the Abbey, 75
               Cook's Voyages.—Illustrated with numerous Engravings. Complete edition. 2 vols. in one, 32mo., roan, gilt, 75
               Arabian Nights' Entertainments.—70 Plates. 32mo., roan, gilt, 75
               Scottish Chiefs.—By Miss Jane Porter. 3 vols. in one, 32mo., roan, gilt, 75
               Gil Blas.—4 vols. in one, 32mo., roan, gilt, 75
               Don Quixotte.—4 vols. in one, 32mo., roan, gilt, 75
               The Mysteries of Udolpho.—3 vols. in one, 32mo., roan, gilt, 75
               Romance of the Forest.—2 volumes in one, roan, gilt, 50
               Thinks I to Myself.—A Serio-Ludicro-Comico-Tragico Tale. 1 vol. 32mo., roan, gilt, 25
               Peter Wilkins' Visit to the Flying Islanders.—1 vol. 32mo. roan, gilt, 25
            
         
         
            
            SCHOOL BOOKS.
            
               Roy's Hebrew and English Dictionary.—A complete Critical and Pronouncing Dictionary, containing all the words in the Holy Bible, both Hebrew and Chaldee, with the vowel points, the prefixes and affixes, as they stand in the original text; together with their derivation, literal and etymological meaning, as it occurs in every part of the Bible, and illustrated by numerous citations from the Targum, Talmud, and Cognate dialects. By W. L. Roy, Professor of Oriental Languages. Complete in one royal octave volume, bound in half Russia. Price 5.00
               Booth's New Pictorial United States.—For Primary Schools, 244 pages, 18mo., neatly bound, with Questions. This is the best History of the United States now published for the use of Primary Schools, 50
               The Central School Reader.—Compiled by the Female Association of Friends for the Improvement of Juvenile Books. One of the best books published for Select Schools and Academies. Also designed for Family Use. 12mo., 1.00
               Wilmsen's Reader; or, the Children's Friend. One hundred and sixtieth edition. One of the best books ever published for Children between the ages of eight and twelve years. 12mo. 75
               Murray's English Reader.—12mo., half arabesque, 25
               Murray's Introduction.—12mo., boards, 12½
               Chapin's New Classical Spelling Book.—12mo., boards, Price 12½
               Cordery's Colloquies in Latin, improved with Exercises and Vocabulary. 12mo., 33
               Public School Singing Book, by A. F. Cox, suited for Schools, Academies and Seminaries. 32mo., boards, 12½
               Kelley's New Juvenile Primer, 3
               The Washington Primer.—A beautiful Book for Young Children, 2
               Testament.—A good School edition. 18mo., half arabesque. Price 25
            
         
         
            STANDARD WORKS
            In fine Bindings, suitable for Presentation Books, printed on fine White Paper, and beautifully Illustrated.
            
               Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.
               
                  —Octavo, large type, 16 Engravings, bound in English morocco, full gilt sides, back and edges, 3.00
                  The Same Work, super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Fleetwood's Life of Christ
               and his Apostles, with a History of the Jews, up to this time.
               
                  Octavo, 25 engravings, bound in English Morocco, full gilt sides, back and edges, 3.00
                  The Same Work, super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               The Perpetual Keepsake;
               being the New Testament, got up in very handsome style, large type, fine white paper, with initial letters and full page engravings, expressly designed and executed for this work.
               
                  Octavo, bound in English morocco, full gilt sides, back and edges, 2.50
                  The Same Work, super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               The Family Fire-Side Book;
               or Monuments of Temperance.
               
                  Octavo, 10 steel plates, bound in English morocco, full gilt sides, back and edges, 2.50
                  The Same Work, super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Frost's Lives of Eminent Christians.
               
                  —Octavo, 16 engraved portraits, bound in English morocco, full gilt sides, back and edges, 3.00
                  The Same Work, super extra antique, 5.00
               
            
            
               Burder's History of all Religions.
               —Octavo, 24 plates, bound in super extra antique, 5.00
            
            
               Whitefield's Life and Sermons.
               —Octavo. Steel portrait and 16 engravings. Bound in super extra antique, 6.00
            
            
               Platt's Book of Curiosities,
               or Wonders of the World, in Nature, Art, Science, &c., &c. Octavo, 24 engravings, bound in super extra antique, 5.00
            
            
               Frost's Pictorial Life of Washington.
               
                  —Octavo, six fine steel plates and 100 engravings, bound in super extra antique, 5.00
                  The Same Work, Red morocco, full gilt, 3.00
               
            
            
               Lives of Remarkable and Eccentric Characters.
               —Octavo, over 100 engravings, bound in super extra antique, 5.00
            
            
               Christian Martyrology,
               or Sufferings of the early Christians. Octavo, 24 engravings, bound in English morocco, full gilt sides, back and edges, 2.00
            
            
               Edmondson's Short Sermons,
               containing one hundred and forty plain and practical Sermons. Octavo, steel portrait, bound in super extra antique, 5.00
            
         
         
            
            BOOKS AND STATIONERY.
            THE OLD ESTABLISHED CHEAP BOOK STORE, NO. 224 NORTH SECOND STREET, (Between Race and Vine Sts.) PHILADELPHIA.
            COUNTRY MERCHANTS, BOOKSELLERS, STOREKEEPERS, SCHOOL BOARDS, TEACHERS, AND EVERYBODY IN WANT OF BOOKS AND STATIONERY, WILL FIND AT THIS ESTABLISHMENT A COMPLETE ASSORTMENT OF ENGLISH AND CLASSICAL TEXT-BOOKS, FOR COLLEGES, ACADEMIES, AND SCHOOLS, WHETHER PUBLIC OR PRIVATE.
            ALSO, SCHOOL AND FAMILY STATIONERY IN GREAT VARIETY; BESIDES AN EXTENSIVE STOCK OF ALL KINDS OF BOOKS, IN EVERY DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE.
            Family, School, and Pocket Bibles, Prayer-Books, Hymn-Books, Blank Account and Memorandum Books, Slates, Ink, Pens, Slate and Lead Pencils. Wrapping Papers, etc. etc. etc.
            ALL SELLING AT THE VERY LOWEST NET CASH PRICES.
            LEARY, GETZ & CO.,
            PUBLISHERS AND BOOKSELLERS, NO. 224 NORTH SECOND STREET, PHILADELPHIA. Particular Attention paid to all Orders by Mail.
         
         
            VALUABLE HISTORICAL, THEOLOGICAL, AND MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS,
            PUBLISHED BY LEARY, GETZ & CO.,
            No. 224 North Second Street, PHILADELPHIA.
            Any Book in this Catalogue will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the Retail Price in money or in postage stamps.
            Persons desiring to act as Agents for the sale of these Books, can receive all necessary information relating to the business by addressing as above.
         
      
   
