
    ----CITATION----
        Brown, Nathan, (1807-1886). De histori ov Magnus Maha'rba and de Blak Dragun .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5911 wright2-0384
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            [Backwards D]e histori ov Magnus Maha'rba and de Blak Dragun
            
               -  t
. s
a
}
F
t'
6
n
t =_
i
r
r
h
t '3
t
f

[E HISTORI
ov.
MIAGNUS            AHKARBA
AND BE
BLA.K DRAGITN.
D3At
KISTOFUR KADMUS.
rt Z Vrnx T ~tv 43 ~oo guran t ttbvr~z
Soun~dta ijz'i U .06 u  ofir. ---bidMaksim.
Nil-YORK:
PRINTED FOR GlE FILOLOJIKAI GEMANA.
MtDC CCLXVI.t


~,1,- no

41A

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by
NATHAN BoW N,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for
the District of NewJersey.
Copy-right secured for this work in common Englih
and rectided Saxon orthography,

HE Publishers of this History owe
it to themselves, as well as their
Readers, to give a Word of Ex-
planation regarding the Dress in
which it appears. It was their first
Impression that the Work would
be nearly unintelligible in the Or-
thography of the original Manu-
scripts, and they had, therefore,
considerable Hesitancy in complying with the Wish-
es of their respected Townsman, Mr. C. Cadmus,
who insisted with some Warmth that, if printed at
all, it should be. without Alteration. He informs
us that in the Country of which he writes, the
Standard of Orthography has been fixed by a cer-
tain learned Society, having the Oversight of such
Matters, and he scarcely feels at Liberty to deviate
from the Mode of Spelling which they have estab-
lished. We found after reading a few Pages of
the Work, that it was not so difficult as it at first
appeared. The chief Peculiarity seems to be the
A

/


iv

accenting of the vowels, a, e, i, o, u, to give them
a long Sound, after the Manner of the ancient
Saxons, who used the'Accents in such words as
wrath,' wste (waste), fri (free), f6r (floor), rdm
(room). We perceive, also,, that c stands for ch,
as it did among the Saxons, who wrote cild for
child, hwilc for which. They likewise employed a
single Character, a peculiar Kind of D, to repre-
sent the sound of th, and it is a curious Coinci-
dence that a similar Letter is here used for the
same Purpose. Perhaps we may find in these
Circumstances a Clue to the Time and Place in
History to which the Events here narrated belong.
Mr. Cadmus does not inform us when or where
he obtained the Documents used in compiling his
Narrative; whether they are of remote Antiquity
or recent Date, or what was the Language in
which they were originally written. But from his
Partiality for the Saxon Orthography, and from
Resemblances, here and there, indicating Connec-
tion with the Language, Thought and Customs
of our early Ancestors, we have a strong Suspi,
cion that this singular Record pertains to some
Branch of the Saxon Family, and that it is a De-
scription of one of those terrific Contests for which
that warlike Race has ever been famous. But on
this Subject we would not speak positively. We
merely throw out the Suggestion for the Consid-
eration of the Reader, whom we leave to form
his own Conclusions after he has completed the
Volume.

jatiwflttcahrba.

CAPTUR .

~~~WUl ov  st'ri  klusterz on ai outr mar-
jin ov ae ydnivers woz ae sin ov ae transak-
gunz rikorded in ae folomii pejez.   b'okurd
about sik aouzand yirz aftur c(at orb bigan tu bi
pipkl wia ragunal intelijensez. ULi egzakt piriud,
akordin tu aer rekni, hwen ce Blak Dragon koi-
enst hiz wor upon ae gud kim Magnus Mahirba,
woz A. M. VDCCCLX. Nou A. M. iz aer abrivieun
for Anno Manni, or Anno Mundi, signifaiin yir
ov ce man-wurld. For ae inhabitants sup6z   er
wurld tu hav bin md out ov ae reinz ov sum former
wurld, jujin from ae rimdnz ov hidius reptilz, enor-
mus frogz, lizardz, dragunz and ucaur monsturz hwic
ad hav found imbeded in ce roks, swomps and
alvial dipozits. Uer tr at prezent on e planet
a klas ov monomdniaks, kbld jiolojists, iu spend

I


6              Ena     STa4trhn.
ar laivz in digin up and asortin ad6z disgiabli
krieurz, and kalkaldtin ie piriudz ov antikwiti in
hwic  e respektivli flurigt. For ai amnzment ov
YU  pip , uz emiabl enanziasts public knrius buks
d wik outlandi9 pikcurz ov ae verius goblin form
Qat kr ld, krept, swam or s6rd, amunst ae konfizd
and worin elements, in ae fogi don ov kridgn-
Hweaur ae Blak Dragun woz wun or..i original
pri'human inhabitants, h  bai a rimirkahl tenasiti
ov laif had survaivd ae revolngiunz oat swept bl ai
uaur praimival oknpants intu kdos, or hweacr hi
woz a mugrum    produkgun ov ltur ddt hwie it
wud bi rait tu ekstermindt, woz a point muc dis-
pited. Ge m6st lerned men wer divaided; but a
majoriti ov ae lbyurz and spiricual dokturz wer ov
opinyun aat ae Blak Dragun bilond tu e prim-
itiv formegunz; or at hi woz at list k6ival in hiz
orijin wia man, and gud bi trited wia dun respekt
az a gud krieur ov God, and a joint propraiitur ov
ae planetari domen.
te gl6b of hwic ai rait, notwiastandin its inffri-.
oritiin saiz, woz wun ov ae mdst bItiful in ae hd1
surki ovrae hevnz. Its soil woz ric, its fridts dili-
gus, its flourz ekskwizitli tdstful, and its erz redo-
lent wia purfm. But ae men wer ov a bad rs;
selfi, pagunet, kworelsun, and wurgipurz ov a grdt
number ov aidul godz. It has bin aserted aat er
necur, sun after it kem from (e hand o .e rid
tur, risivd a tent from e brea ov a sndki apariun
at insinyudted itself intu ai irbur ov ae furst par,
and huiz poizn haz kontamindted bl -r ofspri,.

ngUs"11u bantha.              7
Lerned skolurz and antikwdrianz, hld hav  uroli
t'ited ae subjekt, aink aer kan bi n6 dout
at ve Blak Dragun iz a direkt disendant ov aat
veriO 61d serpent hd injected hiz dedli venum intu aO
vnz ov aer projeniturz.
Gi orb on hwic man and ae Dragun dwelt had
td -lrj ailandz, wun on iur said, hwic wer kbld,
in ao langwej ov aat sfir, ae Gret Orient and (e
Grstt Oksident.  (er wer ols6 veri waid 69eunz bi-
twin aem. And ace Grdt Orient woz ae irjur ov
ae td ailandz, for it, ekstended lenawaiz kwalt
akros wun said ov ae planet, and its norawesturn
and sonawesturn ekstremitiz, kbld Nora and Kuga
street fir out intu ae si. Durin ae furst faiv aou-
zand yirz ov man, ae Grdt Oksident woz skersli
n6n tu ae dwelurz in ai Orient, and ivn ae dim
tradigen (Tat sue an ailand -egzisted woz at lena
forgotn. But wns upon a taim    an advencurus
si-katin  nnd Kristofr, sdlin westward, cast
tu diskuvur it. He found it pipld bai strenj resez,
hd wer sizd wia terur at hiz apr6c, ainkin ae nu
kumrz had disended from ao skaiz.  liwen Kris-
tofur riturnd tu hiz 6n kuntri, and diskraibd ae
bati ov ae land hi had found, and t6ld ov ae g6ld
and silver and daimundz wia hwie it abounded,
ae ripr't kwikli spred aril sitiz and provinsez, and
b1 o pipl wer fild wici wundur. And ade bigan tu
kum out in swormz, laik biz from a hundred haivz,
ginkin tu betur aer kondigun bal rinmivix1 tu a kun
tri aat woz sd ric. And ae prd vur in gips and
galiz, and tuk pozecun ov ae Grdt Oksident, es-

L6.

l  R
lr


8

tabligin ar koloniz in e soua and
in aeesenter.adnin ae nora, and
in are sentujr.
Minhwail ae Blak Dra      b    m
instinkt, pursivd cae grin grdtnes v  edaiabol-
onz i ae land ov gdld, and hi sed tu himse lf, §al
ae rds ov man enjoi ais na paradise aldn  d
hav n6 part cerin? S6 hi formd hiz p, nd
on a1 ovnin Ov a stormi dd hi mounted a hnurl-
wind, and da9t of upon ce woturz  ufi a  nor-
in Jaik a stim-enjin. And hi had sevuraln ipsnoat
akumpanid him, tu suplai him wia fud and nesesa-
riz dfrin hiz voiej. D6 aftur dd hi swep  non
sorin aloft dvur ae mountain wdvz, nouln plin bU
niu ae surfes and gutin ard ae bin wottrz laik
Norwiian krdken. Mermen and      -d       - a
sf-serpents and bl cie .fini traibz nekmdd  hLz
aproc, and hid aemselvz in abr dgun kavurnz hwail
hi past bai. About a muna had ilat hw       i
ce dnbius lait ov a misti morning hiz dir sk
form woz diskaid imerjin from e Wdvz and krb-
in up on c(e sandi bic ov ai Oksident.  ,er hi
langwidli 6ld himself about, suvdin wia bl6ted
and fair1 aiz ce riun around, and kwaietli divourin
evuri ain oat km in hiz we. It woz afturwnodz
d.skuvurd  at on ce botum ov ai 69un, bl alon cec
an ov hiz trak, aer woz paild up a grt haiw' o
hwaitnd b6nz, ae skeletunz ov hnman viktimz at
had bin id and ftn bai him on hiz assj from
wun ailand tu ci ipr.
N6 sunur woz ae Blak Dragun ferli setid upon
i Oksident kdst aan hi bigan Ut gaaur around

xwapo aitfuh.               9
him gret numburz ov pipl, hum hi alard wia ac
piomis ov vast ricez, iz from 14bur, and joint do-
minyun ovol aat porgn ov ae grit ailand hwie
woz kblad Sunland. ULi'z frendz and alaiz ov hiz
wer kbld Drag6nianz, after ae nem ov abr patrun.
Bai abr asistans hi fited out swift gips and sent
aem akros ai 69un tu ae land ov ae Kuganz, aer tu
bai, stil and kapeur strop men and yui wimin,
helai boiz and fer damzelz, and bri aem dvur tu
bikum minialz and helots, and tu til ae fildz, and
tu priper soft and delikat rdment for himself and
hiz servants. And aie kuntri bike'm ful ov pipi,
and ae n6blz grd welai and proud, laik ae lordz
ov ae 61d kindums hwens as kdm.
Nou aer wer but fn lbz in Sunland, and nun wer
konsidurd absolntli baindin eksept ae lbz for hold-
in fast ace Kuganz and kilin of a sufigent numbr
ov aem evuri yir tu fid ae Blak Dragun. For ae
Dragoun woz a vorscus itur, olbiit hi woz veri ddn-
ti, and did not relig ace fle9 ov hiz viktimz unles
it had bin wel brdzd and flajelsted tu mek it ten-
dur and sdvuri. (le Drag6nianz undurstandi ais,
komenst ae manglin ov ae yun Kuganz at a veri
erli dj, and bai a s16 proses ov torcur mdd aer fleg
eksidili delikat and palatable. It woz a grit art
tu faind out hou best tu prolon ae laivz ov aiz
unhapi kricurz hwail undurg6in ce nigurus tritment
tu hwic ad wer subjekted. (le Dragun had a pro-
fegunal klas, kold Ovurlukurz, hi mdd' aat studio
aer spegal biznez. Tu gratifai ibr pins ad invent-
ed meni karius enjinz for lasurdtin and mangling ae


10

ieg ov ae helots; and daivurz aimnris
o  al'iolsd  stoksfivr.a.n sand feturz
gagz ov airn for    s or aer hand and ft, and
ing miksourn tu   aer mouaz; and wundurful burn-
Imksuzto por upon aer bodiz aftr k
teria ae skin wia hw'    a     , anr putand
wudn molz.ad purordted
is enefoul monster ols6 praktist ae horibi rait ov
eni bntiful       h never hi so amun ue Kuganz
ore b      7jifdun wimmn, hwearr waivz or midnz hi
orurbik  em tu hi brbt bifdr him and ad wer fdrst
hiz wigez hiz Waivz, for as na aat if ad gud opdz
hie Blak Dwud tr aem      from limn
formtz    oz Dragun, lnotwiastandin hiz brdtig di-
faon.ii oa grdt fevurit wi   p;pi ov wela and
falendi retinkept a magnifisent kdrt, and had a
raleid oreat  -iz servants praktist a grdt va -
hrjinizo wert  u render hiz apirans kumli.  Hz
hizorn  ameondbai ac kroun and jd.elz wia hwi,
hip    hwzornaented . lhiz fes woz siminli hnan,
grinpt hn i atemted tu small, and aen hiz
grinin andtenis  n  -t gs   o a savej ekspregon
tud rikounwenis anat hiz fiendz and adnairurz
wud fkrkaventi start bak wia terur. Iliz hnj and
skli karkas woz envelupt m  rdbz ov velvet and
sik; and az hi sat upon- hiz ebn ,rdn, hiz atend-
ant, wd azrtuihtienz, wer rdnjd around him in
sue a we az toub-haid hiz Ion,             m iona  v  o
viziturz. Fer lizd'    zl   " a fo    ev     r
and wer loud iniz and gallant naits around hiz pales,
pns hr lod in prdz ov ae glori and grdtnes ov abr
imajind wud wun de bikum ae r     r
ov ae wurid.                        Ule      r

ISAIDZ ae Blak Dragun aer wer uaur lon-
jivianz hi did not bilon tu ae rds ov men,
and huz laivz wer not limited, laik abrz,
rVoVI tu a hundred revolngunz ov ae planet, but
hd rimund dj aftur dj, and egzerted a pourful
infinens on pasin jenrdgnz. In ae kom-
un daialekt ov ai inhabitants aiz old rezi-
dents wer kbld bai sue ne'mz az sima  mst ekspresiv
ov abr rispektiv karaktrz. Wn ov aem, a rinkd
and ripulsiv antediluvian, woz kbld Tirani; anuaur,
a fimdl, ov sumhwot maildur kountenans and mor
polait diminur, woz n6n az Monirkia; and aer woz
a waild krszi bakanal, wurs aan Tirani himself, hu
went bai ae ndm ov Annrkia.                 .
Hwail sum ov aiz lonjivianz wer malevolent biz,
ai ofsprin ov ai infernalz, hd dilaited 6nli in mizuri
and rdin, uaurz wer ov silescal bura, and b aer in-
turk6rs wia mortal woz kaind and hapi; ae apird to
hav n6 dizair but tu bring bak mankaind tu aer
orijinal trea and vurcu. Cher wer ols6 on ae sdm
planet jaiants, or demigodz, hu partuk ov boa ne-
curz, ae silescal and ae mortal; kombaini ae pour
and infinens ov ae wun wia a infurmitiz and erurz
ov ai taur.

krnir    Y 4fiuIrn.

CAPTURE II.


It woz several hundred   i
Kristofur aat a yun jaiant by re      tm o m
biant b       ydms naekai ae nim ov Samunkl
He    Lo hv   sincre kuntri ov ci Oksidentalz-
Fi    o  o i lecalp  ente,  bii!n  a  disendant  ov
Friga, ae godes ov liburt' lH1 eldsdt, ov
dima, woz a luvli kriczrh    eldet dbit, Fi-n
- . .ur, uz' ekstrordmnari bati 'i
in infansi, encanted 61 bih6ldTrz  A  '   u, hun
f6m spred rd  i ailand, and ako  z 91  ad up, her
mdst distant landz. And cae Blak Dragun fikst hiz
aiz upon hur, and hwen hi sb hur bft hg ditid
tu mdk hur hiz braid.
Samunkl woz ae mdstest
Samuni WO  crcm~stekstensjv landholdur on are
western ailand, and hi fainaliens bym .andhddr o
61 dz ric trakts ndn az ee Yunaited Okents In
ordur tu enkurej ldbururz tuuseteon Oid   n
aloud ae kutvtrbuo           eo      iz landz hi
aodcckultiy~tur z tu ok uipai acem Wic laout rent, su-
p6rtin himself on ce   npi  emn wiat hi wo-
tu aknmuldt bai trid wia foren u6unz. It woz
undurstud, houevur, cat in kdso  worz or   woz
erjensi, ai oknpanis ov ae soil ov w r cenrsim-
burdnz ovh otr.9                   er ae nesesari
budz ov aec kuntri.
But are kinz in  uom ovcc Noran kuntriz w,,
displizd at ae liburaliti ov Samun  For    ei
It iz not gud (at ae pipi   d b' -d     o e  d
rents; ais egzanpl wil wurk u  1irfed romsped
diskontent amun our subjekts. sAnd     wilkipre
Blulia spdk tu Monirkia, cre godes hum hi wnuriptv
and gi bed him send vur and kolekt cc rents him.
self. For, sed gi, udz pipi went out fe r r 6n
kindom, and aerfdr addr   '           omyuon
ki~du, an  ccr~r (andryir subjekts stil. S6 hj
gent dvur hiz mesenjurz andyr shz taksst  az
tsgaaerurz, az9

advaizd him. But ae pip1 rifnzd abr dimandz and-
diklerd acd wud p6 n6 rent, tribyut or kustum tu
ac kil ov ae Buianz. Gen hi sent vur hiz Arniiz
tu kontend wia aem in b'atl and tu vankwig and
subdn em. But ad met wia dizastur and kud not
akompli9 cae kipz dizair.
And Samunkl sumund ae cffs and hedz ov ae
pip1 tu a grdt kounsil. And ae 6bid ae kbl and
hosted and kdm tugeacur in ful numburz, and sat in
kounsil meni ddz. And a sed, Wi wil kast of ae
kinz y6k, and mdk us kinz ov our dn; and Mon-
rkia gal hi dip6zd from hur kwinli dignity aridout
ai entair Oksident; and in hur sted wi wil ciz ac
jenti Fridima and kroun hur purpecual kwin, and
9i aal bi ae godes around huz traikulurd banur Wi
wil rali our woryurz.  S6 a komnnd wic hur
faur, and apointed a de hlwen hi gud brie hur out
tu aen, aat ad mait dd hur homej. And on ae
fdra de ov aeinuna ov Julius gi kdm bif6r aem
wia blugin kountenans and lining on hur fuaurz irm;
and acr kround hur wia a g6ldn kroun, and led hur
fdra bifdr l ae pip, and ae pipl routed and klapt
acr handz, and kraid, Fridima forever ! And ce
kounsil orddnd aat i anivursari ov aat de gud evur
after hi keyt az a holide, and i kold korondgun de,;
and aat bl carr kinz gud tdk an da tu protekt, defend
and prizerv ai onur and snpremnasi ov Fridima, and
aat huevur konspaird agenst hur gud sufur dea.
But alas ! ai our ov traiunf iz ofn ai our ov
peril, and ais ae jent1 Fridima afturwurdz lernd u
hur sor. In ae kounsil aat 96d hru aiz onurz er

13)

ffupvs LlUvarbao


14                            -
wer mesenjurz from Sunland, m  wr rT     .ai
but a    n      o    unn-d       er Drag'nianz,
butae'm~dn6  l~i inbihifov aer pains fat hei
gud ger in ue government ov aekuntri. On ahi
riturn bm ae Dragun cido ae biknt. On bn
unmaindful ov hiz interests and hado ie   men
g n hzhamd611not 1vn men-
kbnd hi knknded t6 wen e nejkst grdt kounsil woz
kld hs konkluded t prizent himself, alon wi hi?
deleg~it ;s, and kle~m hiz sit az wun ov aeciof pro
praiitari lordz and raitful o ants of ac  pro
ailand. But ae Normen werlpa to admit him u
a kounsil ov htnanz a hoeur, aloud him tu spi
and prizent hiz kIdnz.H oford hu join wi  k c
in forming a grand h' -and k  ntu ad    wu p   m l
hiz fdrsez wia adz o  Samunkl, atne disposal ov oa
kinz hDi gud bi cozen tu nl, a e  is oi i  a
protekgun and dife.    ut r hl wud konsent tu a
ydnyun dnli on sertin kondi unz.wui object ov ae
waili d1d dimun woz tu obtn guz  un ove r'ae
i propdzd fat if ad wud giv hur tu him  riia.j
hi wud divers hiz former   u      nrim tm m
hi had bin sd lon yunaitedspouz Monakitum,
and Fridima gud bi hiz l'in an onnali kvded,
waif, sd lop az rivurz ran or gan rd rAh w  id
ad had lon konsulteunz and       i     bfr als
kud from ae grdt kuvenant hwic woz t, bi ao pt'-
pecual lb ov ae relm.  Ue Dwgianz diar pur-
it gud kontdn an akt ov bitro a baindin  istar
and Fridima in purpecual bondz. Samunkl and ae
Normen wer gokt at ais propdzal; and yet ad wei
so dizairus ov ae Dragunz asistans in abr wo-i'.
agenst Mondrkia aat ad did not der tu s6 n . CI

aerf6r aloud ac kuvenant tu bi ritn obsknrli, s6 az
tu i kdpabl ov difurent inturpietdeunz; and tu ais
do ae mining ov sum parts iz disputed. It apirz,
houevur, tu hay bin jenurali admited aat ai instru-
ment gdv ae Blak Dragun a rait tu partisipet in ae
guvurnment, and aat ae frdmurz kontemple'ted a
ynyun bitwin him and Fridira. QI probably h6pt
aat hi wud cnj hiz nicur, or at list hiz habits, az
wun ov ai artiklz provided aat hi gud, after a gort
p'riud, diskontinyu hiz trafik via ae Kugan-selurz
and bring n6 mdr unhapi viktimz akros ae woturz.
H-fou it hapnd aat ae 9rdd Samunkl ud hav giva
hiz konsent tu ais unacural alaians haz ever bin a
misturi. Bai sum it iz sed aat hi did not undur-
stand ae necur and import ov ae kuvenant ford;
bai uaurz aat hi must hay bin pirgali insdn, or pur-
haps stnpifaid wia intoksikstin drugz; vaurz still
mente'n aat hi woz braibd bai ae grdt advantejez
tu bi diraivd from a lig wia ae Dragun.  lou-
ever ais m' bi, it iz p4n hi woz never hirtili in
fdvur ov ai alaians ; and az taim r6ld on, ae prospekt
ov giving up hiz doter tu a embrds ov a monstur s6
pred upon hiz spirits aat hiz brou woz furod wia pr-
matnr rinklz. Az for ae caild, 9i wud start wia
horur hwenevur ae kontemplsted ycnyun woz aladed
tu, and beriin hur fds in hur handz imidietli rug out
ov sait.

15

gRagillys All-ItA ba.


17

CAPTUf RIII.

ItJJJIMA, bin ov ae Ionjivian ris, did not
gro up tu iwurmanhud rapidli laik mortalz.
Hur ydi ekstended ard ae rdnz ov several
ov (i erli kinz, wia hdm gi woz a grit fi
vurit. (64 wer kerful tu mdk nd alajun tu
hur unhapi bitroaal, probabli hdpin aat co
Dragun wud dai bifdr ae nupgalz   ud b'
konsumdted. Anyuali, on korondgun d, ae damzel
whi hur mddnz rest in wait apird bifdr (e pipl and
marct tu ae tempi ov liburti, amid i aklamsgnz ov
ae multitadz, ha str6d hur paua wia rdzez, and huz
admiri9un ov hur luvir ndcur and jenti dispozigun
had nboundz
But als holidd woz an ofens tu ae Blak Dragun,
hu, az oft az it riturnd, sat mudi and unsdgal in hZ
pales, meditdtin on (e minz bai hwic hi rmait brinr
hiz fcur braid intu proper subjekun, and puni9
ae Fridomanz hid wer fosturin hur vanity bai air
pl zez, and hli, hi grddli suspekted, wer bent on
br6kin up ae mac and snaci from  hiz pozegun
i object o hiz dizair.
Ge Dragn woz akustumd tu noc vvuri korons-
eun dO upon hiz spir-handl. Aftur hi had mdd haf
a hundred nocez hi bigan tu urj upon (Xe rdnin
biganto n J upn ae ''ni

kin biz klsm for Fridima, dimandig aat. gi gud at
list i pldst undur ristrent, and insted ov wond-
urin about at her plejur, bi komited tu ae gardian-
ip ov tuturz hd wud trin hur tu dosiliti and sub-
inign, and wud tic hur, abuv bl ainz els, gat ae
Blak Dragun woz tu bi hur mAstur.    Ge kin hu
guvurnd at aat taim wud not lisn tu ae prop6zal; but
hiz rdn woz port, and ae kinz hd fol6 him wer m6r
fsvurabl tu ce IDragun, and promist him gat hi gud
hay b1 hi askt.  Gen ae skdli 61d monstr, faind-
i gat hi had ae kinz upon hiz said, bigan tugo
out m6r and mn6r ov hiz ditestabi ndcur. Hi kom-
enst mdkin oksjunal vizits tu ae hous ov Samunkl,
fraitnin pdr Fridima olm6st tu distrakgun, augi
hur wia a maligus lir and 96in hur hiz horid tia.
On wun or td okdjunz hi sizd hur bai ae her ov
hur hed,.and wud hav dragd hur of tu biz 6n h6m
wikout mersi, but for i outkrai rdzd bai ae neburz
and tounzf6k, hd luvd Fridima az ae luvd aer on
laivz.
And non ae Dragun turned hiz venjens upon aiz
kaind-hdrted pipi; for hwen eni o aem venourd
wiain hiz boundariz hi wud koz gem to bi apri-
hended and plist upon ae rak, in order tu asurten
hiweaur is had eni akwi'ntans wix Fridima; and if'
aCd bitrid ae list simpaai wia hur or hur frendz, ae
torcur woz kontinyud until as6 daid. Sumtaimz (Xe
wer plunjd undur wotur and held abr until h if
sufoksted, aen rszd and plunjd agen, and ais ripit-
ed s6 az tu msk Xaem sufcr ae panz ov a duzn
deas; sumtaimz as wer konfaind in 16Dsum dun-
13

AT1t nts mub rbnc.


18
junz til as wasted aw'i -
ae fdvaitmddofd sa          ungur and diziz; but
cr fvuri t mod of Cistrojin "acm w oz baij Ibm
Qem Up kwaietli on (re nirest tr   s ha  i o
ee Friddnianz went on unti ot S      1sland  of
wiecr e horibi and   pno                 oz dfildl
korpsez.. Travelurz, hien  al steno o  dikdin
ded upon triz alo   er"  o s ae bodiz suspen-
rizol1n tnevrz tu ae r'said, wud ofh turn bak,
rizlvn leur to ateint a jumrni to  rtknr  gn
But e Dragun woz wel pi       tuaat k ntri agcen.
Fridsniansand hi snuft up afitid r az if it wor
rc swvit smelin dr o fiv a burnt sazkh ifi wer
s6 tdld hiz ministurz praivetli rat hfwen hi ha
brbt h6m Liz norcrurn braid hi watOh e  hr oad
deli in hiz karij tu v      '1wdtkhrout
d~  inLizkarJ tu vu~ hur jibeted fr'endadh
wud let hur n6 cat if -f   bd frendz, and hi
cud cer ae sem fit.    9monstrns gi
Rip6rts o   criz horurz riot  . irz
and med hur kin   e kldsur t hurz norurid ma,
Several K~ugan wimin hn had eskr nrctrn      r.
ov ae  lak Dragun found        s wpt ae forecurz
house . briin aer infants Wiae we Fm        faurz
lent  e hd1 stdri oy  c Blakaguzrom naemi
Hur tender htirt woz redi tu buraunz   keltiz.
ae litl Kugan babz tu hur bzm, a        n giklaspt
aem tirz and kisez.     -pdz t      gourin upon
hi gud start on a krus;d fPpod  tu r  daura
storm hiz kas], and klhaesta         lkDragun,
k1tr o  ae kaptivz  n  im if nesesari for ae res-
ofrd to akampan'i i and deliket az gi woz, 9
ofurdto aumpai him  on a is des put ekp"l
Cun. But hur fdaur aided     s fresurt fekspedi-
nes, and tdId hur cat  ' wd norl bri howrd-
91  ud not dali brim horef

I I

F_
x
$
4 ,
n4.
..'$
f

19

intu trubi but him als6; aat ae Blak Dragun woz
ae mdst pourful prins in ae land, and nekst tu
ae kin himself. Hi tdld hur ols6 aat hi woz ol-
redi in fir ov hiz laif, bikbz hi had not givn hur
in marij hwen dimanded. (en Fridima trembld
from hed tu fut, and hur ciks and lips gr wait
wica suprest im69un; for 9i so at hur fdaur, wia ol
hiz pour and grdtnes, had nd strena or kurej tu re-
zist eni demand hwic ae Blak Dragun mait mdk,
and at hi wud probabli, if drivn tu ekstremiti,
sakrifaiz ivn a doter tu sdv hiz n laif. S6 gi sist
tu urj him, but mentali rizolvd aat hwotevur mait
hapn gi wud kast hur lot wia ae pdr Kuans, and
aat adc ud hensf 6ra bi her pipl.
Ce friends and ndburz nou 96d abr strou sim-
paui for Fridima, and som ov aem     b6dli "pro-
nounst it a 94m uat ae gmdt Samunkl gud akt s6
kouardli a part. But ae g6ld-wurgipurz, and crc
waiz men ov ae 1b, and ae s61-dokturz on hiz juj-
ment hi rilaid, advaizd. him tu bi kb9Us, and en-
devur tu ristrdn hiz impecuus caild, and on n6
akount alou eni m6r Kuganz tu entur hiz hous.
Faindin hiz dbtur fikst in hur purpus, hi bigan tu
gr6 m6r and m6r unizi, for hi woz rizolvd not tu
giv hur up agenst hur vil. Hi aerf6r divaizd vd-
rius ekspidients tu sikrit and protekt hur ; but
ae kin ov ai Oksident and ae grit jujez ov. ea
kindum, hd wer in akord wia ae Dragun, disaided
aat ce prinses must bi givn up, akordiu tu ac
bond ov bitroaal hwich htir f iaur had konfest aat
hi saind. It woz not 1o bif6r nnz kdm aat mies-


20
enjurz from  e Blak Draginwer oeo.
tu sikur Fridima and konve hur tore     ard
hur aknolejd rmistur- Hur far hae abOd ov
sors left but tu send hur    -       nou nr
hevi. hart hi kbld hiz family tsuir for    a
ferwel, and t6ld hiz Wipin dt ugeatU for a hosti
tekt hur nd longmsr; tat      t no fiai for hur
a; aip hvrsel on      e   rvdens ov God and
a ins  az  ae  kaind h r ed  '  m
hur bai re w.  S6 hwen p hadi1 mbrt endur
kist hur, and. had put intu hr hdl embrdst and
iz for hur. jurni, gi stred f6-an uz a fu nesesa-
grimej, trustin in a 'woeful aronide penlu  pil
wd, but wie hart alittin poien       ugaid her
wS  it w i h itpalpipti  at  evuri  steiai  v a  1aintep,  for  fir
1 emisariz o r e Dragun malt bi upon hur trk
le mesenjurz, fdlin tu diskjvpo hur trak.
turned h6m and rildtd tu iev hDr     ntrt, nou
vencurz, and ae manur in hwic Fridnia hades-
kdpt. Ii woz faris in hiz reFj at rde madn f  hs
obstinasi; and are informdun (tat 9a   in for hr 
dund bai hur nacural protect a  ndg had bin6 ban-
but ue kivz and de forests, simd a   nid   hdm a
stimulus ov a nn aktiviti for  t aprm    him ae
hiz victim. Hi forawia diturrnind trseren eoy
nuk and kornur hwer ae panting 1Vitu meretev r
found geltur- So koiq            .j i   athar
found ezkr. S'   - -i'-tugea(ur (ae lordz and lddiz
, hiz fain aibblz 51      -
eksaitment l,   ,ae hwall gedin wiQ
Shi swor a damnab         a
mna had dilbure1.oa aat sins Frid.
mahad disbrdedti and skornfuli rijekted him, hi
wil upon hur, and ewdputhturtuw        h   hiz
puthrto   ee hairdest

minial lebur, until hur plump and rdzi form gud
bi wsted tu ae veri b6nz; and aen for a worm ir
hi wud ard cut hur skeleton tu hwaitn in ae opn
fild, alone wia ae kairkasez ov ae Kuanz and Fri-
ddnianz aat wer rotii in ac sun and blicin in (e
dfz and rdn. A klangur ov apinz, laik ae cirz ov
pandim6nium, ra  ard  (e pales  hl az hi ut rd  als-
horid oa.
And nou komenst ae grand hunt for ai inosent
and haples Fridima. A aouzand horsmen mount-
ed upon flit stidz, wia bludhoundz in aer tren,
wen started of tu skour ae mountinz and velz ov
Norland.  gryi. sulur and winter, in sprintaimi
and harvest, ae tramp ov abr stidz , and ae houlin
ov ae dogz sent terur tu ae harts ov ae pisful in-
habitants. Fridima woz nevur sdf, 6 Cae kaind
pezants did bl ac kud tu protekt hur. But 91 aot
not ov hrself aldn. Dsli and naitli gi sot out ae
pdr   Kaganz  hd  wer  flti i  from  (r  tormenturz, di-
rektin o(em tu Cae houzez and vilejez hwer .9i had
bin bifrended, and kerfuli pointin out tu aem ae
p61an stir, bai fol6in hwic as wud ric Sn6land,
a biturli k6ld kuntri, inaksesibl tu aIe Ku9an-
hunturz.

21'

1u9nlys Valporba.


23

CAPTUI IV.

RAVELIN     aru ae waildz ov    Norland,
hur tender limz eksp6zd tu ae sndz ov
winter and ae rdnz ov sumnur, ofn wiaout
a geltur in ce sivirest stormz, it woz eks-
pekted aat ae fril Fridima, if not kapcurd
bai hur enemiz, wud at Lena sink undur ac
haddips 9i had tu endar. But tu cai amndz-
ment ov bl, ae mdr sivir hur ekspdjur and sufur-
inz, ae stronger and helhiur 9i gru, and s6 luvli
in form and ficur aat ae pip1 bl bilivd hur a godes
endoud witi imortaliti. Meni ols6, hirin hur ndbl
wurdz in bihaf ov ae dispaizd Kuganz, diklerd
aemselvz redi tu fol6 hur, ivn tu ae Dragunz kasi,
for cre purpus ov resknin hiz mizurabl kaptivz.
(e Dragonianz, siin hou ae prinses had gend
ai afekunz ov cie multitadz, aplaid tu ae kin for
a lb tu punig wia dea 1 ha gud hsrbur or konsil
hur.   Gen ae kin brot ae matur bifdr ae grdt
kounsil, and it woz agrd cat ae hdl kuntri gud
join in ce sere aftur Fridima, and hdevur rifnzd
tu point out hr haidin plisez, or tu asist in apri-
hendin hur, gud bi sivirli punigt.

woz non ridnist tarue grdtest struts; bl hfrd
ta giv hur a naits lojin or a krm ov bred. In
hur ekstremiti 9i wondurd fair out intu ae grit
wildurnes ov ae west, and faindin a log kabin sat
doun bif6r it in a stdt ov komplit egzhbscun. It
woz okfipaid bai an 61d man huz nim woz Osa-
mi, ae faur ov siks sunz.   HiI woz ov a stern
kountenans and had a ruf grizli bird, and hwen
hi kem out tu ask Fridima hur biznes, gi s6 trem-
bid wia fir cat gi°kud not utur a wurd. Glen ai
61d man, hf i1ad a kaindli hart, sp6k tu hur ten-
d'urli, and invaited 'hur intu hiz kabin, hwer hi
t6ld hur .,gi mait hay a h6m az lon az 9 c6z tu
std, for hi so 'iat gi woz in distres. Aftur 91 had
wormd herself bai ic fair, hi priperd a frugal mil,
are best hiz hous afdrded. I-Iavin nou gsnd kon-
fidens, Fridima tdld him hd 9 woz, and hwai gi
had kum, and ov bi hur wondurinz in, ae waild
and dizmal forests wia ae fnjitiv Kuganz. Hwail
ac wer tbkin ai 61d manz f6r sunz, hd livd wia
him, kdm in from ar wurk, and lisnd tu hur std-
ri. 016 wer encanted wia ae fain silver tdnz ov
hur vois, and ae wd in hwic gi pled ae koz ov ae
pur dispaizd Kuganz drd f6ra bl abr simpaaiz. 016
admaird ae piriti and upraitnes ov hur sentiments,
and hur lofti and self-sakrifaizin benevolens.  Old
Osami pursivd aat aC wer dipli drinking in hur
spirit, but hi sat kwaietli and sed not a wurd. Az
ai ivnin wdr aws hi rdz from   hiz cr and tuk
doun a nnl hunting raifi aat hul in (le rum. Fridi-
ma n6tist a strdnj fair in hiz ai, and hiz ditermind

'R " OUT a g
C:P-l             , ab


24             Wapms         b
luk olmdst fraitnd hur, ad gi n n from hiz aptrans
aat hi' woz medittin no hirm tu hur. Aftur bur-
niim hiz raifl and putim hiz kirtrijez in ordur, hi
tdld Fridima aat sins hur faaur had fold tu akt
ae part ov a protektur, az hi woz bound tu dii
and had sent hur out intu ae k6ld wurld, hi wud
himself adopt hur az hiz on caild, and wud asnlm
ae rait and ae risponsibiliti ov a rent tu difend
hur agenst bl aat wud dd hur hirm. (le brua-
urz wormli risponded, and aedrd hur aat '  cud
evur bi trited bai aem az a dir sistur.
And nou, mal sunz, sed ai 61d man, yd had
betur get yur wepnz in redines for faitin. Gis
wurld iz ful ov tok and sinpaai, but tok and
simpaai nevur yet protekted ae helples. If yd in-
tend tu dilivur ais hunted lam from  hur persiku-
turz, yu must bi priperd tu di it at ace risk ov
yur laivz. Blud iz ae pfuaihiur ordsnd tu klenz
ae stdnz ov ais bad wurld. Si yd not oat ae land
iz ful oF leprusi?  It wil rikwair sumain m6r aan
wotur tu wog it out. Ai am an d1d man, and mai
laif iz not wura muc. Yu, mai sunz, ar yun ; ddu
az yd laik ; but az for mi, ai gal set maiself agenst
ae foul monster cuat iz wurkin b1 ais miscif. Ai
wil mek mai ws intu hiz fortres; ai wil enter hiz
pales; ai wil stand at hiz bedsaid; God helping -?,
ai wil send a gaft oat gal win its wd tu hiz hirt;
ai wil opn ae d6rz ov hiz dunjunz, and nok of ac
feturz ov hiz priznurz. And ae boiz sed ad wud
go wia him.   Gen Osami rict up hiz hand and
tuk doun from   ae 9elf a Buk, hwic t6ld ov ae

gage  Wahrha.25
Blak Dragun, and ov ae Red Dragun hiz fdaur,
and hou ae word agenst ac Lord, and hou ae juj-.
ments ov hevn gud kum doun upon aem in fficur
taimz. Aftur ridim a hwail hi fel upon hiz niz, az
hiz kustum woz, and prd ae grit Olff.aur aat hi
wud protekt Fridima, and dilivur ae Kuganz for
hur sek, and aat hi wud bre'k ae pour ov ae Blak
Dragun, and bani him from Norland and Sunland,
and from 01 ae grin spots ov kriegun, and sil Lim
up in t6fet fast and forever.
Hwen Fridima so intu huz handz 9i had fbln,
and hwot a hai and n6bl neur ae stern dld man
pozest, and felt hur h6ps ov hapines and sikciriti
wuns m6r rivaiv, hur hirt arobd waildli, for ae
joi woz tu grit fo hur, and 91 burst intu a flud
ov tirz. Di not bi eksaited, sed Osami; kompdz
ydrself, trust in God, and al vil bi wel. S6 gi
draid up hur tirz, and hwen ae had 61 bidn hur
a kaind gud-nait gi ritaird tu rest. Qi sun fel in-
tu a swit slumber, and drimd ov hapi sinz in a
wurid hwer 61 ai inhabitants luvd Ic uaur az brua-
urz.
Osami imidietli bigan tu mek prepareunz for
invedin ae dominyunz ov ae Blak Dragun. In-
spaird wia hiz nn aidia, hi vizited 61 hiz 61d frendz
and endevurd tu rouz aem tu a komun efurt for
ae distrukgun ov ae monsterr. Meni ov acm abt
hiz sm woz a gud wun, but disapriivd ov ae minz.
In ae furst pl6s ae abt it prizumcuus for a fu in-
divijualz tu get up a krussd agenst sue a venur-
abl antediluvian, hd woz ikwal and perhaps mdr


aan ikwal in pour and prestij tu ae suvurin him-
self. Sekundli, if eni ain woz tu bi dun, it gud
bi dun bai ae kin ov ace kuntri; and az hi woz at
pis and amiti wiaae Dragun, it wud bi triznus
for eni ov ae komun pip1 tu run kountur tu hiz
egzampl, or atemt tu eksiknt justis wiaout hiz or-
dur.  It woz jenurali admited aat abstraktli ae
Dragun had n6 rait tu opres and maltrit Ge Ku-
ganz; but az ion az hi did not medl wia ae Nor-
men and Norwimin, it woz dimd haili impolitik tu
stur up hiz r ia bai inturfirin in bihaf ov ae reced
and helples krfcurz he had ae misforcun tu fbli
under hiz pour. S6 e t6ld Osami pldnli aat ae
wud hav nuain tu did wiau hiz skimz; m6st ov aem,
indid, abt aat hi woz krezi, or wud sun bikum
s6. A fa pipl, hi sb hwot a worm   and jenurus
hirt hi had, and hon wilin hi woz tu sakrifaiz
himself tu help aem aat had n6 helpur, enkurejd
him in hiz undurtikin, and gdv him muni tu bai
wepnz, longuturz and gortguturz, and 9irp lansez
wia hwic ae Kuganz mait difend aemselvz agenst
aer opresurz.
Mintaim ae gret prinsez and lordz ov ae IDrag6.-
nianz, hiring Gat Fridima had tdkn refdij wiQ a wudz.
man ov ae west, sent f6ra aer emisariz in gret nuh-
burz tu sere hur out and brie hur tu Ge pales in
cenz, for ae Dragun had nou givn up ai aidia ov
mdkin hur hiz waif, and woz 6nli bent upon distroiin
(p
hur and hur frendz. Hiz bandits wer ordurd tu
plunder and 1' west ae nu kuntri, and kil of ae
Friddnianz az fast az a kud. Gret numburz wer

got and j'beted, stdr-houzez emtid, and vilejez
burnt, ardin ae hdl kuntri intu konsturneun. (Ie
sunz ov Osami wer tekn priznurz, aer Armz pin-
yund bihaind aem  wia aoniz aat kut tu ae b6n,
and in ais kondigun ae wer fasnd tu ae Drag6ni-
anz' horse, and med tu run Wia aem  az ae gal-
upt awe in ae burning hit tdrdz Sunland.   Wun
ov Gemf bikem  a meniak from   ae hitin ov hiz
bren; anuaur woz kild bai a wait devl-pricur, hd
abt it gret merit tu ofur him az a sakrifaiz tu hiz
god.
At lena Osami, having komplited     hiz  arenj-
ments, and faird ann bai ae birbdrian krdeltiz in-
flikted on hiz sunz and neburz, ardz sudenli and
tuk hiz dipircur for Sunland, akumpanid bai anri
ov hiz sunz and hiz suninlb, and a duzn trusti
woryurz.  dIe kem   upon ae Dragunz stronh6ld
bai nait, genin admigun wiaout difikulti. Kerfuli
filin aer we, ae enturd ar apartment nir ae pales,
hwic woz ful ov fairdrmz and grit gunz. and
poudur, furst mekin priznurz ov ae women hd
stud gird at ae d6r. From    ls rum ae h6pt tu
faind a pasej intu ae Dragunz bedcedmbur, in
hwic kes de' wud sun bi ebl tu fini9 him. But in
ais ekspekteun ae wer disapointed, and hwen ae
morning bigan tu dbn ae found aer entrans had bin
diskuvurd. Ule niz fi- laik laitnin ard ae pales
and ardout bl Sunland, and raidurz wer huriin
tu and fr6, bi waild az wia ai eksaitment ov batl.
Hwen ae Blak Dragun herd ae tumult and woz t6ld
ae koz, hi r6rd wia fari and. lagt hiz tel agenst

26                  kilapps LR" 4thx.

27


28               na
ae pales wblz til as guk az if rer bad bin an era-
kwek. Oe aundur ov hiz rdrin ek6d ivn tu ie
distant hilz ov Noriand, .kozin ai inhabitants tu
kwdk wia terur and    haid (emselvz wiin  abr
houzez. le Dragun olso kdm fdra ov hiz pales
and 96d himself in bl hiz jaigantik propdrgunz,
hiz form touring aloft tu ae rijun ov e stirz, dsrk
nin ae sun az a kloud, and ardin a glmi 9ad6
dvur ae h61 land. Pir Fridima sat krouci, solitary
and  trembling, in a mountin kiv; nun derin tu
minister tu hur wonts, or inkwair after hur wel-
fer, or ivn pronouns hur ndm.
And nou ae guvurnurz and re jenuralz and kap
tinz ov Suialand, wik an drmi ov horsmen aid
futmen, bigan tu gaaur from   bl kworturz -and
ad envairund Osami and hiz kumpanyunz, lidt ft
brdvli for Qer laivz, but wer at last dvurpourd. e
sunz ov aii d1d hired wer sldn, and hi himself woz
kapcurd, wended    and blidin, and dragd tu  e
kounsil-hous for egzamind un. And   e guvurnur
sed tu him, Ai no bl about ydr vilani; ai wont
n6 informdgun on aat point; but tel me, ndv, hai
sent yua hiaur?  Yu hay kum at ai instigdgun ov
Samunkl; t iz ov nd yds tu dinai it. Konfes,
and ai wil giv yd a for traial. len Osami, grdnir'
wia pdn, turnd Liz gdri hed and mikli riplaid,
Mai dfd iz mai dn; ai hay had nd kounsel or ad'
vais from SamunkI. Unless yi wil juj mi akordin
tu justis, ai wig nd traial; if y  dr ditermind tu
hay mai ubld, kil mi at wuns, for ai am  redi tu
dai. de gud .Buk telz mi ai gud ddi tu  aurrz az

29

ai wud hav% uaurz dd tu mi; and in siin tu pluk
ae kaptivz  from  ae tiau o  ae Dragun, ai hav
dun n6 m6r aan ai gud wig sum kind dilivurur
tu du for mi in similar surkumstansez.
Gen ae guvurnur, hii woz a Waizman, sed
wiain himself, Ai must not sitm tu kondem   ais
man for hdtin ae Dragun and bifrendin ae Kug-
anz, lest it gud knrit for him simpauaizurz ivn
amun ourselvz; but ai wil trai him for kiin and
murdurin ae s6ljurz aat wer sent agenst him.
S6 ae held a kdrt, and brat 6yurz and witnesez,
and mdd a grdt pardd ov justis and ligaliti, and
fainali ajujd him tu dea.   Glen ad t6ld him hi
must hav ae s61-dokturz tu konvert and klenz
him, s6 aat hwen hi daid hi mait not fol intu ai
evurlastin flsmz. But Osami wud nqt hirken tu
aer advais, and hi riturnd for ansur (at hi wud
giv- m6r for oe prer ov a pur Kugan muaur aan
for bl ae prarz and katekizmz ov ol ae s61-dokturz
ae Blak Dragun had in hiz emploi.
At lena ae irtur woz led fdra tu dai lhwail
a grdt irmi ov s6ljurz and horsmen wer paredod
around him  tu witnes ae spektakl and   traiumf
dvur Liz fdt.  And as hull him    up bitwin ae
hevnz and ai era, and woct him until hi Woz ded.
But n6 sunur had ae spirit eskdpt from  ae bodi
can it spred abrod in ai atmosfir, fil ne windz
wik strinj hwispurz, and flitin hir and aer, laik
a g6st, ard bl 0ae land. It disturbd ae lordz and
prinsez ov ae Dragunz k6rt in abr midnait drimz;
and ae yun men and wimin ov Korland bigan tu

95 A


30

bria a fregor and pfirur er, and tu fil nu inpulsez,
and tu yern aftur ae 1o g-luvd and banigt Fridi-
ma. Wiain ti yfrz from Osamiz dea, ae pipi had
jenurali kum  tu ae konvikgun 'at hi woz yet
huvurin .dvur ae: kuntri, in ac 94p ov a girdian
dnjel; xaat insted ov ritairin difited from  ae kon-
teAt wia ae Blak Dragun, hi had joind ai irmi
ov ae Lord; aat hiz napsak woz stil strapt upon
hiz bak, and hiz s61 mlrciji on.

I

CAPTUf RV.

URSfVIN aat ae afekgunz ov ae Normen
wer inseparabli twaind around ae jenti
Fridima, ae Drag6nianz bigan tu koisult
hou dd mait brik up ae kindum, and form
a nn guvurnment ov hwie ae lBlak Drag-
un gud hay ae s61 pozegun. Old Publik
Funlk9unari, hd had lon - bin kin ov ae
Yunaited Oksident, and hd had ofurd td hundred
and fifti silvurlinz for ae kap9ur ov Osami, woz
about tu end hiz ren, and aer wer glimi apri-
hengunz aat hiz suksesur wud not bi s6 frendli tu
ae Blak Dragon az hi had bin. iwen ae taim
kim for apointin a nn rdlur, aer woz grdt eksait-
ment ard ae land. And on a set de ae virius
traibz asembld, ae Drag6nianz, and ae Dem6kri-
anz, and ae Frid6nianz, and ae Publikanz, and
ai Iradikdturz, and ae Konservaturz, and ae
multitndz ov ae pipl bda in Norland and Sun-
land, t witnes ae kastin ov ae lots. And meni
ov aem  sat up wocin bi nait, hwail ae siurz and
Zgurz konsulted ai 6menz. And hwen ae nornin
woz kum, bih6ld ai er woz ful ov fblin livz, hwic
ae wind had bldn fair and waid dvvr ae kuntri.
And hwen ae pipi had pikt acm up, and eg-

Txiut  Thibx.


32

,mM  nv s11 aI r bm~

zanaind aem kerfuli, as found ritn upon aem  ae
nom  ov MAGNUS MAHARBA. S6 ad nu Gat
ais woz ae ndm ov Ger nekst kin.
Glen woz aer grdt kom69un in Ge pales ov ae
Dragun, and ae lordz and prinsez and lddiz ov
hiz houshold wer field wia indignsgun, for ae had
herd ov Magnus Mahdrba, aat hi woz an onest
man, and wun Gat luvd justis and ekwiti, and
hens ad inferd aat hi must bi an enemi ov aer
mistur.  ed had olsd' herd it rip6rted Gat Fridi..
ma, dlrin hur travel, had spent a nait at hiz
hous, and instild intu hiz maind hur fanatikal
planz for letin his ae Kuganz, and living ae Drag-
un tu dai ov stdrvdgun. S6 ae effs and n6blz as-
embld and drd p ae cdrtur ov a nn kindum for
ae suport and difens ov abr bgust patron and biz
projeni, and for ai ekstengun ov hiz and abr gldri,
influens and pour dvur l Oae landz and siz, and
for ai ekstermindgun ov aer enemiz bai fair and
s6rd. And ad coz Prins Jefur tu bi aer kin, and
hiz cif ninisturz wer Lord Sepulkur, and Lord
Judas, and Munimungur, and Ndvimaladi, huz ofis
it woz tu mik desoldt ae siz and tu beri in dip
woturz ae ips ov Samunkl. And for hiz jen-r-
alz hi had Grdtbrag, and Pretigdrd, and St6ni-
jon, and St6nijak, and B6ldrobin. And ad rizd
a grit drmi and tuk pozegun ov ae stronholdz and
kaslz, and sized meni gips and gunz, bisaidz Gdz
hwic had bin .sfkretli givn aem bai ae servants ov
Publik Funk9unari.
Nou hwen ae lordz and kounselurz ov ai Oksi-

33
dentalz hd wer asembld in   parliment herd aiz
ainz, a  wer fild wia alarm. And ad sed amui
aemselvz, Wi must bai bl minz pasifai ae Dragun,
and giv him hwotevur hi dimandz, uaurwaiz wi
gal bav wor and bludged, and our hapi land wil
bikum a land ov straif and tumult, laik ai enent
kindumz ov ai orient. Aftur muc angri dibst,
sum biin in fsvur ov ae Dragun and sum agenst
him, ad agrid tu mdk a triti ov purpecual pis and
amiti on aiz kondigunz, ne'mli, aat hiz majesti ae
Dragun woz tu bi rekognaizd az suvuren ov ae
kuntri konjointli wia ae rsnin kin ; but hi woz not
tu strec hiz drmz or fit, or ae 9ad6 ov hiz oaoriti,
dvur eni ov ae nn western landz aat had bin
purcest bai Samuukl; sekundli, aat Fridima gud bi
givu him tu waif akordin tu ai orijinal agriment;
lastli, aat Sarnunkl and ge Normen gud entur intu
a solem - kuvenant wiG ae Dragun aat ad wud
not molest him in ae focur, nor spi'k ov him  dis-
rispektfuli az ad had dun; and wud undur nd sur-
kumstansez alou eni flaiin Kugan tu tdk refntj in
abr bordurz; and aat ais kuvenant gud never bi
olturd, hwail sun, men and stdrz 96n in ae hevnz,
or hwail mountinz, siz and rivurz mrkt ae divi-
junz ov ai era. S6 as sent out ae dikri nora, soua,
ist and west, aat bl ae land mait konfurm it.
But it woz non td1 it; for ae Blak Dragun,
siin Ge kouardis and konsturnsgon ov ae kin and
hiz kounsil, bigan tu strec himself m6r and m6r.,
and diklerd aat hi wud aksept ov  rain les aan
undivaided swd from 69un tu 69un strdt akros Ge
c


kontinent, and from hwer ae noraurn laiun 94ks
hiz sndi men tu hwer ae suaurn aligtr sunz
himself on ae sandi 96r ov ae Grdt Bd sn. lie
Normen ols6 wer disphzd wia ae nA kuvenant
and rifazd tu konfurm it. And ae pourful Sam-
unkl bigan tn 96 hiz spirit, and tu dinai aat hi
had ever promist hiz dhtur in marj tu ae Drag-
un; for hiz hart smdt him  hwen hi herd ov ae
krdel sufurinz tu hwie Fridima had bin ekspdzd
in hur wondurinz, and bi riprdct himself for ac
kouardli part hi had . akted in sending' hur of in-
sted ov manfuli standing up and protektin hur wia
ae brbni muslz ov hiz strong arm.     At last hi
went tu ai aturniz and tu ai dngents aat wer
skild in ae lb, and dizaird aem  tu egzamin ae
pdiroments ov bitroaal bai hwic it woz klimd aat
hiz dotur had bin konsaind in wedlok tu ae snski
monster. Aftur dilijent sere and kerful disaifurin
ov ae maniuskripts, ae libyurz giv aer opinyun aat
nd evidens ov a bitroaal -egzisted, and aat ae dok-
iments rilaid on tu prav it had n6 valid berin
on ae kis. (len sed Samunkl, God forgiv mi
aat ai hav akted laik a fil; Fridima gal riturn,
and ai wil defend hur, 'if nid bi, wia mai laif.
Hwen ae taim kdm for Magnus Mahirba tu as-
end ae ardn, bi ai 6menz wer unpropigus.    (le
skai lourd, ae kloudz got fdra laitninz, aundurz
mutur 1, vaipurz and ratlsndks kdm bisia from  aer
denz, and ae hai priest, aat woz tu p6r on hiz lied
ai anointing oil, woz a dirk daiabolikal Drag6nian.
Nou Magnus Mahnirba woz ov a kwaiet and pis-

ful temper; hi luvd evuri bodi, and sot ae gud ov
bl men, and hiz gritest ker woz aat hi mait nevur
injur an enemi, but wia ivnhanded j stis trit frend
and f6 alaik. N6 kin had evur bif6r held ae skdiz
ov justis wia s6 impirgal a hand. In hiz hrt hi
hited ae Blak Dragun; but inaznuc az hi had bin
konstitted kin dvur b6a gud and bad, hi woz ri-
zolvd aat bad and gud gud ikwali .er hiz protek-
gon. Hi had lernt from ae prists and sol-dok-
turz aat hwen ai Olmaiti fagund abr planet wia
hiz fingurz, and r6ld it out from ae depas ov
aur, a m6ltn and fair bbl, ivn aen hi ordsnd it
tu bi ae facur habitigun ov ae Blak Dragun, and
pridestind aat kinz and prinsez gud du him onur,
and gud protekt him, and gud alou him a ser-
tin p6r9un ov abr rds for hiz workmen, and for
hiz wud and wotur kaniurz, and for hiz medser-
vants, and for mercandaiz, and for sakrifaiz on
hiz olturz, and for hwotevur purpusez hi mait
find it konvinyent tu ydz aem. But ai Iradike-
turz tdld ae kin aat ae s61-dokturz wer ron; aat
ae Dragun woz a yuzurpur and an outlo; aat hi
woz not a kricur ov God but ov ae devl, and
aat it wud bi rait tu kil him and aio out biz
kirkas tu blie in ae rdnz ov hevn wia ae karkas-
ez ov ae pur inosents hum  hi had murdurd.   ie
kin lent a wilin ir tu aiz opinyunz, for hi abhord
opregun ; and ola6 hi abt it wud bi ron for him
tu tsk ae laif ov wun ov Godz kricurz, ovur him
hi had bin plist az a rdlur, yet hi sikretli wigt
at God himself, if hi disaprdvd ov ac Dragunz

r-


36

dtinz, wud send doun a aundurb6lt ti distroi him
and aius riliv ae land ov its foulest and worst en-
emi.
iwen Magnus Mahdrba woz anointed kin, hi
stud up on ae arn and mdd a sp'c tu ae p pl,
akordi tu oae kustum ov ae kuntri, s6 aat bl mait
understand ae prinsiplz ov hiz guvurnment and
hwot woz tu bi ae manur ov hiz rdl. HiI told em
hi wud not alou Norland and Sunland tit bi di..
vaided, for hi had tdkn hiz da tu prizerv aem in
yinyun az wun kuntri; yet hi wud grant ae
Drag6nianz evuri induljens aat woz posibl. Olad
ae Blak Dragun woz ofensiv tu ae Normen, hiz
raits gud bi rispekted; and if eni ov hiz kaptivz
eskspt, ad gud bi hunted up and rist6rd tu him;
and ae pipl ov Sunland gud bi left tu manej abr
dn aferz az ae s  fit, provaided ad wud not siz
ae forts and kaslz bilonin tu ae kin, nor inturfir
wia ae gips and trddin ov Samunkl.
Gus kaindli did ae  n  kin endevur tu ald ai
iritseun ov ae Drag6nianz, but t n6 purpus. (1
ansurd him bak wia skorn aat hi woz n6 kin ov
aerz; aat ad had not edzn, nor wud as aksept
him; aat ad had provaided a guvurnment for,
aemselvz; and az for ae kinz pour tu enf  rs a
yiinyun bitwin aem  and ae Normen, ad difaid
him. And ad gaaurd ar flits and Armiz and set
aem in batl ard agenst ae kinz garisunz, for ad
wer impdgent tu bigin ae wor.

CAPTUR VI.

TONIPAIL kasl, on ai isturn k6st ov
Sunland, woz wun ov ae kinz stronholdz
bilt bai Samunk1 at grit ekspens, az a ssf.
gird agenst foren invidurz. It stud at ae
moua ov a 1 ur, and woz girded bai ae
servants ov Samunkl, hd had ordurz tu ads
mit n6 viziturz nor alone eni veselz tu pas
wiaout ae kinz purmigUn. And ae DragOn sent
a mesenjr In ae kaptin ov ae garisun, siin, Giv
mi ae ki ov ae kasi, ([at mai woryurz md entur
in and oknpai it, for it iz bilt upon mai terituri
and aerf6r bilonz tx mi. And 41e kaptin and as
aat wer wia him rifazd,- for -a sed, Wi must
obs ai ordurz ov our kin, and wiaout hiz purmi--
gun wi kan giv admitans t n6 wun. And Prins
Jefur sed, Non iz our taim; let us storm ae kasi,
and s6 brie on wor, and Gen wil ol ae pipl ov
Sunland bi yunaited az wun man, and wi wil fair
abr hirts agenst ae tairant Mahirba, and wil gd
out agenst him in batl, and wil 6vurard and dis-
troi him, and wil entur hiz pales and rl ae h61
land.  And hi gsy 4e komand, and Dnk Preti-
gird surounded ae kasl, and bumbirded it wk
hiz artiluri, and ard upon it gelz and kombus-

CTR  x b.


tiblz, setin it on fair, and filia it Wia sm6k and
fldmz. And hi drov out ae men aat wer set tu
gird it, and tdr doun Ge kinz banur and put in its
plds ae banur ov ae ratlsndk and Dragun. And
ae touted and san, and mdd meri dvur abr vikturi.
And hwen Magnus Mahirba sb hwot woz dun,
hi sent wurd tu Samunkl, and bad him g6 ar ae
land and kolekt arf skdr and fiftin nouzand wor-
yurz tu fait for abr kin and kuntri, and to rikuv,
yr ae forts and kaslz aat had bin kapeurd. (len
woz Samunkl glad, for hi %ad 1o bin impdcent
tu avenj ai insults ov ae Drag6nianz, and had bin
angri wia ae kin ' for hiz ekstrIm  forberans. i
had ols6 t6ld hiz frendz praivetli aat Fiaur Mag-
nus gud not ristrdn him muc longur, for if hi kud
not obtain ridres uaurwaiz, hi wud tdk ae l5 intu
hiz 6n handz. Az sun az hi risivd ae kinz man-
ddt tu sumun ae woryurz, hi rdz up in hest tu
eksiknt ae komigun. And aer woz trampin tii and
fr6, and mesenjtrz huriin dvur p14n and mountain,
and ae er woz alaiv wia ae sound ov musturin"r
futsteps and ae ratlin and burnigin ov wepnz.
And Samunkl konsulted wia ae ric men ov G6-
aam, and hi kounseld aem ti 6pn ae selurz hwern
as kept abr trejurz, and bria out ae g6ld ant woz
hidn bihaind aer wblz, and giv it inta ae hand
ov ae kinz ofisurz for purcesin wepnz, and for
bildin gips, and for k16ain and fidin ae woryurz.
And as ansurd him fsvurabli, and promist tu giv
ae kin l1 aat hi nided.
Nou ae siti ov G6aam woz a Edbelaitig siti,

v 8               Li 1u J1Yu  li44arb r.

and ae langwej ov ae pipl diskordant. And meni
ov Gem wer Drag6nianz, hd apird in ae garb ov
Dem6krianz, rizembiin (em s6 kl6sli aat ae komun
1ip kud skersli tel ae diferens. Cie mercantz
and marinurz wer jenurali frendz ov ae Dragun,
bikbz abr weld woz msd bai trafikin in ae skdlz
hwic fel from hiz bodi, for hi 9ed hiz skdlz evuri
yir, and ad wer ov a fain and bntiful tekscur, and
suseptibi ov a grit varaieti ov kulur and polig,
and hwen mannfakcurd intu r6bz and vestments
wer muse admaird and sbt aftur bai ae mercants
ov foren kuntriz. (le Dragun had nou put a stop
tu ais trafik; meni, aerf6r, hd had priviusli advo-
ksted hiz kbz, sudenli turnd agenst him, diklerin
aat ad had olwez dislaikt him in aer harts, and
aat hensf6ra ad abjdrd and rinounst him forever.
(11d fn went s6 fdr az tu se it woz not fit aat
sue a monster gud liv. (Le anr waiz -men ov G6-
aam, at hiz lips ae pipi wer akustumd tu tik
advais, and hdz ndmz wer Taimservitur, Triban-
osofur and Hrlikin, had until nou bin divaided
in kounsel. Wun rekomnended jentines and for-
brans tdrdz ae Dragun; anvaur woz wili ae
monster and- bi aat ltvd him gud dipirt and bi
gon, and form a pandim6nium for aemselvz, sue
az as dcz; hwail ae aurd rifazd tu giv advais
Iaur wd, not n6in1 hweaur Kin Magnus or Prins
Jefur wud prdv ae stronger.    But hwen ad so'
ae ki1z flag t6rn doun, and ae s6ljurz ov Sam-
unkl faird upon and drivn out ov abr kasi, and
ae ratlsndks traiumfin 6vur its ruinz, aiz ari waiz


jj
[  i
t f
$'8 I   i
i,  t
a . i
73  t t
(; l t
11j
I.
'j , 3
;i ('
111
i r
j
(i
t

! ' 1
f  _
k
k
f
,
f

40

men stud up wia yunaited vois and bad
kum forward at ae kbl ov abr kin, and wo out
ae stdn on Qer banur wic ae blud ov adz aat had
insulted it. And  re mulitd rut wi   wun
pois intu c  kounsil gr6, and ae cif woryurz,
and ai d1d men, and ae mercants, and ae lyurz
and spiricual dokturz harangd aem aer, and egz-
horted gem tu fait for aer olturz and inherit
and ae kuvenant ov er fdaurz. And ae grv ri-
zounded wiif gouts, and traikulurd banurz wer hua
upon evuri tri, and ae pipl lifted up  er hn
t6rd hevn and tuk a solem da -at u wudialn
nd .Dragun kindum  tu bi establigt upon aer soi
And ue guvurnur ov ae siti, hiz nevi woz Rotn
wud, a cif ov ae Drag6nianz, woz  er- and hie
the multitad diskuvurd him ae krouded around
him and aretnd him, and tdld him iat hi ols'
rdz hiz vois for hiz kin and kuntri, or els bi
kounted for a trdtur. S6 as kompeld him tu
mount ae vinigur barel and gout for Magnus 1\o u
hirba and Samjnkl.
And ae grdt drmi ov 'Samunkl woz gaaurd
akordin tu ee kinz komandment and ad komenst
abr mirc intu Sunland. But ae jenuralz wer k
eund tu dil jentli wia ae lordz and prinsez ov ae
Drag6nianz, and on n6 akount tu msk wor upon
ae I)ragun himself, but dnli tu 96 him ho
potent hi woz tu kontend wie ae f6rsez ov i
kin, and aus fraitn him intu gud bih6vyr i
kud not bi wun bai kaindnes. And hwen Dctk
Botlh6ldur and Dnk Miklmak1 enturd intu ae

41

prag6nian kuntri, as f rst ov bl i9id ar prokla-
iunz, enjoinin upon aer folourz and 01 ae pipi
tu onur and rispekt ai oaoriti ov ae Blak Dragun,
and wornill ae Kaganz aat if as imprivd ai opor-
tniti ov aer misturz distres tu raiz agenst him,
s wud bi krugt wis an aiurn hand. But hwail
aeeifs ov ae Normen wer s6 tender ov ae Drag-
n, and s6 kerful tu injur hiz lordz and nobimnen
az lit1 az posibl, ae Drag6nianz fot wi a(e ut-
m6st strena and ftari, 91n fsvr niaur ta hai nor
16.  Hwen ae kil so aat bl ae smbl batlz wer
gdix agenst him, and cat insted ov bin imprest
wia a h6lsum  dred ov hiz pour, ae Dragonianz
wer dnli ae m6r imb6ldnd, hi kbld for Dulk Diit-
wel, and bad him komens ae wor in ernest. And
hi sent him wia td sk6r and ten ifjunz ov stalwura
woryrz, ordurin him   tu mdk an 6vurhwelmin
asolt on ia sentral Drag6nian armi, and aftur di..
fitin tu pursue aem ivn tu ae gdts ov Riemantoun,
aer kapital.  len Diak DUitwel krost ovur ae
Bounarimirk rivur and enturd Vurjinland. Af-
tur mrein toddz hi km   tu a smbl strim kold
BulskamIpur, on ai uaur said ov hwic le ac Dra-
g6nianz stronli fortifaid, and redi for an atak.
And ae Normen advanst and fht a em an dez
and ari naits, but kud not disloj em, for aer cifs
wer 61d woryurz, auruli skild in aer airt, and (fe
wsrili kept tu aer intrencments and wud not fait
on ai 6pn field. But on ac f6ra de ae market out
and joind bati, and f t wia despurdeun; and aer
woz a grdt slotur. And hwen ae sun woz goit

2YU.5 c tl"aI, rb
l1w

Txtwt


(VVvI
.nms v t~ta

doun, and ae Normen wer fdnt and wi'ri, rd so 
spektur nomd Pan, and ad trembld wia: grdt fir-
And hwen a fa ov aem bigan tu flai, e terur spread
amun ae rest, and ad lukt ais we and aat, and 16
ae spektur woz kids upon Gem. And Gs gdv a
krai, and aru awe aer gunz and napsaks, and aban-
dund er wagunz and kanun, and ran az if ai ermt
wer klivin asunder bihaind aem.; ad pzd niujr
tu it or drink til ad got bak tu ae royal siti. But
aer enemiz did not pursn Gem, for ae abt it woz
a ruz.  And ae nekst mornin ad sent fora Qer
skouts tu egzanin ae batl field, and tu faind hwer
ae Normen wer. And hwen ae had fuli secret ae
rajun around, and so Gat ai drni ov Samunkl had
indfd gon bak, living Ge r6dsaidz str6n w gdr-
nents and wepnz huridli kast awe, ar kurej ri-
vaivd, and ae routed and danst, and prokldmd a
grdt vikturi, and bl Sunland woz field Wi   SOnz
and festiviti.
And ae gaaurd aer sien and winded and bed
ae ded. But meni ov ae Normen wer left abuv
ground, and hwen ae fie9 had diked and fhon
of, ae karid ae bdnz tu aer tents, and man.
fakcurd aem inta drir.kin kups, and finger rinz
and nekle'sez, and bl manur ov kurius ornaments
tu prizent tu aer waivz and swfthairts, az' tdknz
ov Ger valur, ; and tu han up az tr6fiz in aer
kolejez and muziumz, alone wia ae skin ov Osamiz
sun, and ae skalps and skeletunz ov   raurz aat
had bin sakrifaizd in onur oV ver god.

CAPTIUR VII

ORTIFAID and konfounded at ai un-
lukt for dizastur ov Bulskampi', ae kin
a  hiz lordz and hiz parliament bigan
tn doubt hwebgur ae ud b iA to fraitn
SD    nf out ov hiz insolent bai kilin
of ara6rgn ov hiz servants and adhir-
t  and hweaur it WUvd not i betr tu
ents,kti  on" ontrhimself. But
m~ek wor direktli upont ae inonstur islf    u
e kiw sed, Let us dui  justli, and let us sper hiz
laif if psebl. Al hav tkn an da tu prizerv him,
akriifib s en ent stacuts; yet notwiastan
diakord m a  oblig eu n  tu  ae  k ntri  iz  gr tur.  It
iz ae fiziounz daiti tu sv hiz pdent wi hiz limz
entair if hi kan; but if hi faindlz ais imposih, aen
hi iz justifaid in kutin of a lim tu siv ae manz
laif.  6 wil ai du wia ae Dragun; hwen it hi-
kumz sertin aat ai kanot sv him waout endin-
-urin ae kindum, ai wil liv him tu hiz fst, and hiz
vaiolens gal kom doun upon hiz n hed, and ai
a1 bi giltles ov hiz hlud. Gden sed ae kinz koun-
selurz  Let a part ov ae Dragunz pour hi tikn
awz, and let sum ov L'z andz hi konfiske'ted, and

42


44

let az meni Kuganz az dir fdrst tu help him in hiz
'wikd wr h rifstfrom ifer bondoj,' and hi in..
waited tu tsk geltur undur ao stri banur, and fr-
evur aftur let cem bi fri from anservis and oor-
iti ov Qcr krdel mdistur  Gl  al servia  Dar-
gun in a tondur spot, and      il b     ad,
andwilhi onpol  tus~for pis on sue termz
az wi md diktdt. And (re kin   g.v      set,
and adi rdt e dikri, and it woz rikzor kon
Qe stacuts ov ae reim.oamu
Sun aftur ais, wun ov ae kinz cift
woz Dnk Frimantl, durin hiz zmircez in az west,
iskuvurd wun ov ae Dragonz lon    rmz"okstend..
ed out intu io nn kuntri and grasping a stek hwi
hi' had planted aer az a sain ov hiz tbfu l pone vn.
And Frimantl tuk hiz staf and hd      pozegand
h6ld on ce jaigantik po, and boundiste, and t t
stdk, and gdv ordurz tu hiz ofisrz    t t ue
brain s6rdz and aksez and naivz, and kut it of.
Gen ue Dragon hould wi' a bitur    d mutitlo.
entabl houl, (at r ct ivn tu oe ale an  fo upon
ai irzor ae kin. An-shadfen                pon
i.               And hwen ae kin had in1 wv.d
and lernt e kbz, hi sent a mesen-ur t  ik Fir.
mantle, and ribalkt him, and ordurd hi u nklFr..e
Dragunz arm, and in nd waiz tuse it roe
hiz bodi, az cie Wiind mait piv fdtal, and even hi
wud bi gilti ov ae Dragunz blud   B3 nmnhi
wed not Is ie bandz, for hi rigdrded   rianti
sue a nonstur az nd murder. lN   r      ouOV
rispekt tu oe kinz ordurz, hi lete pe   ot az
it woz, until Daik Huntsman woz sent z kut

i
w
prC
E
A

I

r6ps and giv' ai 61d reprobit anuar cans for hiz
Bt b1  e kinz kaindnes bad n6 oefekt upon ae
ranfor hi woz az proud and impirius az ev-
ur. Glen ae kin kbld for faiv hundred lijunz ov
oryuz, in adignl tu a6z hi oredi had, and h1
t yk  t  hundred  1 juz  ov  are  br."vo t,  and  plest
Da k Mikmak1 at crer hed, and ordurd aem tu
'"c valyantli but wir li, and t6k pozeoun ov ai
enemiz kapital.  And   uk Mikmak1 sed tuae
kin, Ai mst trn and tic (Lem bif6r ai kan lid
aem tu mit e Drag6nianz, lest Id g4d not bi d1
wstd       'rp ej ov bati, and gud bi put
tu wi l. stand ae garejo
tu konfajul az at Bulskampur, and wi bi agen
brot tu 96m.
And ie mnxui in ae kiz kofurz bigan tu gro
skant, and  e g6ld sist tu f6 from  bihand ae
wolz ov G6aam, and from ae vblts - ov Bruarsit
nd Bivztoun, and Rickrg6, and ae rivur banks
hwer ae kinz ofisurz had dig4 s6 suksesfulh yi1-
ded no mor.   Len Magnus Mahirba med hiz
n   Lu hiz ministers and waiz men, and
wonits nont
ased, Woz not mi in dn9ent taim obtsnd from
1e moa ov a f11  And tu hum   gudiae k.luk
for silver and g6ld but tu Lord Grinfi, hum hi
haz appointed tu bi dvur -hiz trejuri?  And ae
grdt kounsil past a dikri at e lord, trejurur gud
bi rikwaird tu riplenig ae egzh bsted costs, and aat
hi gud bi purmited tu mangyfakcur mum   out ov
hwotevur matfrialz hi abt m6st konvinyent, and
at eni substans stampt and koind in (Le trejur


46                 Ma      alta
nilz 9ud bi kounted for ae trd koin and kurensi
ov ae reim. And Lord Grinfig multiplaid hiz
z, and kast aeri i61d kldaz and daivurz linen
and kotn fabriks, and aer k'm  out btiful soft
muni, stampt wia imejez ov ae kin and hz lordz
and ilustrted wia b1 manur ov strdn' and k^ rius
divaisez. And ae kulur ov it woz grin, laik a
kulur ov ae dgun.   And hwen ae kin so it lii
woz wel satisfaid, and Samunkl tuk it and sur-
klltd it aru ae kuntri, and ae pipi were dilait-.
ed, and yuzd it for trafik and for ae piment
ov tribut and kustumz, and nd longer komphihd
ov aer burdnz.1
Lord Siwordur woz ols6 wun ov ae cif minis-
turz ov ae reim, and hi woz apointed tu woe ae
kinz and kuntriz biyond ae siz, ad
d' 'an' o tupivent aer
sendin ovur veselz and rend urin asistans tn ae
Dragun.   And Lord Dipwotur had cir oy ae
tips ov Samunkl, and hi sent aem tu gr ae i-
irn  kost  ov  Sunland,  and  t  fao inri isilz  ..-
on ae Dragonianz, and tu draiv aem out ov aer
sitiz, and tu ritdk ae fortresez ov Samunkl hwir
had bin stdln from him. And ae veselz skourd
alone ae 96r and went around tu ae soua ov Sun-
land; and enturin intu ae Grdt 'sn ad past on'
and ke'm tu ae moua ov Faaurwotur rivur, on
ae bank ov hwic 14 ae gret siti F'vuropo-  A
Dk   Botlhldur  went up     ivrps      And
stored ae fortresez and tuk ae ti , and 
in ae nm ov Kin Magnus Mahdrba. And hi rld
ai enemiz ov ae kin wia igur, b6a. Hise9 ad.

47

-but hi gvrnd ae pip1 raicusli, and diliv-
Kuanz out ov ac handz ov aer opresourz.
iwall ae gips wer aus nmkini konkwests on
n  6r Dnk Miklmakl mend i     ae ro-
yal sitir erfuli trdnin hiz ti hundred lijunz, s6 aat
yen ae spsi    6pnd hi mait mdv am forward
t   erdn sicinantopn.Az sun az ae Wintur had past
e l rdrd him tu mk hest and bi gon, and
old hi  aat sins hi woz afrd tu lid hiz wor-
yurz bai ae we ov BulskampUr, hwer ae had si
ae spektur, hi mait tesk  cm around bai 9ip ta
{ i1st ov ai enemiz siti and mirc from aens bai
ai     and i     'zi rd.  S6 ad tuk  ip and landed
ona rtaurn zr-ov Vurjinland, and mirct t6rd
ac Dragunz stronh6ld. And hwen Dak Mikimaki
a                  sit, and biheld ae spairz ov
had kom   nir tu ae sta
p   and ae fortifikigunz bihaind hwi ace
eragn had intrenct himself, and ae vast rmiz
aat wer gaaurd around ae pl~      o  t    ies
kud  dforz ov ee horsez and ac
w                 uvin in ae distans, and aI opn
rourz OV aa gret black gunz, iz hdrt sunk wiain
him, and ac joints ov hiz niz bikim les and hiz
totrrin. And hi kbld for a spid, and sed
tu hiz woryurz, lwot yd si mi dd, aat dd yi ols.
And hi bigan tu dig in ai era, and tu kast p
- ,         w    hi hadatnasf-
a bank bif6r him, and hwen -      atwoz   si-
gent depa, hi sat doun in it,o andw e    ikud
protekted  agenst eni misi1 hwic ai e
hurl at him. And as" b1 did s6; and hiz woryrz
dug for ,emselvz kumfurtahl h6lz in    hwie ae

; ,_' ;.
_ --
r , ,
i, , t,".
t ,
y(
F'  j

Ilys Lqathbao
4 , as,


48              Tatnvs Tr axe
mait kronc and bi sikar. And as wer wel plizd
for a taim, but ae soil woz swompi, and aer haid.-
i1 plesez biksm damp and unh6lsum, and as were
atakt wia fivurz and rdmatizmz, and ar bigan tu
perig bai hundredz in a de.   And hwenevur a
woryur daid, ar kuvurd him up in hiz h61 and
smudd ai era abuv him, az it woz bif6r ae digin.
And Dnk Miklmakl ardz on a klir mornin and
lukt dvr ae pldn, and ld, ae ground woz b1 bi.
kumin smrar and level, and in sum p16sez skiers a
singl dpn h61 woz tu bi sin. Gen hi pursivd aat
if hi rimdnd a fa wiks longer, ae meddz wud bi
ristdrd tu crabr orijinal buti and stilnes, and bi
grinur and grasiur aan evur, and hi wud hay ak-
ompli~t nuain eksept ae berial ov hiz woryurz bi-
nfar adm. And hwen hi abt on ai ansur hi gud
mik tu ae kin, and hon hf kud akount for ae los
or hiz drmi, hi woz filed wi ae mdst gldmi antisi-
peunz.
And non ai enemiz horsmen bigan tu. kroud
around him mdr kldsli, galupin in hiz rir evuri
nait and -uretni tu kut of hiz ritrit. Glen hi so
aat hi must iaur fait or flai. At last hi rimem-
burd having herd ov a fain river hwio 14 about
f6r dsz jurni tu ae soua, and after konsultir hiz
cif kaptins, hi ditermind tu mire akros ae swomps
ana morasez tu faind it. Ge h61 lrmi woz akor-
dini put in mdgun, and plunjd b6ldli intu ae bogs
and fenz, hwer ae' sun bikem envelupt in kloud
and mist, and in dens forests kuvurd wia hanin
mos, ard hwic ae sun kud seldom  penetrit. .Ce

= r                   '49
b6 herd teribi houlinz bai nait, and spektorz and
goblins wer porpecuali fiitin akros aer paz, and
6z cat wer' sik and fibl wer tormented du
horibi aprihen9n aat Ae ud be left bihaned t
bi a prd for ce waild bists and monsturz ov e
)
Az sn az ae Drag6nianz so aat e Normen
had enturd ce swomps d6 klapt uer handz for joi,
and rIgt aftur Dem, and dvurtuk  em, an  a
rem bif6r and bihaind, and planted   aeian  s
ages ce, and fbt   em de aftur de, anduost
aem wi aer kavari, and kut doun and bucurdr
grt nmburz. But ae trps ov Samun    t     nr
ground brdvli, and hurid bak (ter pirsnarzn
and agent wi' firful slbtur. And despur9eUg gti
furrmnes  tu cIbr  harts  and c nj  rt  in t  t
and s6 grd s6 akustmd tu fait aat           ud
from kumbat wih man, goblin      imn self, if hi
hay fot e Red Dragun ov              ktTriz fetoni
had kum in ar pia. And ae rot aer ike    on
3 e Painz and ai Oksandnd swept    zi a i four
wi a aunduri tramp az ov konkururz in l ov
o   lr gdri. But as left bihaind  er m
abr best  and  bravest,  hd  164  aemselz  d   tu.
dai in maim fenz or wer migld w
amU!~cehp     ov seen.
amo.aehips of.si(- -        fromm a(e0swomps
And on ae sevna de    imej            bntiful
an(  forests,  and  bh6ld,  ae  bai k  o a  biinfon
rvur wer bif6r aem. And DhkM i 'n       ie on
horsbak r6d on bif6r ae rest, and r ci
furst, hi found abr a worb6t ov Samankl, n


50

hwic hi enturd and woz sdf. And uaur pips and
b6ts wer prokfnrd, and ae remnant ov ae great 'r-
mil enturd intu aem and riturnd tu ae royal siti.
And Dak Miklmakli prizented aem   bif r ae kin
and tdld him ov ae kurej and galantri as had dis-
pled, and ov ae vikturiz a' had wun.. But hwen
Magnus Mahdrba lukt upon nem and so hou abr
ranks wer aind, hi woz muc displizd, and hi wept
for grif and 94m aat hiz woryurz had bin sakri-
faizd, and yet ai objekt for hwic hi sent Qem
had not bin akompligt.

CAP TUIR VIII.

WIEN   Samo1 herd ov ais free dizastur
and sh e aturd lijunz riturnif from Vur-
S inland, hz indignigtn woz arouzd, an
histnd tu ne pales hail hiz hart woz yet
hot, and hwen hi had f6rst hiz we intu
kinz prezens, hi arrest hun and sed,6
i kiMagnus Mahirba, wer ya not anoint-
ed ~lu an  of 6yr is p-pi for nu"  pzotek9un
ed rd ler and cif dvor aihut.a       p  tkin
and~~ fo2 rgu  ,And lion iz it (Eat yu i rmek
and for der gnd -                    - .  p yr
aiz holokosts tu an infernal Dragon, giviu up teir
uekts t  bi sakrifaizd bai aouzandz and tcnt
Sau                hundred nouzand in a yir,
oaouranalon austo kil ae vail kricur at haz
instigated ail krael wor, an  iz            , tt
i      az wel az ae laivz ov hiz pipI-
Ad hnzn lait at wy  hav sent DAk Milmakl,
And houiz i a ouanz and an 61d and intimet
01~~~ enmiovun9to beri ae soljurlz si
akwdntans ov ne Dragun, n   beut, jand   ain6bl
hav givn yd in swomps and nirgez an fgre
gris z?  And hwai iz not ae trJnpt .blnefo n
nu sumun aem intu oe ratks ov ae    or-
yvrz, tu  faith for  air kim adA h  i ni tr  n
not atroi and kurejus tit

i  i
(li(f

Lakolivs


53

52

ful, and hay ad not meni taimz rilist ae fit ov ao
kinz servants from ae jinz and traps of acr ene-.
miz ?  And hwai gud a    Dragun bi aloud itu
grand ar fdsez and brdk aer b6nz and divour
aem ? Ar ae not fle9 and blud laik oursclvz
Ha   ad not hinan filinz ? DD  e not laf hwen
ad dr mer, and wip hwen Gd rin sad? Du Gd not
sufur hwen a   dr stirvd?  iDd not    er backs
smart hwen ae hwip terz aer skin? Du Ger bod-
iz burn wiaout pan? Hon iz it aat a kin li luv
justis and ekwiti haz n6 piti for ae sordz ov GI'Z
inosents? Had ae kin but prokhkmd ae Dragun a
monster and an, outlb, hven hi furst bigan GO
wor, and kbld out ae Kuganz tu avenj Genselvz
ov aer opresur, our trublz wud hay lon sins end-
ed; a cmonstur wud hay bin sldn, and ae widdz
and orfanz, hdiz huzbandz and fdaurz ai purswdded
ta entur ais konfikt, wud not nou bi filing mai
irz wie aer wdlipz and riprdoez.  lwai gud ae
kin kontinyu tn 96 kaindnes tu ae Blak Dragun?
Dd yd stil purpus tu giv mai dbtur Fridima tu
hz unacural embros ?  Wil yd sik for uaur rek-
ordz ov bitroaal, sins it iz found aat ai dod kuv-
enant givz ae Dragun n6 kidm?
(Ten Magnus Mahdrba, h   sb aat Samunkl woz
gritli eksaited, ansurd him  mikli and sed, Ri-
membur, gud fend, aat yd ydrself hav aknolejd
ydr promis tu giv ydr dbtur in  arij tu ae Blak
Dragun ; yd hay ripitedli averd aat ais woz yiir
undurstandin ov ae kuvenant ; yd hay sent out
yair servants tu hunt up ae fcjitivz and riturn uem

tu bondej; ydi hay erfuli ped taksez anditribnt
for suportin ae Dragun and hav gerd in h  pand
its, and non wil yd disavou yur on wur z
rip ndist  y tr  oblgig *knZo             en
(en Samukl kulurd dip, for hiz
kondemd him, and hi kud not ansur atwurd.
de kin kontinyuld, Yu se it iz rons tu opiesae
Kuganz and tu ekstort from aem -bbur Wjout
wjez. (is iz just hwot ai hay olwez ot ,Dbute
s61doktrz tel mi it iz rait, and iat ae Dragun
woz mid bai 'e Kristur for s veri purpus, and
at ule sskred bucks konfurm it beyond kwescu.
And   hwen ai maislf si aat God haz aloud ie
Dragun tu egzist forsoodine jee and still  is
himin ~ii,  i m. led Pto(lout h weaur hi hits
i    ba,  iuc az  ai   for  if  it had  bin' left
ae kiiur azt aca ad        rutou        d 0
tu mi, a1 wud hay put him    out ov  ne w   an
ag6.  But ai hv n6 pour vur ae Pragun, an
 hwot         wud  it  avl if  ai  9ud  se iz o n    ruanz 
tr nou dilivurd, yur dunjun   'nkt yir Qudnz
.  =tn bnokn.? Wud amal seis ss mekit so .()ud ai
no hbr'laik e fu s Bulfatul' h  atact hiz ani-
not bilak    efmstit                 u stop ae
mal tu a pepur kait and sent it up    to
komet?   Ai kanot ivn send a mesenjur touRio-
mantoun; mai soljurz hay bin traing for a yir
and kanot get abrn; hou am   ai  u  nori  iKur-
anz and tel  em ae ar riist rom
ier opresurz              ifadadbisaa
But Samukl woz not satisfaid, and i'sed G
mait az wel stop faitine if (i a anil ditek  P
rimn  in frend9p wi       Draguna      ijt

tht

,            l  rb .


54

frend9ip ov ae Kuganz. And hi went aws doun.
kast and hevihi'ted, displzd wi f e ki1 for hiz
kongiengusnes, and kursia ae dd fat hi had ever
bin dept bai bad  advaizurz tu entur intu pdrt-
nurgip wia d1d SkdIi.
Hwen Saniunkl woz gon, ife kin bigan tu ri-,
flekt biturli on ae kondigen ov hiz kuntri, and
Qe mizrniz ae Elak Dragun had brut upon it, and
hi inkwaird wicin himself; Iz it rait iat bl mai
subjckts gud perii for ae sik ov wun, and iat
wun ae mdst htfcul ov bl, a tairant and an ene.
mi, hiiz distrukgun wud, beyond dispnt, bi a pub-
ilk benefit? Am ai not ddin ron tu Samunki and
Fridima, and tu fae pip1 ov ae land, bai sakrifaiz-
in aem at ae grain' ov ais bludi M6lok ? Duz not
mai da tu protekt l ai inhabitants rikwair i at ai
gud punig a6z hii injur 'ae rest?  If ae Dragun
iz entaitld tu mai protekgun, iz hi not olsd laiabl
tu penaltiz for hiz roburiz and hiz murdurz and
hiz ribelyunz ?
And ae kin kud not slip ifat nait for ae multi-
tnd ov abts iat priest on hiz memuri, and for piti
ov ae reced Fridinla, huz kraiz for protekgun hi
had sd l6n disrig6rded; and hi nou bigan tu i-
prdc himself for havin koldli turnd hur aws,
hwen hi gud hav cerigt hur az hiz best frond.
Aftur rivolvin ae matur in hiz brdn for a ion
taim, hi fainali konklnded iat hi wud indulj ae
Blak Dragun in hiz wswurdnes n6 longer; fat
hi wud apoint him a dd for ripentans and rekon-
sihegun, and after iat if hi gud persist in hiz

t        ' f
I J,

R"Tupne b*p it.

55
wiked and wontioln wor, hi wnd 19   a    r  o
hiz ekspul91 from ae er n      Sforcelirind,  v
hi had set up hiz ooriti, a me
bi ifO 11 aifat tWgr hiz bo-udmien.!"
b    d ae Kgnf a er iz Onkm ae kin ar6z erl1,
And hen   e mo kioz,        t hiz abts tu
an1 entrd inu rhz klozet,   adon, ofri  a fri
raitin in  e form  ov .a p11iz adhentS, and setin
Lim a taim Pu diziat fr om nin himt and bikumd
rekonsaild tu Sam U:  and worndi   hi  kl  hiz
if hi 9gud stil log: rifCz. Ad hei    blt hi
lordz tagea r for counsel, and ot agensht hif
had ritn. And nnl vof e    sd   fit gens itefor
i s   Io at ie kiz rezolageIn  voat fst. tu mt r
01s6 glad  at ife Dragn    oz rr l r ti mwoIz
diizerts. eon sed Lord Siwoud  tor hi Wz
waiz and fir-sii, and undrs't  trpsz nt  dfk
ii ofrr and wornil hwie i     Pi soSo   taim k
tu ife IBlak IDragn ar gdbe kin s   nor
-0        For ai irmiz ov  -kn   nondiz
bpkronp19     Pags-a   kptinlz and horsmlen ar
bak, an  e Drlin t iOgts ov o capital,
spread don ts O6h 1vn tu  e melted laik waks.
And hn hirtsfi v  Pip1 aretnin iz spred abrbod,
Ana men Ole na it  eiz aelast krai ov disper,
bl m   en lseit iLo'   z   'inz    n  i   i
for hi iz sobad bai ife Drag~anz and help hot
ekstremiti hi inks tu Ie K9aZ dizar tuap prok
ifat hi kerz for ue K~uganz oro diir te won-~
"em, niar haz hi emi rispet  elftignories an-i
d erin  and   reed  F idi a,  wil s k rn s  an d
konst1rn him.  6 ao ngnz        k     u


ae pip! ov Sunland wil traiumf dvur us and mo-k
ohir impotent, and gr6 boldur in fait aan bifdr.
Raaur let a3 kin wdt for a ndr ospiguz sizn; and
let our jenuralz r61 bak ae taid ov wor intu ac
enemiz kuntri, and let our invinsibl hdsts agen
stand bif6r Ricmantoun.  Hwen ais advantej iz
gdnd, let ae kin i911 hiz proklameun aud hz
worni, and orddn liburti tu ae kaptivz, and o1 GO
Kuganz wil rug tu join us and ae Dragun rds
gal kwdk ardout b1 Sunland, and ten az konkr-.
urz wi wil priskraib ae kondigunz ov pis. And
e kiCt sed, (Iis kounsel iz gad; wi vil wet for
ae betur taim.

CAPT1JI-tIgo

B3RINS JEFUR        and ae Dragun wer nou
in kl6s konsultd9un, and hwen c so Ge
diskumficaUr ov ae Normen, and hou    e
 had gaard around aer kapital in terur, ad
14d Gr planz for invidin and konkuri  .
Norland. And (d sent of B61drobin in
ndst, and ordurd him tu 1 wist de tounz
and sitiz, and siz ae silver and g6ld, and ae floks
d herdz, and evuri ain upon hwiobiz woryurz
an    ,     hadz.  And biin eksidin.i puft up
kud leaer hanz. ud
16ri Prins Jefur gdv ordurz aat .e 9ud
tk 1kaptiv liagnus Mahirba himself, and brim him
. c      at i mait 96 him tuaeP GODragun.
inhwail ae kin, pursivini ,e ddnjur ov livi an
'p  6d bai hwie hiz enemiz mait advans tu ata
opnad  al,. tordzRieman-
GO capital, had sent of anuau armi  rd    m
e    bp  GO ,    v B3ulskampur, tu draiv bak ae
t oun bai ae wde          -     e   apdrnpn
hbti h6sts  at wer   i    ver      apidrunand
Rapidnokmi rnyurz, and araeGOa    ov GO 9aini-
d6r. And hi divaided d Airmi intu band and
-.o ,vur Gem  Daks Pontif and    Dditwel and
Stronbr and    aur brev jenuralz. -An-d
sed it woz bail ninz fitin Gat aO Pontif gud bi

'1

t , }
t-
f'
«,
°:
,.,
(
l
-,

1
a                           '
!.
,ti
,
,


abuv ae rest, s6 hi gdv him ae cif komand. But
Dik Pontif woz a yun woryur, and ae dldur cIfs
wer jelus, and displizd Gat a stripling gud bi phdst
6ver aem.
Andehwen hi riot ae Rapidnokin rivur hi as-
embld. hiz woryurz and harand aem, and tdld aem
aer wud bi no mor dizasturz, for as had met abr
last difit and med abr last ritrit, and nou aer'
brouz wer tu bi kround wig ae caplets ov vikturi.
So hi spred out hiz dirmi aloe ae river bank tu
prevent ae Drag6nianz from krosini, but ae kdm
on in swormz laik.l6kusts, and hwail hi woz gdr-
din wun spot ae dagt dvur in anuaur. And hwen
hi so hou grdtli aer numburz eksided hiz 6n, hi
bikem alsrmd, and sent and bisbt ,Duk Miklnakl
tu giv him m6r woryurz, and fid for hiz men
and horsez. But Dnrk Miklmaki sed hi gud hay
n6n betur aan tu g6 aat wd, and nou hi mait get
himself bak az hi kud.
Cen Dk Pontif so Gat hi woz in an ivl kis,
and hi gaaurd hiz woryurz around hini, t     " skdr
and ten lijunz, and fot ae sekund grdt batl ov
Buiskampur agenst an ovurhwelmin multitud ov
Drag6nianz.  And ,Duk Stroubir stud aluf and
wud not help him in hiz ekstremiti; but Dntk
Dditwel, and Dnck Heneman, and Horntosur, and
Qarpsikl, and aeu aur daks and kaptinz fot val-
yantli, and kept up ae fait seven dsz.  For do
sed, WI .must non ritriv ae dizasturz aat bifel us
last yir bai .rizn ov ae spektur. -But hwen ad bi-
held .Ge k6horts ov ae'Drag6nianz multiplaiin, and

o     bai tenz and hundredz ov aouzandz,
and s ae touring pmz ov B6ldrobin, and ae
majestik straidz ov Lon step, and herd GOundur-
majeo  St6ni-aks kavalri, ad persivd abr kds woz
h e And gaauri up ae remnants ov ae bro-
ke  biiz, (YO m~d a~r we' bak, az best 6 u,
and bituk aemselvz for eltur tu  e stronh61dz on
ae ks ov Ge Boundarimirk.
e oaik   ar  aftur  ae  kinz  armi ru t e   lijnz  ov
't"njk and Lonstep, wirl3B6ldrobin bihaind aem.
Stimjae Qaini dir vali and 6vur ae Boundariirk
rivur ae swept laik a hwurlwind. And ten aouz-
ndov aeO  orland woryurz wer kipi gird in ae
ov ae Hdrpurz, and a wer harpin and siniii
a    in      ov Samunk1 and Fridima, and ov
Osapi AOmairtur, for (at woz ae spot hwer hi
fcl. And ae Drag6nianz surounded aem, and tuk
t'v and had aem hal abr hirps on Ge
aem kpi,-      '  d
wi16z and sin no mor.
And6zeand s woz s6rli purpiekst and sik at bhirt,
a  hi went intu hiz klozet and gut ae d6r, and
'd t  ae God ov hevn, and voud a vou, sein,
If God wil but giv mi rilif ais w ns, aen wil ai
no1gur dile' but wil apoint ae Dragun hiz de ,
and aftur al iu him spe's for ripentans, ai wil
pdokfem  ad iri ov outlri agenst him, and i gal
bi ekstermindted and distroid, and hun up az a
spektakl in ae sait ovf bl ndunz.
And ae kin woz in a grie't strd't, for hi had n6
-    l    n mhi kud rilai tu lid hiz woryurz at
sue a kitikal tain. For Dk Mikimaklhad ri-

C S
,''    #
t  jr
I 1     '
1C    'r
,  -  c?
1_ a
fjy}1
£      ' {;'
;    s" ,
,
,  -.".
,'-
.
,f
T  :sr
.fi'
}      w" .
f-=   \ y;"=
,rtL
Y,'r  '  - Y a


60

jTacrn  t jd~

turud in dizonur from Riemantoun, and bisaidz
aat, hi woz vei tender ov ae Drag6nianz, and
had wornd are kin not tu me'k wor upon   0
Dragunz n royal person, but 6nli tu terifai him
sumhwot bai draivin bak hiz drmiz. Nor woz ae
kin wilin tu entrust ae komand -tu Dks Pontif
and Dditwel, hd had olredi bin traid and found
une'bl tu kop wia ae derin proves ov B6Idrobin.
So hi kBld hiz kounselrz, Lord Siwordr, and
Lord Blerintrump, and Lord Stampon at woz (e0
kinz armi-skraib. Glen sed Lord Stampon, WI
must hav a ncioff; but ai uaurz priferd Dulyk
Miklnakl, for as sed, Hi iz a Dim6krian, and if
W dismis him b oae Demdkrianz wil dizert 
kin, and aen wil it bi wurs wi    us aan it iz
nou. And ae kin sed, Rait; it iz not waiz tu
swop horsez in ae - midi ov a strim. S6 DnkA
Mikimakl woz sent forward wic a gret drni, and
hi enkounturd ae Dragdnianz in (e susurn mount-
inz ov Midlland, and set in ard agenst [em
Horntosur wic hz lijunz, and Frankman and Bur-
ninbrand, and as me'd a gre't slbtur ov i inv dd
urz, and cist aem up ae saidz ov ae mountinz,
and dvur ae roki krests, and doun intu ae vali
bihaind uem, hwer woz a smrbl rivur kold Antit-.
urz krik. Gen Bdldrobin krost e strim, and tuk
pozegun o vae hilz. (at 14 in ae form ov a kres-
ent on ae western bank, and priperd for a grat
bati.  And ae kinz drmi enkampt on ai isturn
said, and ldd aemselvz doun tu rest for .ae fnail,
sein, Tumoro is ae d ov wor, hwic iz Wddenz.

4

61
And hiwen e ai-dpnur bigan tu klaim dvur il
srhilz      e woryurz rouzd from  abr slurmburz
andrkomenst e fait. And ae batl wakst firfuli
bludi and kontinud b de.  On ae nora Horn-
tosur rddJ laik a madnd bul, and swept doun ne
 wi hiz artileri; but hi woz at lena
wrgnidand meni ov hiz kaptinz kild. And
wen Dk Sumunur sb it hi sumund hiz band ov
veturanz and rest forward t fll up ae vikant
ranks and h61d. fast ae ground (at had bin wan.
.No. hwen ae nnntaid woz past, ae Drag6nian kol
u r"'d t6rd ae sona, and Qer ad fel upon Burn-
ilbrandp hd woz krosin ie rivur on a stdn brij
in ordur tu kut of abr ritrit. Hir id fht til ae
sun went doun and ae kinz traps rested on aer
sekti tu rinn ae bati on e moro. But
oame mo6 . bat1 kdm, for B6ldrobin had dis-
n ard    o Glen  sed Burninbrand  and  lorntosur,
Nou iz our taim tu bi up and after em; but
Dctk Mikimaki sed, N6, wi dr not dbl; for ie
sn stron and ad wil lid us intu an
Dagonias6 hi let aem dipirt in kwaiet. And
a ru and went tu br 6n kuntri, and ip6rt-
d u  rains Jefr and ae Dragon ae misforcunz
bifbin aem
Hathbwn Magnus Maharba sb at hiz prr woz
ansurd and eat God had giv him ae viktun
ansr hiz enemiz, hi rimembbrd hiz vou iat hi
had luz    ad hi sent for hiz skraibz and kozd
em u kopi ae raitin hi had ritn, eat it mait
bi skaturd amen (e pipl.    And hi sed wifi

r
I
f      f  f'
E


62

o,

CAPTUR X.

himself, Non wil ai _divaid mai enemiz, ad ai wil
ofur a riword tu adz aat gal forsik ae Blak Dragun
and riturn untu mi, and. hwen ai hay bai ais minz
rfkuvurd a pdrgun ov acm, ai kan izili suban ae
rimendur. S6S hi kbzd ae raitin tu bi waizli and
kerfuli wurded, promisin tu ae pipl ov a le pro-
vinsez aat gud rinouns and abjdr ae stpremasi
ov ae Dragun, and in t6kn ov abr obidiens send
up aer mesenjurz tu ae grdt kounsil, aat ao past
9ud bi forgivn, and ad gud bi aloud tu mdk aer
on guvurnment, and tu manej aer 6n afers az
afdrtaim. And if ad non submited ad gTd bi pur-
mited tu ritin aer helots in scrvis ; or if as wid
konsent tu rilis aem for a ransum, aen h   wud
prokur from ae grdt kouinsil ae prais at hwic ad
gud bi valynd, and after aat ae kaptivz gd g6 fri,
and hi wud transport acm tu-abr dngent kntri or tu
sum uaur hapi kMaim. But for ae Dragun and adz
hu kontinyzid tu fait hiz batiz, and tu kil ae s6-l
jurz ov Samunkl, aftur ae pirid ov wen hundred
dez, hwio wud termindt on ai first d .ov ae Gdt-
muna ov ae nekst nl yir, aar gud bi nd pdrdn, and
lae helots aat servd aem gud bi set fri wIaout a
ransom, and gud bi at liburti tu g6 hwer ad pzd,
and ae kmz armiz gud not ristdr aem tu aer opres-
urz, but gud protekt and difend aem  in abr fri-
dum; and aus ae pour and gri ov ae Dragun
wud bi brat tu an end, and hi wud pei and bi-
kum ekstirkt, for hiz praid and for hiz trzn, and
for hiz kaim hwic hi had kornited in ribelin agent
ai oaoriti and gvurnment ov ae kin.

AMUNKL and hiz dbtr wer non sumund
_t aepales. And ae kin 96d aem ae rait-
had ritn; and hi sed tu Samunk1,
ricdima cal n6 longur bi a fajitiv and a
vagabond ; hensfdra ci gal abaid in may
pales az a dotr.  For ae Blak Dragun
haz kild and distroid our pipl, and haz
edur  himself uriwurai ov protekgn; nevur-
aeles, it wud not hi rait to dip6z and bani9 him
waeoLt givin him  a ffr oporthuniti for ripentans
a uekonsili9Un. Ai hav aerf6r given him a hun-
ed dz ov griS; let bl uinz rimin az ad wer til ae
taim  i  ast, and  aen  ai wil igu  mai dikri and  di-
tai him from   hiz prinsli stt.  And for Fridi-
az sdk ai wil ransom ae Kuganz from aer bon-
e'p and ai wit purees for aem  sum hapi a11and
hwiaur as m6 bitdk aemselvz and bi no mor op-
r   nd ae tendr hdrt ov ydr jentl dbtur gal
hi '6 lo gr esft and t6rn wia ae kraiz and ae
sufurinz ov ai linosent.
Glen sed Samunld, Ie wurd ov -ae kin iz
ud; but sup6z ae Dragun gud aksept .yur ofur,
e nd ae provinsez and pip1 send up ger mesenjurz
.fdr ai 6pniii ov ae Gstmuna, gal aen b       bi

,   !
, ; .
,  ,
 ,-  Ei
s ij1  ''
!f  = G
,Ij  ,
;' '!
i   ; f jy
t     i
',',;(
i     '
'f ,i
, 'i i1
1    jt
I}li
1   '  I'
1   ''  f

rrr Yi


*

64

ristdra az bifdr 2cl?  1
binskriazd fr Qal ae laivz ov mai sdijurz hav
bifrended     for nt? .? al ae Kuganz hd har'
bifrended Gem  and Ist aer fit from ae snerz, hi
agei riturdnd  Fod? -a1 ai engent kuvenant
hidiivadd, anFimn b yunaited for laif tu aat
Daun a1dnistur ? For nd, 6 kip1, aat ae Blak
Dragun a anevuri risiv ae hand ov mai dbtur
in marj; and moi pan aat, aftur hwot haz hap-
nd si and 91 kanot liv upon ae sim continent;
and stil furaur, az mai nim iz Samunkl, and. az
Ge ilud ov a jaiant res fidz are mai vanz, ais
karm iaz hunt him from  96r tu 961, til hiz kir-
ksi bnwd faiv uouzand facumz dip in ae solt
ei, alon h'G ac hundred aouzand hiwaitnin skel-
etuns ov hizrnizurabl viktimz not yet kuvurd hal
Gi ensepulkur~in iz!r
Stop, stop, sed Magnus M   -ahirba, yd  r td muc
e e  u      a n at wi must dd justli, and ob-
zerv ae kuvenant ov Ge fdaurz. Ai hav hut vei
iti hop Gat G ndblz and prinsez ov Ge Dragun
wii aksept mai ofur. Purhaps ai gal not suksfd
i       pip  O  a simgl provins.  But if ad dud
.n at mai invite9un, aer rats must bi rispekt-
ed. Anud aftr ad hav submited tu mai oaoriti,
iDragU stbjl vig tu onur and supdrt ae Blak
Drgu, suekt uGO ae lz ov ae kuntri, wi kan..
ai ga   Ge m tobanig him from  aer midst.  But
gi 9aemdu lma    os' tu purswed Gem, and wil
giv aem Aolmst eni fevur Ge ask if ac wil aban-
dun him.   Az tu givn up Fridima tu a     Drag-
un,    hi gnd insist upon liz klim, liv Gat tu mi-

65

-
Ai wil endevur tu pasifai him wia a ransm.
Trubl not ydrself and Fridima vii yusles firz ov
hwot wil probabli nevur hapn. If it gud unfor-
cunetli bikum nesesari tu yunait Fridima, in ak-
ordans wia ai original bond, tu wn for h    m 91
haz n6 afekun, ai vil tdk kar aat 9i iz trited
wia evuri rispekt. Qi gal never, hwail 4i liv, bi
f6rst tu okpai ae pozieun ov a animal.   And
Si cal bi aloud tu spend ae grdtur porgun ov
evuri yin on hur fsvurit noraurn hilz. Yir do-
tr, ai am   9   ir, wil olwez bi redi, az ai am,
tu mndk a sakrifaiz ov hur 6n praivet filnz hwen
nesesari for ae salvseun ov hur kuntri.
(Ien Fridima kud n6 longer kontin herself, and
gi bigan tu krai and sob biturli. Klinin kl6sli
tu hur fdaur and 1ini hurzhed upon hiz 96ldur,
9i trembid in evuri lin, az an aspen 1ff tremnblz,
in ae id.   And hwen oi had prtli rikuvurd
mue wi sod,    Hiwot iz ais cat ae kin haz dun?
orsa  kin haz put mai laif in jepurdi, and
mai enemiz wil nou araiz and kombain for mai
distruken, and wi aat r flaturin wurdz ae wl
disiv ae kin, .and az sun az as hav med aer pis
wia him  a  wil persikut mi m6r aan evr, and
aC pir inosent Kuganz wil bi trodn tu ae dust,
and hunted and kild upon ae mountinz and in ac
valiz, and in ae kdvz hwer as hav hid aemselvz.
6 hou kan ai endur tu witnes ae sufurinz ov is
kaind afek9unet pipi 3 For as ar tu mi az dn
bruaurz and sisturz, and eksept dilivurans bi grant-
Sed aem, let ae kin no agfiredli aat ai gal dal
E

i
,+
il ¢'

Pl 1
.a
.

M: ariz Abliii,

Tu nir            rb i.


66         3, snAlbigrbr                                                                       6

wia aem, and mai prezens gal nevur mdr bi a
trubl t Oae kin or tu hiz pipl, and mai ndm
gal peri and bi forgotn from   amun ai inhabit-
ants ov acis land. And gi run hur handz for ae
bitur grif and augwig ov hur sol.,
([en Ge kin woz trubld, and hi wept, and sod
tu hur faur, Kumfurt ae mddn, and pasifai hur,
and dout not aat bl wil yet bi wel. 86 ad bid
hur drain hur tirz, and hur fdar tdld hur hi woz
preti cur ae Drag6nianz wud rijekt ae kinz pro-
pozal. Hur taint ov trail wud bi but for a fib
wiks, and aen hur sordz wud, l bi dvur, ae
Blak Dragun wud perig. and sink tu oblivion, e
kaptivz bi dilivurd from  abr bondz, and  b1 (re
pip! wud hdl hur az ac hapi kwin ov a nn and
betur dj. But Fridima kud not hug up hun krai-
in, and gi bis&amp;t ce kin at hi wud let hur ritair
tu ae forests and komp6z herself, and rim'n abr
til ae hundred dsz wer past. Ta ais ae kin wuid
not konsent, for hi sed, Qi wil ldz hur rizn if left
aldn wia cis anzaieti prdin upon hur. Hi fird os6
at 91 mait in a rag mdment .esksp from ae kuntri
and flai tu sum uvor land, and s6 fulfil ae wurd gi1
had sp6kn, at hi and hiz pip1 ud si hur n6
m6r. Hi kept hur aerfdr in ae pales, kerfuli woct
and gdrded, and hi gdv hur ae best rdm, and
invaited hur faur and frendz tu vizit bur evuri
dd, aat ad mait sua and .enkurej hr. Notwia-
standin 61 aer efortz tu mdk hur hapi, as kud not
rist6r hur tu hur nacural bwoiansi. For Fridima
felt aat 9i woz a priznur, and ait gi woz atil in

ddn'ur ov a fit wors aan dee, and Gat abr woz n.
sevtinti ov rilif for ae kaptivz 6vur hnz bondej 91
n6rnd. Ofn in ce nait gi wud wik from stArtii
drimz h      r hirt arobin konvulsivli. And evuri de
9 lisnd wia intens interest tu Ge rdnorz, hweaur
ov ps or wor, Gat ksm from Sunland, hopim,
yet skersli deri tu biliv, aat e iDragun wud pur-
ist in hiz foli til hiz dd ov grds woz past. Sum-
taimz, hwen wbk   in ci e pales groundz, 91 wud
rifiekt biturli on Ge kondukt ov ae kin, sem wat
hi woz unjust, and Gat hi had n6 rait tu ofur ae
Kuranz az a braib ta win bak ae Drag6nianz.
i ud not understand ai old kuvenantz, nor ae
kinz ekspaldel ov cen; for ei sed if ae kuve-
nants wer for uph6ldiU inj ustis ad wer an abhor
ens tu ae God ov hevn, az muc az ad wer tu hur.
Anld furar, 1 did not biliv a robur kud akwair
Ge rait to rob bai mekim a kuvenant wia eni bodi
eksept  ae P  .ati tu bi robd; and it woz not pr-
tended Gat GO Kuganz had enturd intu eni ov e
kuvenants kw6l      Oted1ai ae kinin justifike'n ov ae
Dragunz onoriti tu opres. Az for herself, 91 dimd
it a gr6s outrj for her fdair or .eni wun els tu
mik kuvenants and alaiansez for her agenst hur
wil, and e kbld upon  1 Oae wined dnjelz tn 1lnd
Gr pinyunz and her hur tu sum uaur sfir, if ger
g;d evur bi an atemt tu f6rs hur intu ae DragUz
iz.-
hwen Ge Dragonianz herd ov xe kinz ofr
=    and aretnin ad diraided aem and sed, Wi hay but
Sh6d on and bi furm a lid lopgur:, and ±e v1k-

4'

66V

67

r
, v,, 0  W  R, a " axb-.,Yo
, Pt"  It    Q


68

Bluguinvz   2   jidrn.                                                                                                6

turi iz ourz. And ae kin agen sent for hiz ofisurz
and bad aem put aer drmiz in md9un, and m'rc
direktli agenst ae kapital and pales ov ae Dragun.
And Dak Burninbrand woz komigund tau lid ae
wd. And hven hi had rict e --idnokin rivur
and krost ovur tu i uaur said, hi so bif6r him
a hai hil and around it a grit and strop wol.
And hwen hi drdi nfr, it bikim a wbl ov fair,
and belct fdra gourz ov dea-dflin inisilz amun hi
woryurz.  And meni ov uem     fel ded upon ao
plin, and as ritrited wens and agen bif6r ."e fair
run.   And Horntosur begd ov Burninbrand aat
hi wud kip awe' from ae wb1, for hi woz fraitnd
at ae numburz ov ae sldn. But Burninbrand wud
not lisn, for hi sed ae must gin pozegun or ae
hil, kost hwot it mait.  S6 hi we'vd aloft hiz f-
mig brand in aie presens of hiz h61 Lrmi for ae
surd taim, and ad rugt forward, and ae Drag6.
nianz mdd aem doun az bifdr, and paild ae phdn
wia ae ded and daiin, ivn ten nouzand men. And
Burninbrand had yet f6r skdr and ten aouzand
woryurz left ; and after ae sun went doun hi
gaaurd hiz diks and cifs in kounsil, and tdld,
aem aat hwen ae mornin br6k ae must dag ae
remnant ov ver 'rmi wuns m6r upon ae wbl, if
peradvencur ae' mait te'k it. And bl ae cifs bigan
tu murmur, for ad' sed, Hwai gud wi ipit Gis
foli, and bit out ae brenz ov ae kiiz s6ljurz.
bai aroir  aem  agenst ae wol, hwen wi kanot
ric ae Dragonianz aat dr bihaind it? CGen Dak
Burninbrand s6 aat hiz sup6rturz had bl fdld him,

.  -- id  adorderd ai Armi
and hi woz haili displizd, and  o      e ri
tu bi awidrbn tu te noraurn bank ov nae ivur,
And abr woz grdt we'lig and lamenteUl hadfout
Norland for ae ten aouzand woryurz iat had foin
.r  . '  And hwen    e IDragun sb it
-bifor ae fairs wo -'    dbkmm.         iemn
higind from i tu. Iin', and bike'm mor ditei'mind
hi ridafom1rta      kin or risiv hiz of-
aan evur not tu submit tu oe
urd pcrdn.'rodn aat had bin
PDjrin ace h61 tarnt ov prob6e.f  athd    i
Daria  e h61  a, of P  (,)miz of ae kin
givn to Ge Bflak Prgun    G0~m vG
giv    t tu     wu s bif r abr enemiz.  For a
E    er put.u geivoae vois or risiv ae mesejez by
kud no lot gui' hirG  ~So   il    Omsjzo
Fkidilna, and ge  pour ov hur nem az a wocwurd
Fridiost.  And sum ov ae profets aat wer ov ai
woz lost.  Adsmo         epa         i aem for
Iradikiturz sed Gat God w z    .grui wil ov ae
ofurin tu pCSres ai alaianz and glail   ov GO
Dragun wiG Ge toil and tziz and arsez oe tig
Kuganz, and Gat Gas' in neer be b1 tukon-
agenst aen, and Gat ae wud wnevuro  al  tu  rdz
kun Gai. enemy nlz until Fnidima woz aloude   i'
h  r  banr  en i  ie nd  for  ae  protek9un  ov  bl
her  ban uf  6v uAor  b e 4  l  ba it n   ae   an
A nd in bt an  R zikrov.  h ' had  bin  sent  t  w oo
And Dm      o    rekRzk tbrao- beyond ae Ajur khfs
}:1 ae muvments tov           lavat+e yrud
and Aligdtur mounte1lz, rizolvd vitria Go yin s
not pas wiaout e gliriov sum vikterfor Hais-
tdria  tn  rikond  in  hun  daia  a r  abrrf ,rtga sku r
tuger hz andz a w      skaturd ab'od,  wskr
and  ten  ijunz,  and  m crt tn fiIuiunzburo,  hw r
Gr.tbag  and  B a 6k  'b n a  fiftijnz  ov iD ag-
nian woryurz had Piet aver tents and but &amp;'k.

4   r,
e
i      i
1    ; , ;
s    l     I
'   999   t
;    ,
'  j
f   i
, a  f
f
s, ,
. .
I
'
_  ;
'
Vii',, ,
7±
s..t

69

'  g
t   3 ,!
1'i
iii i+ '
.  i;
{
;,
'     t,

' ql


70

cenz, and had sat doun tu it and drink, and tu
rdk aemselvz kumfurtabl for ace winter. And
hwen ad herd aat Rdzikroun woz advansin ad rdz
up in hest, and kdm out tu giv him bati on ae
banks ov ae St6nifork rivur. And hwen aurti diz
ov ae Ddziembur muna had past, and ai djed yir,
sik and sad-hirted, having ldd himself doun tu dai,
uif6lded hiz mantle tu tik wun mdr sordful Ink at
ae morning sun, aen ae ti Armiz bigan abr dedli
fre. And ae Drag6nianz rust upon Rdzikroun in
aer fari, and hi kud not stand bif6r aem, and as6
swept doun hiz hjunz bai hundredz and uouzandz,
lvn fair aouzand men ; and ad tuk td uouzand
kaptivz and twenti gret gunz. ([en Rdzikroun fel
bak tu ae plis hi okcapaid at ai 6pnin ov ae fait,
and aer hi held fast .hiz ground, and gaaurd hiz
woryurz around him, and bad aem tik hirt wuns
mor, and rimembur .aat ae darkest our woz just
bifdr ae brdkin don.
And s6 it prvd; for ae veri nekst ds ae skiJ
ov batl turnd, and ae garlandz ov vikturi blos-
and on ae brou ov Rdzikroun.     And hi turnd
upon 'hiz enemiz, and ad fled bif6r him, and hi
cest aem tu. ar kamps, and drdv aem souawurd
wia a gr Wt -sibtur.

it'

CAPTrU]RXL

ORDZ ai end ov ae hundred dez Fridi-
ma gru m6r and mdr eksaitabl, and hur
mecual wocigr    for ac slaitest hwispur
prpeuawbr ov h6p had givn hur a won
cik and a fivurd puls.  Ge ddz wer ker-
fuli kounted, and at leia 9f bigan tu
kount ae ourz, On ne last d6 hur a-
.eti wozs6intens aat 91wud stlt at ae ruslin
wo fansii aat mesenjurz had kum from ae
Ilak Dragun.   Fainali, hwe'n gi s  e sun g6
Ba       klz its lrinand bludgot ai binia ac
down  and  kl z is, i
silkn f-ie -    e twailait, and hwen ae not rugt
upon hr brn aat ne lo  aguni woz vur, and aat
hur destiny woz sf, e91 braik f6ra into a konvul-
iv  detm and swnd aw. lwen    91 had rikuvurd
iv grknd hrseif surrounded bai hur faaur and
rend, hf had kum tu kongraculet hur upon hur
gud forcun, and ae dilivurans ov ae kaptivz from
aer prizn-hous. And bl aat simpaaaizd wia hur,
in tounz and sitiz, gaaurd tugeaur tu woo ai out-
g6in ov ae melankoli yfr, and tu prd for ae hapi
entrans ov a betur dj.
But ae nait woz drk and ghimi, and strenj
noizes wer herd, and hwisliiz in ae er, and a

Thiw5 Utlatfirba.


72                   I3Th nv 0    l liirn.                                                                                                        7

flapin ov winz, az ov dimonz enrijd bikoz er
taim woz gort. And ae gldm rested upon ae land
til midnait. And hwen ae Gstmuna hwic 6pnd
intu ae n . fra bigan tu turn upon its hinjez, and
ae grdt belz in ae tourz komenst aer ri-in, aer
kem a soft hwait lait aat spred its rddians dv'r
ae skai, and'9dn in at ae winddz, and wia it a
swit meludi az ov distant worblinz, and bl gat
herd it sed, It iz ae sound ov ae kumin Ira! CIS
dnjelz dr sinin aer dld son ov Pis on era and
gud wil tu men ! And ae burdz in abr boui-z
nbt ae mornin had kum; and ae ti bigan tu
worbl melddiusli; and soft gdlz kdm   up from
Sunland, laik ae ge'lz ov Arabi, Idn wig diligus
perfnmz. And bl ae pipl bigan tu sin, and Fridi-
ma san, and ae ourz glaided bai bifdr as wer
awer, and ae nornin brdk.
And az ae de advanst ae pi'pl weted in ankgus
ekspektdgun for ae kinz dikri hwic hi had prom-
ist, and ad sed, Iz not ais (e de for Iiburitin ae
kaptivz? And iz not ae dd ov grds for ae Drag-
un past ?  Iz not hiz duim tu bi pronounst cis
ds? And sum sed, Magnus Mahairba never yet
brdk hiz word; uaurz sed, Hi der not banig ae
Dragun or dipraiv him ov hiz servants ; uaurz, aat
it wud not bi just; uaurz stil, aat- it wud bi bi-
yond ae kinz pour tu kari sue a dikri intu eks-
ikigcun.
Glen ae kin gaaurd hiz ministurz and skraibz,
and sed, Yi nd (re wornia aat haz bin givn; and
nou ae wurd gat haz bin sp6kn must bi akom-

S
i
y

pligt.  S6 hi inkwaird hon meni provinsez~ Qer
wer cat had sent nd mesenjurz tu 0ae grdt koun-
sil. And a ansurd him, Ten. And hi kbzd a er
nmz tu bi inserted in de .dikri hwic hi had pri-
prd. And ae form ov a0 raitin woz als :
Hweraz ae Blak Dragun, added bai triznabl and
wiked kounselirz, haz mdd wor agenst hiz kin
and kuntri, and aerbai forfeited bl rait tu protek-
gun ;
And hweraz a pokl149eun haz bin mdd giving
wornin and taim for ripentans, and ofurin pardn
tu bi pipl and provinsez in iirmz, on kondigun ov
acir submigun wiain (ae pfried ov wun hundred
dde, hwic hundred dsz hav ekspaird ;
Nou, oerfdr, ai, Magnus Mahairba, kin ov ae
Yunaited Oksident, di public and dikler  at bl
persunz held kapti  wihin ae foldin provinsez,
tu wit: Vrjinland, Tora and Soua Karulurz, Gor-
jusand, Flouriglddz, Ailandbimi, Fiaurwotur, Ark-
njel, Lnisland, and Tdkusin, dr hensfdra and gal
forever bi Fri; and aer fridum  gal bi mentdnd
bai ae nagunal dirmi and nevi; and ad gal bi em-
ploid tu garisun f6rts and tu serve a.r kuntri, and
i tu 16bur for wjez hwerevur a enz; and (d gal
hay (e rait ov self difens if assld bai aer enemiz.
And ae lordz and kounselurs ov ae kin aprtvd
ce dikri.  And ae mimstor aat woz 6vur iae
 kinz trejuri sod, Let it bi aded aat uis akt iz
=    pe1rformd in ce nem  ov justis, and dedikdted tu
Olmaiti God.   And ae kin konsented. And hi
saind (1e dikri, hi and Lord  Siwordur, and ad

72

73

rn


74            (a~iuvs   JJritr.                                                                                      7

slid it wia ae grdt sIl and sent it fora tu bi
publigt arnout 61 ae land.
Glen ae kin kbld Fridima and tdld hur aat hi
had fulfild his pronis, and aat gi gud nevur m6r
bi trubld or persiknted bai ae Blak Dragrn, but
gud bi at liburti tu rdm at hur plejur ard ae hdl
kuntri, Sunland. az wel az Norland, and tu risiv
ae luv and homej ov ai inhabitants and ae grdt-
ful wanks ov ae liburdted Kuganz, and cat hur
ndm gud bi linskraibd on b1 ae ki1z banurz. il
aded ols6 ae h6p aat gi mait wun do bikum kwin
ov 61 ne'unz.   Glen Magnus Mahirba tuk hur
hand and kist it, and begd hur forgivnes for
hwotevur ron hi mait hav dun hur. And gi kist
ae kin on b6a elks, and ae kin wept.  For Fri-
dlma biin ov hevnli orijin aer woz a kurent ov
silescal ilektrisiti aat fidd from hur lips az "ad tuet
ae kinz elk, penetrdtin hiz h61 frdm  and kindlit
in hiz brest ae sm  fldm ov impirgal benevolens
tu 61 ppl1 wia hwic 91 herself woz inspaird. And
ae kin bikdm  az a nu man, and hi felt winin
himself aat hi had nou risivd ae tre royal anoint-
in, and from aat our hi woz evur redi and wilii
tu 16 doun hiz laif for ai objekt ov hiz div6gun.
And hiz lordz, wun after anuaur, tuk ae hand
ov Fridima and kist it. And as akumpanid hur
out intu ae strits ov ae siti, and a gout laik ae
sound ovmaiti aundurinz grited hur az 91 mdvd
aloe. And ae pipl strdd rdzez in hur paa, and
ae Kuganz gaaurd around hur, and arei aemselvz
at hur fit, and wept for ekses ov joi.

And mdst warbtful it woz tu si hou ae h61
Oksid1.t braitud wi dilait az ai ekdz ov ae sl es-
cl  ^zik l6ted awd on Qe winz ov ae wind tu
cie distant mountenz, and ard ae valiz and for-
ests, and hwer (e rijoisin rivurz went por  ctr
kristal fiudz intu ce si. And i evurgrinz 6pnd
abr brancez lIny.li tu ae glz aat kist (rem az as
went past; and    ai aisiklz aat hun  around ce
waitnd top ov Meunt  geik sofnd intu tirz ov
tendurnes; and b1 alone ae Roki krest cat ovr-.
luks ce Pisful Si, ii iglz wer out on poized wi-n,
survsin ae nnu batiz ov ae wurld biniac aem; and
ae kloudz hun out abr luvliest banurz ov red,
hwait and bla l 6vur rae skai; and of 69unz sent
of aer worm  kurents tu melt ae aisborgz, and tu
swip around ci ailandz and aeC Grdt Orient, and
tu r61 up ar wdvz dvur ae B6Arbarus gorz ov Ku-
oa, and ac burning sand o Ofur,- and Ler grin, del-
taz ov ace Flouri Land, and tu wog out e fut-
prints and ae blodstdnz hwic (. Blak Dragun and
Liz fiaur had left bihaind em  in evuri kntni
hwhr ad had had car habiti9u.

75

74

3rurnv 5  ,'TIallftbae

I{Ii;  ttxy JJ e;
I j  { !  1   I
i  I'1 1
((  ( t
C.i tjl
t fi
:it
r;j "'
R  r'   't
r  ii,
r
F   li
r
t    i.
its
1
E
(C     t
a t
, ;   1
R
,y  +
4',   s
s    ,
,F
r    I,


77

CAPTUR XII.

AGUR aan brdk de ared ov mai narativ
in ai 1st, ni abt it betur tu bi sumhwot
tdrdi in sizin de strin ov okurensez dat
hapnd in ae west. Gat lain ai non tdk
up.   Sun aftFr ae Dragoun komenst hiz
wor, aer woz a maiti komdoun in ae
granit hilz hwer ae Fiaurwotur haz hiz
s6rsez, and in ae waid and fertil pldnz urd hvie
ad fl6.  For ae Dragun had ur6n an aiurn cen
akros ae canel ov komajnikden, and wud n6 lort-
gur alou ae noraurn kandz and trddinbdts tu g6
up and doun az afdrtairn. For ae brancez 6v ae
Faaurwotur dr spred dvur ae sentral rIjun ov ii
Oksident az ae brancez ov a tri spred ard al er ;
and az ac bLurdz and skwurelz i aldrmd hwen ad
si a serpent twainin around ae trunk bild aem,
s6 wer ae dwelurz upon ae western woturz fild
wia konsturneun hwen ad found ae Dragun woz
arin hiz koilz akros aie grt rivur and baindi
it wicu cdnz ov aiurn, aat hi mait mdk it a sliv
and a bondman, fvn az hi had dun tu ae Kuganz.
And ae pipi wer rouzd, and p6rd doun from abr
hilz laik torents in de sprintaim, and adO sed
HIwerevur our strimlets gd, aer wil wi g6, and

1r al hi n6 enz Upon our woturz, from    ae
douzand ldks, hwer our Minigiiturz hunt e waied-
foul, tu ae G rdt Bdsn ov ae Miksinkan, hwer ac
woturz mit and mingl wia as si.
And aer dwelt anon ae hunturz a tuf and stub-
urn woryur hnm ad klkd Granit, and hi woz
Se            vaild b sts aat had bin kild in
des moute   hwen hi herd ae tminult and mur-
rin ov de pi,1. Az sun az ade t6ld him ov di
insult tu oae F rwotor, hi sent and ofrd luiz
servisez t Samunkl. And Samuenkl sp6k for him
tu (e kin, and ae kii sent him a komigun tu
kut a par doun ue Faourwotur and 6pn ae canel
s6 dat dO gips ov ai Admirabl Ferigift, hwi  le
in de Grdt B sn, mait hay a fri pasej up and
doun de strinm.
Gen Dfk Granit gaacrd a gr t h6st ov de il-
anoirz, nd de Iaiav6z, and ae Waizkounselurz,
and dO Miligagunorz, and ae Migniturz, and hi
miret aem doun tu ae border ov Sunland, and
da -prepardgu~nz tu advans upon Mumif6s and
Wikedburg, ti gret sitis aat 1 l6eur doun on dO
banks ov de FiaurwotUr. And aer kdm up from
de sou a woryur aat wud not entur intu dO
n kounselz ov de Drag6nianz, h"z ndm woz Qdr-
man, and hi joind himself to de kiz armiz, and
-      woz sent out tu faith bai ae said ov        ntk Gramt.
And bikbz ov ae grdtnes ovae Ourdn aat rested
tpon do gCldurz of diZ td cfftenz, ae spirits ov tu
dld woryurz dat had left ae planet kem bak and
enturd into aem, and pozest aem, and med aem

Tg't                    -Tljirba*


78
strong for bat]. And ad km tu Gem in drfmz o
ae nait, and infonzd intu em a p6rgun ov abr dn
kwolitiz.  And hi aat tuk pozceun ov Dak Qir
man woz wens a fdmus cif in ai Oksident, and
woz kbld Tikumsi; hwail ae mentor aat inspirited
Dak Granit woz an en cent hird bai ae nim ov
Yulisz, aat formerly dwelt in ui Orient.
And Dnk Granit biko-m   waiz and abgus and
hi wud not miv doun ae FIaurwotur until hi
had siknird al kntri on hiz left and raft, s6 aat ci
enemi kud not kum in bihaind him. Nou aer weri
td Isrj and veerikruked strfrmz aat rdz in aI Ali.
getur mountenz, and ran up t6rdz Norland  az if
Gs wigt tu entur ae pnrur rj unz hwer Fridima
rizaided. And ae went windin alon said bai said,
yer nir ic vaur, for a Ion distans, until ae ret a
Haiurwotur rivur, ihwic biin a stronger strim dvur-
pound aem and turned aem bak intu ae Fsiaur-
wotur, nir Ge suaurnm6st point ov Norand, at a
ples hwer purpecual kloudz ov fjipgan drknes
obskur ae vijun ov ai inhabitants. And GO
hui livd4 on GO banks ov aiz rivurz, hwenae pos
hou lvinli ae' klun tugeaur in Ger k6rs, sed,  iz
nr twin bruaurz; and ae kold aem Twin Siz  G
noraurn strim woz ols6 n6n bai ae vlgar nern ov
KInburground. And hwen Dnsk Granit p      osivd
iat Ge Twinsi kuntri woz ae ki o oae F pcrwot
ur vali, and so ae dlespuret efdr s Gat wnrwo-d
bai ae Drag6nianz ti h6ld it for er bati
hi ditermini aat hiz fUrst faitin  'd b' grnd
hi sent up Raitfut, ae komandun o  hiz   s
storm e stronhdldz ov ae Twinsi hwie I on hiz

79

j1W5 x jtb~r.

rait. Aftur aiz had bin tskn, Duk Granit mniva
forward on e left tu Oe Kumburground, and sur-
ounded e kasl ov Dbnip.sun, hwer a grd't armi
ov Drag6niaIZ wer gaaurd.  And ae Drag6nian
komander, i Dnk Flaiinaff, assd tu fait, but ac nor-
uEn mountenlrz dvurpourd him, and n1ounte  iz
bulwurks, and kut doan ae b6ldest of' hiz woi-
yurz, and piest aem s6rli til naitf bl. And hwen
Fla.inaff so Gat e bati had gon agenst him, and
aat hi and hiz jenz mst bikum kaptivz on ao
mord, hi ot ov b1 hiz aefts and hiz roburiz hwic
hi had komited, and hi woz eafr'd ta surendu
himself tuo ae kn, lest hi 9ud bi. trutdlaik a SMa'-
efaktur az hi woz, and bi hun up bai Oaenek. S
hi kbld hiz leftenant, and ge'v him iz plimz and
hiz epolets, and plst him in hiz sted, and in-
strukted him  hwot tu d  on ae mord.    And
hwen hi had put 61 ai in ord     am, hizrz up and
tak hiz Pild undur liz arm, and fled, and iAdhiz
eskep in ae deirknes ov ae nait, and woz herd
ov n6 m6r.
=        And GO nest d6 woz ac de ov ae Sun, hwic
woz a sdkred de, and hwen ae mornia broke and
, Dbinsn kas1 began tu ghitr in ae gdn lai, G
leftenant hsnd t me'k hiz submigun, and tu -di-
ivr intu ae handz ov e viktur 61 hiz woryrz
aat rimsnd alaiv. And as kounted ae number ov
ae kaptivz and found aem tu b urtin uouzand
men.
Gen ae Granit DOak turned hiz fd s agen tu ae
west, and tuk up hiz lain ov marc for ae Fiaur-

+ t
.   ,


80

wotur. But hwen hi had krost ae Twinsf hi
found Duk Pretigrd   w i  a grdt armi in hiz
furnt, nir a tempi (tat woz ndn  az ae Sailent
Cure. And aeta trinrmiz joiiid bati, and ad foto
aril t diz, hwie wer (Le ddz ov ae Sun and M0n,
and aen rested, bikbz ae pkds woz s6 aikli kuvurd
wi pailz ov ded and daii n aat ad kud n6 longer
mvu dvur ae ground. And a kounted ae sldnp
and wdnded ov ae kinz drmi and found ae nun..
bur woz twais ten aouzand ; but ae Drag6nian
ded wer td nimurus tu kount.   And Pretigird
sent and bisbt Prins Jefur  at hi wud giv him
m6r woryurz, lest ae Granit Dik gud s z upon
ae Faurwotur, and ae grdt vali bi forever lost.
And grdt numburz wer sent on tu sukur him ;
and hi gaaurd (em around ae Korinaian kolumz
aat stud bai ae rdsaid on ae wd tu Mumifrs.
But Dnk Granit went forward and disperst aem;
and hi prest on to Mumifds and tuk it. And hi
brdk ae cdn aat had bin street akros ae Faur-
wotur, and distroid ae Dragunz wotur-ramz aat
wer swimin up and doun ae rivur, and butin at
evuri m(n aat kem in aer wd. len hi mdvd doun
ae rivur tu atak ae Wiked siti. And hi found it
woz bilt hai and strop,and terest up from (10
wotur baturiz tu a sumit, and its wblz wer ful
ov dirk h6lz arl hwie bl manur ov burnin gelz
and aiurn bblz wer gourd upon ae gip(s aatemt-
ed tu pas, and upon evuri enemi aat vencurd nai.
And wun ov ae kin z ofisurz sed, Let us mk a
nu r6d for ae- Fdaaurwotur, (at hi md 116 tu (10
,7

I

r ' ? " t rtr i 4jithx.

fi!

aga     and m -,   ita
s bai a str t canel, at a distant from  sit a
bi n6 longur difaild bai kontakt wi its polbut e
soil. 56 ad dug a na care br od anJd  ut n t
FacurwotUr woz 61d    and  slkgi, an d   n
cinj hiz k6rs tu akomodst ae nn-agld n    u
fur ov frendz or foz.
e nuX ira ov Fridima woz non nea at hanf
but D"k Granit, laik Rdzikron, woz impkent for
sm  vikturi bif r  ai  61d  yir  ud  z  S o i   ad
Dik Qrman, in hnm     h  rozd ontdens, and
sent him  doun  ie strim  wiabovW kedurg, and
rmi on al isturn 96r pust au AndDkidrman
mik an atak from                         .ne norf. hi  oz ordrAnd
went and fktd a landing azhi woz ordurdp  And
ari dsz bif6r ie na yr hi led hiz twips up o
(et wolz ov e siti, and an aouzand ov  z  w at
yurz wer smitn doun bai 410 fai ebizui Gat
swept dvur and around (em.- -And t gvnaid
hwer (s trod woz soft and mairi, and atndyntaid
ue skaiz p6rd doun aer rni oir and l1b
wnded and dain sunk intu ae mai and      hwe
nait in pitiful helplesn0  an nizur. Ansktprgu
ae morning woz kmu,   -k      h- ask   e   hic
tu beri hiz ded and bri. awhdiz wrorde  ast
woz granted. And hwenp hi ha     aformd e l-
sad ofisez for hiz fbln kumradz, h  onrd rhiz
idnX ov hiz woryurz, and pl6st (elnmn rhid
veselz and brbt aerm bak to   amp
at Milkinpenz.                        divaiz na
Aftur ais fdlyur hk Granit bigan t    e aints
skimz for disloji. ae DIragonianz


hwerin as trusted. And hi sent out hiz gips and
hiz pafaindurz tu penetrdet ae lks and somps
and Roundabout bdyuz on ae rait hand and on ae
left, if purcans ad mait find a wd for hiz gips and
armi wiaout pasin undur ae wblz ov ae siti, but
Qe kud faind nun. And hwven hi so aat ae Get.
muna had kum    and gon, and ae kiil m unt ov
Febrifnlj had ols6 past aw, and ae Md'ren imna
woz non fdr advanst, hi ditermind tu send hiz
wor gips strit doun ae strim and run gem past ae
siti under kuvur ov a dark nait, hwail hi wia hiz
dirmi msrct doun bai a surkniitus r d on ae west.
And (e gips and galiz wer ist from abr mdrinz,
and -havin put out abr laits, ad drifted sldli bai
ae frounin batiments, and wer not diskuvurd til
ae wer olndst biyond re.  Gen ac Drag6nian2
laited up abr fair, and hwen d s caat (le gipac
had gon bai, arr hiltops rizounded wit rej, and ac
spit out after aei strinz ov brimstdn and fair,
but bl tu nd purpus. And Dak Granit brot hiz d r,
mi around in sdfti, and havin rijoind hiz veselz hi
krost dvur and kdm in bihaind ae siti and bisi'jd
it. And hi ardd hiz gunz agent it, bda from 'ae
land said and from ae wotur, and rand upon it a
storm  ov fair bai do and bai nait.  Aid Da~k
Pepurkorn, hil stud wocin upon ae wblz, woz in-
dignant, and hi priperd tu difend himself ta
last.

CA PTUR XIII.

IN MAGNUS had nou plst DaTk Smua-
anik$ in cirj og ae l6ur rijunz ov cre
lFiurwotur, and Ferigift and      poP
wer dvUr ae gips. And bikbz Hlorntosur
w oz brv and derin, and woz n{iUr tim
urus laik Mikraki nor infleksibl laikour-
ninibrand, hi apointed him t hi kud ot
o     n istr Armi, and t6ld him tn i i  kudrot
pk sum ov e feurz from cre krest oveBdrohiz
i len Iorntosur put himself at re h    f6r
.         ad hi sent of DIak St6niman wi
wnoho ra"men tu raid nrd Vurjinlad, and to
Snz doun ce brijez, and tu let leis ae canelz ov
wotor-fludz, and tu dag around   e wl hi
e moU    and crus distract hiz enemiz, lwail hi
Riacmantoun, a    s     min front And on ae
w  hiz h61 kdrmi Rass(a em i  rne-     t at
sekun  d ov ce Meri mi;n ae tuarmz met
sekln    -v and a had a hot and bludi bati ov
Cten d zy O  ce furst ad ov ae fait sum ov aet i
s6ljurz bikdn konfizd, and s sPetur  a himself
talui  a.lu  zc6fe     hk1C3udisilplest himself
in flr   ut azaed I -' bId. wi won hand .and
in ar pa, brandiin  i u   And hi dr6v crem
ha adcr6 gtentr in ai uar.n e aundurin lijunz
' ba, adEa tornd agen upon(e

p 4  {''7
jij;jI
f; f,
,iE
.7
1 k
a

'u a,'
i  ti  ,'
'  i
,4 '
#
t fi '

I
'i ;;
ii i,
I'
'
f,
',.
!
S.
i  {
Yi
s
.
i  ! i
f''
't '


84             B~p     Saah-
ov St6nijak, and fot til ae sun went doun, and
gcn ue batl went on bai munlait. And a silescal
wocur aat woz lukin out from bihaind ae silver
lainin ov a kloud, lwen hi so upon ae banurz
ov Horntosur ae nm ov ae gud Fridima, and
pursivd aat hur kbz woz in ddnjur, stept doun
upon ae pldn hwer ae fait woz aikest, and urd
a vdl 6vur (i aiz ov ae men aat fold Stdnijak-
And ad kud not si ie fis ov abr lidur distinkt-.
i, and hi apird, tu aem laik a Friddnian, and ad
leveld aer longturz and p6rd ar fair upon him,
and hi fel doun and daid.     Oe nekst morning
Bdldrobin rind ae batl, and hurld hiz koluinz
fotriusli agenst ae. Frid6nian ranks. But Horn-
tosur put forward ae Beriin Dnk and ae Burnin
Da ck tu rizist him, and a dvuerkdm him, and kuv-
urd ae ground wia hiz ded. And B"eriin bD c
himself woz slin. And aer fel ov ae Dragnianz
(tin aouzand men ; and  ov ae Friddnianz fiftin
aouzand.
And Horntosur woz trubld bikbz hi kud not
hir ae huf bits ov St6nimanz horsez, for as wer
nou far awd; and hi sed, Peradvencur hi haz met
wia dizastur.  And hwail hi weted and tisd tii
kac ai eko ov hiz trampin, ae kloudz ddrknd and
a gret storm ov rdn fel from ae skai, and ae
Rapidrun and Rapidnokin rivurz kdm aundurin
doun from  ae mountenz, on hiz rait and hiz left,
and aretnd tu engulf him in abr torents. And
hwen hi so ac fludz aat wer raizin around him, hi
fird aat hiz lain ov ritrit wud bi kut of; s6 hi

-jadra hiz drmi, and ad riturnd dripig and doun-
kast tu Fo1nmoua and rested aer.
Prins Jefur woz non ildted, and hi tuk counsel
"     Dragun and sed, ([is iz ae taim for us tu
vi our strenna for ae koronen de ov Fridima
z at hand, and  e Normen Ar priperin to sele-
brt it wi pomp and rijoisin sue az woz nevur
For cd hav ripndiited our alaians forever,
n hav olredi idd aer planz for mariin Fridim
P rins kwoliti, hd aspairz tu re suvurenti
ov aIOrient, and hwen ae ynyun iz efekted ce
tuge u  riei    cr   wurild.  But let  us  pul  out  ce
tuge from undur iniz fain erkaslz, and put a stop
ti arz - korondgun ddz, and turn Qbr holidz and
-c-e inoz intu m6rnful wlinz and bitur tirz.
For ioisr wel bl tu send our armiz intu Nor-
land and wi wil tdk pozegnf ov   abr kin and hiz
kanptal and ae sitiz and tounz and stronh6ldz gal
lapi ,  dts at our apr6c, and bl ce g6ld and sil-
ur ov re land gal bi ourz.    For Pins Jefur
had s kret events in Bruursiti and G6aam, and
s rt tounz, hd stud wdtin tu 6pn ae gdts;
ad olso dnjurns serpents, klad K6braz, tu hi let
is upon  e pip1 ov ic siti az fast az ae Drag6-
nian 4rmi kdm on.
And  e Dragun apruvd ov Prins Jefurz plan,
nd c sent ordurz ta B6ldrobin, tu pres forward,
and cr wud giv him az meni sdljurz az hi nd-
ed And wc6 ggacrd    ar f6rsez from  ai ist and
west, and cre woryurz wer laik l6kusts for mul-
titad, and abr gado dirknd ae land.     And ae

j ~

f "


,r atx~  Thaj  xdbn.

tuk up cer lain ov mire fbr ae kinz pales, but
Horntosur stud in aer paa and prevented iem-.
So ae dru. of trd  e west, and went bai wd ov
e mountenz ard ae Lafingap and      9ainind'r-
And ae krost ae Boundarimiark rivur and enturd
intu (e Penwud valiz, plundurin and distroiin az
ae went.
And ae Normen sh (at ae taim ov aer sdr
traial woz kum; for if ae kud not bit bak ae
viktdrius lijunz ov Sunland ac must bikum (er
bondmen and serv aem forever. And e Pen-
wudianz sent in hst for helpurz tu  b  i rijun
round about; and ae kin kbld upon ae rdilrz ov
(e provinsez tu lend Qer dd and r61 bak ae tail
ov invdjun.  And hi sent of ordurz tu hiz ips
and woryurz aat wer upon ai isturn 96r tu sn
up are rivurz  and atak ae Dragun in hiz rir.
Glen Jefur woz grdtli alkrmd and sent of in hest
tu kl bak B6ldrobin, but it woz tdi l6, for hi
woz nou far up in the Pen wud hilz.
And sevn dz bif6r korondun ds ce kin sent
for Dnk Huniwotur, and gdv him kormand ov
i arrmiz, and cirjd him tu miv wdrili and tu
brin B6ldrobin intu hiz sner, and bai nd minz
sufur him  tu eskdp and riturn tu hiz mistur.
And DCtk Huniwotur pursivd aat te strugi wud
bi despuret and bludi; and hi silekted "e val ov
Deusburg  for hiz batl filed, and  mir ald hiz
h6sts on Sepulkur hil, soua ov Cae siti, and iV
ordurz tu hiz cffs aat if (e' -seni woryur turn
hiz bak tu ae fd, ae penalti gud hi instantorna

And Boldrobin, si (Xe p14s hi had silekted, mid
hiz wd tu  e ssm spot, and tk pozegn ov (est
hilz on 1e nor, and ai 6kn rijez on (e wst,
li - vn lead/z  ardi a  klasik  ibuti ovur  ae  pisful
hdz ivnn 9 aiur hi brbt biz infantri, and hiz
ve.li and hiz   rtllri, a hundred and fifti great
g  n,  d field ae wudz wi, hiz worlaik ar.
And on ae furst de ov (e muna Jdius (e ati
Fan.For B6ldrobinf woz a kgs tu    i    hi
big d  p  ov  luniwotur had ol kum up;i so
hosted and put forward Dnk Erlistrt, h    e
-1e upon (e Frid6nian bandz aat wer n a
vans ov re rest, and kapeurd about ar aouzand
en.    Ule nest dd  e kontest woz rinu  wi
men.       fi   and ae kanun p6rd    er aurn
storl grun e Round tops and Granit spurz ov
storpk  hil and tar ard ae wudi aikets ov ae
Wulvz' mounten ; and ai nrtluri ov  e -Normen
pdld and splintrd  i .dncent Oks binma 11vc ae
nhad tdkn 9eltur.            And ae d
6robinhd had led   Xe asolt Upon Sepulkur
hl, riturnd tu aer cif hwen (e sun went ou,
lt and tu risiv ordurz for (e morn.
to kons  . (at -(Xe nest dd wud hi (e turn
point ov vittoi or difft, and az cis bati went
p(inXd bilv  wud turn e forcun ov ae wor. And
about midnait (e Blak Dragun, having her
Cati    and biin rouzd tu an unwanted pic ov
eksaitment, left hiz pales and glaided alone  (Xe
saimen X nt ui hi riot ae kamp ov hiz
s ienso; and  iinfzd inta ai ofisurz and s01-

86

i

87

41

iit

C   r r   C '    i "


jurz b1 ae vairus ov hiz necur, and miglin wie
ac ranks hi brifrd upon an hiz poiznus and in..-
toadar nzbrea, until aer aiz glisnd laik dimunz
fanirA   n    arobd Wi ae hit ov an unerali
fair. And aaet dnin vpr at got from hiz nlos-
trilz fil  ae tent hwi           an   hiz dks
.edri.kin   vain, inspairin aem  Wia ae lust
ov venjans.  And Daik Yelwel rdzd hiz hand
and svor wia a bludi a aat on ae mor hi
wud kut iz we intu ae hirt ov ae Frid6nian
.            1mi or intu ai infernal rjunz. And ae rest ap
d him and routed dmen.
Wia a  d~n  v dc e despuret strugi Wvuns
mrl bigan.  And B6ldrobin     ektd Yewwnst
atak and brk ae rait win o  ae Frid6nian irmi
and aus priper ae wd for ai dvurhwelin asolt
hwie hi had rizervd for      r
did not suksid, and after hi uouzand ov Yez yer-
yurz had bin smitn d oun tu ae ground hi si-
enli gaapurd up ae remnant and wiadrd. .     e
langur ov bat[ nou s'st and 61 woz kam  and
kwaiet az a sumur si. But Bdldrobin woz sikret-
li konvin hiz grdt gunz around are ae forest from
ae nora tu ae west, hwer hi ekspekted tu mek
hiz vikturi 9pr. And ae Xormen wer jo      n
lait ov hart, for ad had nd at o ae teril stand
aat woz tu fbl upon aem er ae dd kldzd. And
ae gaaurd around aer kamp fair, and brekfasted,
and sat doun upon ae gras, and med aemselvz
meri, and san soz. And ae wurda h '       suz
wer aiz:

Osami'z a s6ljr in ai semi ov ae Lord,
1Hz s61 iz martin on.
Osamiz napsak iz strapt upon hiz bak,
Hiz s6l iz marci on.
Osamiz musket gdz fairin awd,
Hiz s61 iz marc on.
Osamiz pet lamz wil mit him on ae wd,
Az ad g6 mirein on.
Nonu arfcirz for Samukl and Fridima,
Az wi g6 mircin on.
(Ie soxnz had daid awd, and ae midd4 ourz went
pisfuli bai, ontil ae belz in ae tourz ov Deasburg
strUk a', henlsudenli ai 6kn hilz wer 01 aflem,
adkot a1, hg1 igan tu skrim ardi ai r, and ae
fild wia flain nisilz hrin dea
h601 atmosfir woz           --NT
on abr wilnz and swipin ard ae kamp ov ae   of
men.   And ad started up in terry, and aer ol-
la and rokt binia ai dvurhwelmin tempest
omz i'                     Undo aedgiiovfhd
from hwie ar woz    6 eskp.udura        t ov h
aat fli hai above hz lied, IDnk Iailand woz sin ka-
ririn akros ae vali, fol6d kl6sli bai Lonstep and
ae hevi batalyynz ov Dak Stedidrm. And hwen
ad had riot ae fut ov Sepulkur hil, aer woz a l
in ae fairin, and 16, ae Drag6nianz wer asendin
ae hilsaid and advansin wia flaiin banurz tu ae
cAj. At ais instant a gadd simd tu pas dvur ae
sin, and 'ae Normen lukt up and sb a tourii

}a

Osamiz bodi laiz mn61durnin Qo grey',
1hz s61 iz mrci     on.

88

89

R T
-laffUt'S A' Talifirba.


90

form, wi a dim outlain, havi ai apiras ov a
ain lait kloud, and 94pt aftur ae similitad ov a
man, but ov kolosal magnitid. Its fit apid u
rest upon ae ngeunz kapital, hwail its hed eksten.
ded up intu ae bln skai, and woz surounded wia
a hdlo ov wundrus bati. Don its brost fldd a ion
silvuri bird. Its ]on and bdni rait arm, ari hwic
ae suez rez 96n fibli, woz street out tdrdz aoa
nora, and held in its grasp (e rizemblans ov a
s6ljurz musket, from ai end ov hwie fidd a zigzag
strim ov ilektrisiti, pointin dounwurdz, laik a be
yunet, in ae direkgun ov ae Drag6nian h6st. (e
et arm ekstended far aws tu ae sonaw rest, point-
in wia a Ion p6l, skersli dizernab], tdrdz ae lofti
spairz ov ae Wiked siti qat 16 on ae banks ov  e
Faaurwotur. For a moment ae sdlj urz stud g'zi'
in wundur at ais _strinj spektakl; aen taooren
raid out simultdniusli,  It iz  e gdst ov Osami,
wia hiz musket and hiz paik"! And ce wurd fla
from rank tu rank, and sun a gout for Osami and
Fridima tor rae welkin laik ae burstin ov a aouz-
and aundurz.   And ae hirts ov ae woryorz gru
furm az adamant, and ai flektrik kurent ran alone
caer nervz, hirdnin crem intu still. And as fist ev-
uri man hiz b6yunet, in laik manur az s had sin
upon ace skai, and dagt agenst abr enemiz wia a
fnn aat numnkud rizista
fari rat nuain kud rizist.  Doun went hors and
raidur ; doun went arrmz and banurz.  (lIe Lunz
ov Stedirm wvurd for a moment, and cen drop
on cer iz, hwail ae vikturz swept dvur aem, and
r6ld ard rae vali az ce surjez ov ci 69un r61 hwea

I

taid and tempest boa pres aemi on. And B6ldrob-
in, hwen hi sb ae magnitnd ov hiz -dizastur, hisnd
and got him up intu ae mountenz, and gaaurd ae
remnants ov hiz Armi, and slun: awd wia hiz mas-
tur ae Dragun tu ae pl4s from hwens ad6 kdm.
And ae sdm d- Duk Pepurkorn kdm out from
as wblz. ov Wikebrg, and prizented himself tu
Dak Granit. And hi gdv him    ae ki ov ae siti,
and surendurd hiz woryurz, aurti aouzand in
number, and ti. hundred grdt, gunz wia -hwic tu
salt ae stiri banur ov Fridima on ae korondgun
noro.

91

f
1   1 f
}

00

N'Taglivs TP4,rho


93

t~ft bu

CAPTUR XIV.

LOURIN and ghtmi, ae Blak Dragun ri-
enturd hiz pales and sumund Prins Jefur.
And   hi tdld him ov b ae dizasturz raat
a had bifbln aer kbz, and hou hi had sin e
gdst ov Osami, and had found a silescal
wordurz huvurin round ce "banurz ov Fri-
dima, and aat hi dind it ydsles tu kari
on (e wor in hirnan waiz eni longer. Hi cen
propozd  tu telegraf tu hiz four, hi livd in
ai uaur planet aat woz l6ur doun, and rikwest
him  u giv aem dd. But for ais purpus it wud
bi nesesari aat Prins Jefur gud giv himself up
and olsd hiz principal ciftenz, tu bi entairli und-r
huz fdaurz kontr6l, and to alou e mesenjurs ov
hiz faur tu entur into aem and mik nem ai in-
struments ov  abr wil, tm wurk out abr objects in
aer dn we. And bl cre instruments hwid hiz fi-
aur mait ydz tu kari out hiz purpusez must band
gemselvz bai a frm    obligegun nevur tu diz-
ert or rinouns hiz servis, but tu obs him in b1
ains and olwez. And Prins Jefur kounseld wict
Lord Judas and hiz uaur advaizurz, ha wer at
furst du tu baind aemselvz, but fainali konsent-
e. (len cre sent a telegram tu ae Red Dragun

P1

-       ov 10 sikret wairz cat yu-
ov Tofet, baiimnz     Ad    e.rto     ae Red
"atel i10ti planets.  And ae0.hairt ov o    e
halted ae tupae,.g                    esfrn
a oz nvd wi kompagun for ae sufuri.    .
Do h    v   and hi sent of spidili a lijun ov ma-
hgnant spirits t rendur tu ai eradw ehu'z ae se
vis ad asstanS ca6 nided. And (16 kinbiat
vis and asis             -   Jef. and hiz min-
and  wer  introdist  t 1 Prins  Jefulte  and  adn jd
istrz;andhaen (16 had konsulted, and   rnd
Cer panztu  ncual satisfakgn, as ivaided cem-
ivr plantu b   , and went out tu silekt abr in-
stleit. bAnd, itwoz agrid aat sum ov aerm
stuments.inu    G6aamaits, and inogurdt a pan-
gud enter intu ae siti; uarz wer tu vizit foren
intriz and aur up dd menz kl iz and bl sorts
onplngz and poiznz and bri. am 6vur and
ovpleg ad  distroi i inhabitants ov ae land;
skar  abrod tu  n   (n 1  woturz  and  burn  ae  siti;
aauz swer tu     rosid ti Sndland, and fdniii
and se nbwer tposrz ov pis, kari on ae wor
S emsenz ov spaiz and murdururz hd kud strain
b   inz o   n   cre m6st despuret ov aeo  wer
pioided.   nfenal maginz bay hwic a   mait
pitrovaice ki min   ales and hiz kounselurz in
cro beifbu z pe cif ov aiz woz Gaif bks, a
drbeacnburz.  a f  r 63 ndurtuk t b16 up ae
diimen h- in a formoBla  hiz daiaboikal kontraiv
panienbut fBld; hi had nou gr6n waizur in hiz
ansez,but fdld;  u tu train hiz hand VulS nd.r.
kraft and woz ankge9US t  ae  A m-    oworfer
Ue furst ekshibigoa ov   he   a sdn o v or
i Gab  dsnon hwic  a skwd n ov
fiSpirits med caer disent about ae midov    o
I~l spn


94

ATITh J~ir.

mtnrr J'lins.  And (1 siti wozsw
K6braz bisin out asi venun;     snd  ei od wig
Grnailurz wer bitn bai (erand    z     w
gem, and az aa:t wer b~it
went mad, and ran hiarr and hi.ar, burnir houz-
ezand stonn ae wocurz ov ae siti. And hwen
ever  e so -eni ov ae Ku anz cga
stdnd crem  wi st6nz, andgb tem   wicasklu
and hun tem up in are strits, and hakt and hnd
aem in pisez and burnd (em. And te cif rilr,
huz nemin woz Gudsmr, spsk kainkdli tu ie di.
momiaks and krmfurted aem; and crd routed for
Gudsimur and iB6ldrobin, and for Prins Jefur and
ae Dragun, and cer goutinz and raiutinz izo nna..
ed arinu ae siti for Iri dez.  And hwen ce kinz
ofisurz wer awer ox it, crd sent cer irmed bandz
tu asist ae wocurz, and   '6 s^ an       e
. , ae sU and disperst aec
men intu hdm ae find had ent            .
ented, and r"1cikverd
ae siti, cat it mait agen bikum a sif abdd for
hnman inhabitants.
And cd eat km    up from ale Iar planet brot
wia cem   paturnz ov ae priznz and tenplhouzez
in Helha, her      e Rd D- -
n elham, h wercRedlragun rizaided. And
aer woz a femus tempi rat stud on ae 96r kold
Nstrond, aat iz bai interpretieun Deastrand, cec
wlz ox hwic wer bilt ov adrz.   ee fsez ov  lz
serpents wer turnd inward, and from acbr mouaz
i9ud strimz or poizn, formin a nivr' cat Ildd ard
ae vast strukcur.  Kwin Hela woz tie
. .a      ,   ."oz                 eBodes aat
pnizaided ovur it, and woct ae priznurz sent tu
hur for sif kipig,  le ardh upon hwic gi sat woz
angwie ; hur tdbl woz famin; hur atendants wer

i
' j
p pj }'
ii    (
I
it
$+
irr
{,' )
;1 ail
fa
t)
Y

;T 17

pad  hur bed woz lines; 91
Ekslivid and gastli p1, and hur veriluks in-
-o            An    ered Dragon hadgi.
spaird horur.  Ande hd                    hiz
strikt crj tu.  Rufwild and Wurstovrkt ov hi
m6st skilfil d inunz, (lat  e gu -oir 6 fAr ias
a temptin Sunland on ae sem plan, sf
prktikab, wio hwot matirialz (6 lkud faid in
ae kontri, aad aat (s gud f1 it wif riievnri
ov hunt won hundred wer tu b sa
d-.WrtV                         after konsult-
And i Rufwind and Wurstovbl, aft     rminutd
in win Prins Jefur, silekted from  ti r   ttr
Drag6nianz 1at wer admirable adaptedt ier pua-
us, wun ov him  woz a jenural an     dizu and
fizigun. And jae tuk pozegun ov asr bodiz and
- -n fazd aemselvz mitu    ezne       .
spirits, andiv~              t     e sm uil.
o lnd  zest bikdm  wun an  a       . --
pozesr u  po           rcnts under Prins
And cdoed  aer  furst  eksper  e  d  ie  pa
.6      ,- at Riemntoun, hwer          . fited up
LibcitiP~l nd lu'urhous, and fild     ge v
timz for sakrifaiz.  But hwen a sa     for  i
had zamfl"ie'idil~ iwozi disatisfaid, forh
frhad ez amind u  ll e ..do -unz for (Le
s   ad wer skersli ikwal tu ce    njn rin
ucanz hiwic wer blt bai aer on pip -diet Prins
Jefur advaizd wib (e dimnlz,   s ov Deastrim,
pls1 kbld Dedmansvil, on ce baasim og Deielaz
hwer s abt ad kud prods a    taksi  ound,
l6 Rufwid                arkt o.t hiz g
6n pales.                 kolek tedob l a  dr
and dr    hiz dedlain, and  o   bi  i aUi
and ratlsnskst hi kud fand, ad - wod   sp in
tuae 10 l, wic a cbr fesez lukin inwurd, s  cat

95

'  1
!  4 .
,;
ii
1t  _
i,
e
.E   '
'i
,.
H


00   t1fl jri f x

ad mait pdr aer venum  upon Ge recez kongrigs-
ted wiain.  And hi had houndz Laik ae houndz
ov Hela birkin round about, redi tu siz and tar
eni aat gud atempt tu eskip.   And hwen Ruf-
wind had komplited ae wbl, hi lukt upon it wia
a dilaited kounteians, and laft for joi, and sed
hi wud bi ov mur serves tu Prins Jefur aan 61
ai drmiz ov B6ldrobin. And a kbt aurti aouz-
and Frid6nianz and dr6v aem inta Gi enkldjur,
and Rufwind    stript aem  ov aer k]dain, and
Wurstovol, he woz a   doktur, tuk cirj ov aer
fad and medisin.   S6 hi gdv aen stdrvyd'rn for
aer mit, and poizn for aer drink. And Ge poizn
went doun intu aer bled, and field aem wia pntrid
sorz, and ae l rotin in fila and vermin until ae
steno spred dvur ae h61 rIjun, and woz b6rn on
ae windz til it riot ae noraurn hilz and enturd ae
nostrilz ov Samunkl.   And Wurstovol mingidn
wia hiz. medisinz sum sikret cirm, bai hvi hi
drd out ae fie9 from  under ae skin ov hiz priz.
nurz, s6 aat ae b6nz hun lusli az in a bag, and
as mivd and toturd in a manor aat woz hor-
ibl tu bih6ld. And ae doktur wud msk ae skel
etunz get up and dans bif6r him for hiz aniiz-
ment, and hwen ae kud not raiz hi wud aretn
aem  Wia nu torments until ae did. And ae pdr
krieurz bikim dilirius, and ae fbt wiG ic uaur,
and dizaird tu dai, but kud not, for Wurstovbl
woz kerful tu prizerv aer laivz until  e taim for
sakrifaizin Gan  tu hiz mAstur.  (e number Gat hi
sakrifaizd woz fiftin aouzand, and a uaur fiftin

00

touzand hi kept alaiv az subjekts for hiz eksperi-
ments.
en      .mnZat went intu Sndland tuk poz-
And aedimon  aat  el 6bra, and naor ser-
egnn ov Sandadur and        k  ,an umsri sto
pentainl nicurs,  ad  e sent of Grinhilz and tu
brik 6pn  fe g61d voltz    i  ae  nditu kapeur
burn ae siti ov G6aam wi fair,a         and tu
Rickdrg6 and Baisntoun   and Swainasiti, ad
ht a paa ard Ge midst ov Kin. Magns' donin
yunz and. sever ae west from       sut . iand. a
h6st ov rfanz wer sturd up aru siondulan,
adt apointed  Vandalihamr, and  Swipendulum,
and Lonk6bra for aer lid g, a  aturit wtr
ov  Arrez, and  ltra swein and touring wurdzb
and imajind Gat WIG abr n tabe    a Drag6nian
bl tu dip6z ae kin and estb9
.aatihiz,       ud bi purpeCual.
ainasti hdz ren      and b iz kounselurz and ae
And hwen    e k and.G biud and kirnej, and
Waiz men ov ae lnds1a             -b aizand
GO blak  undur-loudz garndciftenz oBia
pursivd os6 Gat Ge prinsez anwifenDinoianz
and .Galia wer in sikret  ge wivz and
and hwen ad herd e wh    z ovi   Dedmandi
nufarz ov a6Z aat wer pent upd ini edarbr-
Gd wer filed wiG biturnes an  gron iy ae bur-
dnz  nd rsposibilitiz.  And. wun ov GOwai
anz and risponsiiii.-        kla Tribnnosofvr,
men ov G6aam hi aat woz       ldku,
rdt tu ue kin and t61d him G1t ae ppIs in
on"gr endnr Ger soroz, and ;,lat hi must in sum
w6 endevur tu mdk pis WiG     e Dragn  bf6r it
gud bi wurs wie aem aan it woz.        IGr


98              &amp;   m   W  sh.
advaizd ae ki a at bai wd ov 96in ae Dragun dr"
onor andnsekt  hgd b-1d'
onur and rispekt, hi    ud bu1d for him   a bri'
kuvurdi wig6ld, and invait him tu wbk awe
upon it, and pas ovur tu sum uaur 96r; and
hadgon ovur, ae brij    ud bi brdkn
up, and ae g6ld givn tu him bai wdt,, akordin
tu ae royal standard, twenti aouzand gekelz twenty
aouzand taimz told. But ae  ,ropozal fd   ti
-     epropozl    d dt uin-
dikot a spot hwer ai uaur end ov "e brij mait
rest, and ae ki  nn aat ae Blak Dragun woz to
sagecus tu mare of intu ae si wiaout bn gir
ov obtenin a solid futin in sum u     -ur - j i
said; hi a't0ae Dragun had kost ae kuntri enuf
olredi, wiaout ofurin him  eni furaur bountiz.
And Sandador and hiz asdcidts, hd wer ful or
sutlti, rdt t tae Tribinosofur tu intursid for gen,
and proknr aem an bdiens wia ae kin.    And ad;
invaited him tu vizit aem in Sndland tu help for-
wurd ae wurk ov pis and kompromaiz, s6 aat bl
mait bi harmonius agen az bif6r; for as nn aat
bun an onest man hi. woz unsuspigus ov gail in
vaurz, and aerf6r wud bi ae m6r izili entangld
in aer snerz. For biin ankgus aat evuri ain in ae
ydnivers gud bi gud and plezant, and ful ov bin-
evolens laik himself, hi woz Ida tu billy aat ivl
egzisted in eni wurld eksept hwer hi sh it wia
hiz aiz; and hi kud not bi purswdded ait fa
Blak Dragun had a fdaur, or at      aer woz eni
Red Dragun, hii livd in a l6ur sfir and sent out
hiz emisariz on erandz ov miscif. Hi aerf6r did
not hezitdt ti aksejt ae invitsgun oy ae daiaboli-

99
an;, and  ia  ld kz purmi un went tI vizit em.
E, 5pzii   -our ov ae0 n6gunz agoni woz nai,
hd sited   eiselvz on ae brink ovf ae Naiagoni
katarakt, and wer dilaitin aernselvz wia gezia up-
on its iejezov distruk9un. And hwen ae so ae
Tibinmoofejez opr     smaild upon him  agra-
i  b    a   p  lizd  wia  a r  smi a  wurdz.  B t
b.1,and h1 woz pai
1.r;i woz ankus for him, firing lest hi mait
ae ki.o.ngu          r     ,    .
,     -   and bikum  a viktim tu aer dplisiti.
b hi  sent  a  mesenj tur  to ut an  end  tu ae  kon-
f iurens,   and  e losofur  riturnd  in  sfti  t u hiz
h6m. And hi kontinyud tu dd ae kin gud se'-
-s, and h'  pok  u tae1 ipl wurdz ov wizdum,
and  enkurejda sp e m b histro n  for  a e wor,  un-
il  (Le nBlak Drag un   ud  konsent  t u  kwit  a 0
kuntri.
Bti ha Blak ragon 9
But -e v, and    Fridima had md     p ar
B    n  t e  huteur  distres  m ait  bitaid,  n6  fur-
auaz at hor evkompromaiz ud bi ofurd tu
a  BakDagun, nor wud ad furnig a singl sil-
u'o Bi1la  D oun. bri'  ae  mortifikdun  ov  hiz  di-
vocur, o tubild a monyument for hiz grSV.
p reur, or 1tu

i


CAPTURE. XV.

101

ITE RMIND at last tu krug out eafov
ae Dragun and waip him from   ae fs o'v
ae planet or dai in ae atemt, Kir Mag-
nus adrest himself tu ae wor in ernest.
And amun bl hiz jenuralz hi found nun
ikwal tu Dak Granit; for olad aer ver
ni loftier and mdr majestik woryurz
in biz servis, and adz hd kud fait betur in ae
beginning ov a bad, ier woz nd wun h stud s6
irekt in ai end. For hi woz laik a rok in ai
ocun aat Inks blae freur and ferur fr ae sur.
ez aat swfp dvur it, And ae kin sent for lhim t
kum and fait B6ldrobin, hnm   hiz uaur jenuralz
had aloud tu slip rdi aar fingurz and eskdp af.
tur as had konkurd him twais.
But bif6r hi left ae rijunz ov ae Fdaurwotur,
Dnuk Granit kli'rd ie canel ov ae Twinsi bd ce we'
up tu ac mountenz; and hi drdy ae Drag6nianz
out ov QaddinUk, and cst aem up tu  e top ov
ie LukdvUr mounten, hwer as difaid him tu roc
aem. And Horntosur woz sent tu asdl acm and
draiv aem doun. And hi went up and fot aem
on ae sumit, for it woz abuv at kioudz; and aer
hi iund Grs tbrag, and hi 8truk him wig ae tip
ov hiz horn and test him doun ae presipisez.

And hi went rolin 6vur and dvur until at last hi
fel intu Cte Cikenmokin bruk, hwic served tu kill
hiz drdur sumhwot, and tu diminig hiz brag and
blustur. And Brskin~brij woz wia him, and hi ol-
s6 br6k doun and fel intu ae strim.   And D"Ik
Granit left Qirman and Horntosur tu luk aftur
ae br6kn fragments ov Grdtbragz 4rmi hwail hi
went tu si fae kin.
And ae kin risivd him wia onur, and med him
cif kapten ov bl hiz armiz, 1st, -west, nora and
soua; and hi kbld upon Samunkl for faiv hundred
zjnz m6r ov freg woryurz. -And hi i9ud hiz
StToIenz ta ae Kuganz,  bidin aem rali ndur ae
Frid6nian flag, and fait for aemselvz and for aer
kuntri. And ad kdm bai hundredz and bai aouz-
andz, hwerever ae kinz invitsgnu riot aem, and
gurli joind ae ranks ov aer dilivururz.  And ae
grt gunz ov Samunkl bigan tu aundur and laitu
bl round ae horaizun. And Datk Kilmdr wdvd hiz
simitur alone ai isturn k6st, and Dlgrin, a sun ov
ai 69un, woz sent wia gips and fltin tourz tu ed
him in rikuvurin St6nipail kasl, and in ae kapeur
ov C(irlztoun, ae orijinal den hwer ae rat1sneks
wer hact;. And as sent intu ae siti abr f;miri mes-
enjurz and abr swonpstnjelz, and baturd doun ac
wolz ov St6nipail and m°d it a rain, but ae d:rd
not entur it for fir ov ae serpent :aat wer kon-
sild amun ae rocks and rubig.
And hwen ae spring 6pnd, Dik Granit tuk up
ae gantlet aat B6ldrobin had ardn doun, and miret
alone. e lain ov advans aat Dditwel and Miklmaki,

im%  tttts Diz, ui tl"b


102

g         al 1otba.                           103

Burninbrand, Horntosur and Huniwvotur had bin
undb1 tu foId. And hi tuk ae lain in hiz hand
and t6Id ne ki1 hi gud not let g6 until hi riotni
end ov it, if it tuk him b1 smurnr. And h i 
ted Fridima tu akumpani ai drmi- s       W
alor win nem.    And hwen hi had hum    tu  e
Waild wudz nat 1s beyond n Rapidrun rivur, h
found ne wudz filed wia ae woryurz o, Bd1dobi,
a  nu  and  mait  irmi, hwie nr  ldur  d 'md  in
sibl. And ns fhird upon ne Friddnianz    im - s
and iket, and cirjd upon lem, and fot   i  for
tu dez. And cr wer sln and wdnded     s    r s
about ten aouzand men. And at nait no     aid
nianz ritaird from nae Waildwudz tu noe rago..z
hwer ner wer fain spots of 6pn plaekonvinyont
for faitirn.  And   ae   i drmz agen joined bati,
and fbt for siks ddz lOngur. AndagIn omd   satl
and proues, and 6 no sikret help e  I  hiz ki
render him, Bddrobin woz nbl tu        nk
furmnesDtrPr al ntok
frmnes ov hiz antagonist. And Dpr ,esrokit
onwurd, and krost ne Cikenominws swomps
sat doun win hiz drmi t  bis'o     wonmps, and
emo, in Jaik manur az hi hd bis      dd
konkurd Wik~edborg.                   1sjd and
konurrd
And Fridima woz impd9ent, and    sd
go intu ne hirt ov Sunland, and k    u no ,  e.i
ganz tu fait for us, and Wi wil h   o   se Kur
vikturi, and gal not hay tu beri sda ei oivr
fanurz sdljurz, for it siknz mi tu Si no  ir
.And aftur konsidurin hr nrik west for a da  a
nait hi ford hiz plan and sent hur Wi ande s

ct

,.
-
.r
.;
Y
J

i

kort tu Dak Qirman, hi woz faitih St6nijon in
e Gorjsland, and direkted him tu asist hur, and
tu risiv and enkurej bl ae Kuganz 9i mait brig
him. And Qdrman klosli skriitinaizd hur kriden-
galz, for hi woz afrid gi wud giv him trubl. But
hwen hi sb hur kwinli b'rin, and hou majestik-
all si unfurld ae traikulurd banur, and hou cc
woryurz routed az gi past bif6r aem, hiz admir-
gn woz kindld, and hi ofcrd t go hwerevur 9i
wud point ae wd. Gen Fridima kast hur ai t6rd
i isturn si, and 9i t6ld him at hi must kut a
swo ard nae hdl breda ov ae Dragunz domin-
ynz, and ber glad taidi  ov dilivrans tu ae
wstiW skeletunz in Dedmanzvil, and swip alon ai
69un 96r til hi kud join handz wia hiz fel6 wor-
yrz at Riemantooun. And Dulk Qarman sed, It
is wel; ae did iz a despuret wun, but it gal bi
dn. And hi lifted himself up tu i okdjun, and
hi tk a hundred aouzand woryurz in hiz tren
and bigan hiz mare. And hi went dver ae moun-
ten rijez, draivin ae lijunz ov St6nijon bifdr him,
and rae ground guk binia ae trod of hiz woryurz
az if an erakwek had bin pasin. And Dik B9-
up6lk  ae grit Drag6nian s6ldoktur, met em am-
u   nae Painz ov  no mounted, and abr hi woz slen.
And hwen Stdnijon kud n6 longer stad in bat,
Dk Naithud, a furius and despuoet voryur, gn
naitli armor, kdm out tu mit aem, and bar abr en-
trans intu ae Gdtsiti. And bi fbt ari batlz and
voz diskumfited, and aer fel ov hiz w oryurz twen-
ti aouzand men.   And hi fel bak gagr ind an

F+   t
i   .Cd
£   f
a:


104
krestfbln, and left ae spdus phnz ov Goijusland
tu ae mersi ov ae konkurur. And hwen Dnk Qur-
man had past ardi ae Gdtsiti, hi kut asunder h-
lainz ov konekgun wi   ae west, and spred hiz
Winz for ai 69un. And ai igi skrind  an  Frid1
ma tuk hur pids in ae van, and gi put on hu
garment ov red, wait and bln     and a lroun
wvoz upon hur hed, and ae drurmz and trumpets
struk up abr viktdrius anaemz bai hur said.  nd
ie rdd gi travel woz-bijemd wie budz and blos
umz, and hwerevur gi advencurd tu put  e s61 ov
hur fut upon ce ground, fre9 blhmin rdzez spra
up binfa it;- and ae sprig flourz ov  e noiurn
prdriz spontiniusli burst fora dvur bl ae savanaz ov
Goriusland. And c(e Kuganz kdm ont tu mit hur
wia sonz and dansez; wict uer waivz and litl wunz
ae krouded around hur tu kis ae frinjez ov hur
star-spangld rdb; and niaur arts nor entrtiz kud
turn aem bak from foldin hur. And hwen ae Dra-
g6nianz sb e kroun aat woz upon hur hed,
trembld and prunk from hur gdz; and aer dnks
and prinsez kud not faind a single woryur aat der
opoz ae marc ov ae viktdrius armi s6 Ion az ci
woz at its hed.  And   -e vaiuri
.           e   apuriwbiz ovDed-
mansvil fel doun, and Wurstovbl and hiz women
fled haur and aiaur tu sik for haidin plsez hwer
ae mait not mit ae glans ov hur ai.
And hwen Dak     iirman bigan tu nir ci Iden,
and ae sound ov hiz trumpeturz rdld alon ce Sa-
vanaz aat 14 on ae kdst, Dik ILirdihud, hd' stud
sentinel in aat kwortur, lost hiz fortitna and hz

Owan Us  alsb.105
h"irdnes, and hiz nervz grd limp and lakes laik a
wumanz; and hi gaaurd up hiz ijnz bal nait,
and fled for refj tu Curlztoun. But ae muzik
and tranpin ov ae Frid6nian rmi fol6d him aia-
r os6l; s6 hi set fair tu ae siti and ran for hiz
aif. And Fridima enturd ae siti and wokt ariu ae
strits, and aic men ov Curlztoun grdi jenti and kem
out tu salt hur; and hwen as sb hur ad6 bik m
kaptivsted wia hr luvlines, and tuk an o6 aat
adi wud wurgip ae Dragun n6 m6r.
And lwen   e Dragun so aat Dak Granit had
kl6sli at him up on wun said, and at Qiirman
and Fridima wer presin him hard on ai uaur, and
wud sdn kut of hiz 6nli lain ov ritrit, hi bigan
tu prsiv aat hiz our woz at lena kum. And hi
r6ld and raiad in agoni, and ae purspiregon gugt
out from  binia hz glosi skslz, and hi kud get
n6 slip at naits, and hi had spazrnz and kontor-
gnz aat wer dredful tu bih6ld. (len Jefur and
B6ldrobin, siin hou ace gldri ov aer aidul woz 1d-
parted, konklinded tui liv him tu hiz fdt and Ink
6n1i tu ae srfti ov aenselvz and ae r armiz. And
it woz disaided aat B6ldrobin gud go out and giv
bal tu Dak Grant, and if diffted a6 wud eaen
abandun e pales and kapital, and mek aer we
souaward ard ae mountenz.   S6 B6ldrobin went
  out tu Iacet bruk, and a'er hi met hiz konkur-
urz, and ad6 m6d doun hiz woryurz and rod bak
and fora an1  &amp;r ranks and slotura aem  wia a
grdQt slotu .  And Da'k IHailand woz shin, and
Yelwel woz surounded and tdkn. And B6idrobm

I.

Kj


10

turned hiz fds tu e mountenz, but ae kavalri ov
Flit9erif wer on hiz trak, and hi kud turn  niar
tu ae rait hand nor tu ae left.'" And hwen hi sb
ai advansin Armi ov Dck Granit kldziu around
him, hiz joujment and hiz rizu riturnd, and hi rdzd
ue hwait banur and went out tu mit biz advur-
sari. And hi tuk of hiz helmet and -plnmz, and
mid hiz salut6gun and prizented Liz wepn tu Dtak
Grant; and Dik Granit tuk him   bai ae hand,
and ae hacet woz berid.
And ter stil rimdnd Dnk St6niion and fort
aouzand Drag6nian woryurz wocin o eo banks ov
ae Firful rivur for cii aprde ov Qirrnan and Fridi.
ma.   And hiri ov ae dizastur of B6ldrobin hi
turnd himself tu flai, but Dntk Qrman stud in
hiz paa; and hwen hi so aer woz nd eskdp, hi ol-
s6 aridi doun hiz hacet at re fit ov ae konkurur,
and ad bernd it aer. And ae sdij rz ov (e ti tr..
miz agen bikdm bruLaurz, and danst tugeaur binia
ae kin!z nn banur, intu ae tekscur ov hwic  e ndmr
ov Fridima had bin inw6vn.
And ae Dragun, hwen bi found aat B6ldrobin
and Stdnijon had fors6kn him, bit hiz forced and
lagt himself wir hiz til; and hiz atendants fled,
ainkin hi wud sting himself tu dea laik a skorpiun.
And hi disapird from hiz pales in ae nait, glaid-
ii of intu (1e wudz tu haid himself, and hi rfturnd
tu hdid hiz kdrt aer nd mdr. And ace kin went
doun tu si hwot had bikum ov him, and hi found
hiz pales emti. And hi egzamind Te dunjunz and
cenz and ae instruments ov torcur hwic ae grizli

iangagtha.               107
tairant had left bihaind him; and hi 6pnd ac
gdts ov fe Liburtipenz and lundurhouzez and hrot
out, ae kaptivz.
Nor woz Prins Jefur ta bi found at liz o
habits9un; for on ae d hwen B6ldrobin prizen-
ted himself tu Dfak Granit, hwic woz a h6li de, hi
herd ae taidilz az hi sat wurgipin in a Drago-
nian temp1, and hi rdz up hestili and fled. And
hi went swift11 t6rd ie suaurn si, hopin tu fair
som Bulian vesel in hwic tu mdk hiz eskep. But
hi woz hemd in bai ae s6ljurz ov ae kin aat wer
evuri hwer skourin ae kuntri. And hwen hi pur-
sivd ae kds hi woz in, and had kum tu oa end
ov hiz wits, and nl not hwot fertur t  u,  i
rszd wun last and pitius prer tu ae fiur ov  e
Blak Dragun ldz servant hi had bin; and   i od
disivur kompagundted him, and o'njd him intu a
wuman, and kiad hur wi( fimsl aparel, s6 at 91
mait not bi n6n. But hi neglekted tu rimnv hr
sandalz, hwic wer strop and servisabi, and hwick9
9t tu ritin. And wun morning az gi woz wo..ki
out wis hur miikpil upon hur arm, gi s at e
gras woz dni, and rdzin hur dres t kip it from
etin wet, hur sandalz wer diskuvuid bai sum
s6jurz at wer pasin at wd. And (e aprihen-
ded hur and bid hur konfes tu Qem hu 91 wo
And gi wud not ansur, but t6ld aem d t t1
bi a9d tu msk wor upon wimin. And ae s61-
jurz wud lisn tu n6 entritiz, but i spait ov hur
struglz karid hut of tu Qer ofisurz, bai h o
durz gi woz lojd in a prizn.


CAPTUR XVI

ae Dragdnian drmiz wer nou disban-
ded, and ae konflikt tu b outward apir.
akld,yet ae dfmunz stil lingrd tu
kari out aer findi9 malevolens, and wer di-
terinmd not tu yid az lon az aer woz a
sing instrument left tu dd aor bidi. And
Gaifoks, ae mdst krafti and derin ov aem
,entur  intua Rua aat woz nir a aiatur, not
far from  ae pales, and abr hi dd hiz planz for
ae kinz distruk9un. For hi had brt up wia him
from i ;naur planet an ard, hdz point had bin
pt in ae wotr ov dea, and its gaft woz wind
tia easfer ov sertenti. And hi sbt oportniti
konsulted  iagenst ac bod ov ae kil. And hl
stedwi      ai   aur emisariz or Prins Jefur,
at wer in Norland and Sndland, and adz aat
wer in Midiland, nir hto  croalei.     Adh
sil ektd     -    n   tu  royal siti-   And hi
tirekted foQ his kowurkurz .Pourfulpan  and H6s-
io, and Mrat and Caildharuld and Sekundr
d, and Mudpilz, and Lrfinf'nd. And Qirat in-
vaited acn naitli tu bankwet in a sp6gus kavurn
And a   kir z pales, hwbr  e Dragun WOz sikrited.
aer e konkokted helbroa and fed ae Drag
tn, and nurit hiz h                    e    r
bi  ops cat hi mait yethlirl

109

Magnus Mah'rba from hiz r6n and get pozegun
ov ae kindum.    And as mdd for aemseivz eks-
p16siv maginz and misilz ov dea, and 9drpnd a'-r
dagurz, and asaind to i aktur hiz pdrt In ae dra-
ma ad wer about tu pu4 orm. For as purpust tu
distroi ae kin and hiz lordz and Dnk Grani t bl at
ae sdm moment, s6 aat ad mait rug intu ae pales
amid ae konfijun and konsturndeun ov ae pip,
and fiks ae Dragon s6 furmli upon ae ur6n uat hi
kud not bi displdst.
And hwail ai enemiz ov ae kin wer plotin hiz
distrukgun, wun ov ae hevnli wocurz kdm tu him
in a vijun ov ao nait, and punted on hiz brin, az
hi woz slipin, a dizmal pikcur ov blud and hor-
urz; and hwenl hi aw6k ae pikeur woz stil kir
and distinkt. And in ae mornin hiz frendz kdI
tu vizit him, and ad so aat hiz fds woz psl, and
ac form  ov hiz vizej disturbd. And hi t6ld aem
hiz drfm, and hon hi had sin an 69un ov biud,
and himself swimin abrin.   And ae wocur aat
had pnted ae drim had hwispurd in hiz Ir aat ac
grdt drama woz tu kldz at ai end ov f6r yIrz
from ae taim it bigan ; and aat ai 69un ov blud
woz in rikwaital ov ae ronz .-dun tu a  IKuganz;
and aat for evuri drop dron bai ae lag aer must
bi anuaur dron bai ae sdrd; and hwotevur woz
wontin tu mdk ae rekompens perfekt must bi kan-
seld bai ae blud ov a kostli sakrifaiz. And ae
kinz advaizurz went out and konsulted tugeaur
raivetli, and sot tu understand ae drim, but ad
kud faind nun aat woz dbl tu divain ai interprete-

r I4
i
i       '+i
c l1
i
7
.
'ii
$, ri,
S /
',
tl
°ii i
i
'  F i
{
iii
'i it  1
i 'I,;

P
6
fl1Y


lit          lgrns R~hh.
9un.   Yet a dimd it cc hrja'
r6 pldst a stroll gird aroundareinjles hal  an
prikbgun, and anuaur   tu woe pal     i  wd eru
And ad kompnted rae taim    ov f' yf z  pro -
komensment ov ae wor, he        r  iz from ag
tdrn doun from  Stdnipail kas  and cr fouag wo
pfriud wud end on ce fortin  v     ae ound ae
hwie voz e     ov Gudsakrifaiz. And (sed, Let
us mik it a glad and joiful d, and a   d forLt 
selebrigun ov pis and vikturi, and fora d  fori
ov banurz, and for drdgunz r , and  formi ngun in
peradvencur ae 9ad' wil          ummegunz ; and
mind. And cd krdvd    i pas of from ac     un-
furl ai Old banur from  prmin ov    iitui kan
on ai aniversari ov its furstdio  Ad cri ki
woz plizd, and gdv komand t    h   r n    , an
on ce ivnin ov Gudsakrifaiz d'i wcry"rzpand
banur wuns mdr wivd dv"r cre     e    rparngoldv
and ae kanun p6rd f'ru c r je rmorekaso,.
And go dm  vnina aer joifiul salnt.
And r   rmwvnide rkiin woz sitin in a pIdhous,
hw c6hdpursweded hi"m to go crat hi mat;c
of ae burdn ov hiz kerz   Andg jut a car  t 96kr
ae ganz arond Stdn' A'  d Just az arr y
crce grdt arud GStnipail kasi prokldmd ce k1dzi1
ov cre gret dr" ima, (4aif' sks and i urr fnnzl
asisted him hdstd'-s"ndai vaTr dcim unzlhd
akisnd  sim  Asted tu perform cer pirts in ce kon-
hwb~sr  k  nhd cr6 rkept stelaili intu cre pldh oJus
nrcrckin    had en turd, and az  hiind fbrwurd.
unsuspektnl   u ozerv     aktin ov ce pldurz, ai-
a   ant o  pointed wcr dea and wid Wa ce fe--
acn  h  fe   ti struk- him inac bak ov hiz hed,
ndhftl u a for unkongus.   And Gaifbks

111

sprang p from  bihaind ae kin, flurigin hiz dagur
and goutin in ci frz ov b rae pipl aat hi had sldn
a tairant. And hi lipt upon e stj, and out at
c d6r, and woz gon. And acr sm our ov ae
nait Pourfulpdn enturd ae csmbur ov Lord Siwor-
dur, hd woz laiin on a sik bed, and hi sm6t him
and wud hav kild him, but ae silescal gardianz
ard ir gildz dvur him and worded of ae bl6z.
And ac kinz servants rimiivd him tu a praivet
crmbur and ldd him doun tu dai. And hiz lordz
and ar cat luvd him, and Fridima, stud around
hiz bed, and \voct him until are morning. And bi-
,koz hiz vaitaliti woz strop, ae kin lingurd in hiz
daiin, and ae bodi and spirit strgld in abr n-
klspin. And hwen ae sunlait lukt in at ae win-
d6, ae wiri arobi n sist; and ae kin. gv up hiz
g6st, and it bikCm disentangld from its atacments,
and fl6ted upward tu dwel wia ai imortalz. And
Fridima put hur lips tu ae kinz k1d, and kist hiz
k6ld fds, and gi sed, Alas, alas, rat aou gudst dai
for; mi! For if aou hadst not pitid ais sordful
caild, and. tskn hur pdrt hwen aer woz nun els
at kud dilivur hur, ou maitest stil hay livd,
pourful and onurd amun ne kinz ov ai era, and
mai pur ndm  wud hav perigt from   cre memuri
ov men. Andi i kuvurd hur fds, and p6rd for a
hur angwig in a torent ov tirz.
And a vois ov wdiin went up from    ae royal
siti, and it spred and inknist in volyum az it
r6ld 6vur are land. And b ae gg sitiz wer sud-
enli drdpt in ge wfdz ov m6rnin ; and ae sun

1tgituyai r 5tto


112

gr edark and ghmiz ; and ae wordurz ov e skai
street Qer kloudz ov k rep o11 r  iur  vci s
and west ; and a pbl woz spred- vura      m I snounten
tops and dvur ae loli vz, and  1 oe triz ovmounten.
est wer frinjd wia fanirial taslz; and men sp6 " not
for horur, arnd evri puls pbzd in its bitin az if
e krak ov ddm   had sounded from  a klr skai.
And hwen ae terur had abated a krai or ven
jans ardz on ai br, and ae Blak Drag    h    "erde'
in hiz haidin pies. And h' at wuns komprihen
ded aat Qer woz nd den s6 dirk, ns omprihenp
n6 mounten s6 hai, az tu giv him a kwaiet rest-
in pies on ce planet hwer hi hadkdunaist
S6 hi put on diirknes for hiz kuvurin     d
out ov hiz h61, and grikt a waild rik t sumun
dimunz aat gud akumpani him on hiz diprue
And hi rdzd up hiz lofti form, and spred h. pin-
yunz for ae h6m ov hiz farur; and ae m6ldpm'
oblivion setld on hiz winz az ae disaird b
cre aundurkloudz aat skurted biz dounwvrd we'.
And Samunkl sent out hunturz tu sere for e
men aat had enturtdnd ae dimunz, and had bin
abr instruments in ce murder ov re kin. And hwen
ed had kot aem, as hand (aem u    tu dai in vnc
sat oi a0 mrnin and angri hevnz. But ud kud
not kil crc di'munz aat had instigated (1iZ rece
for ad had gon out ov ae men andtabandund cez
tu cer fdt, az sun az as had n6 furar servisfor
cem tu perform.
Nou cer woz in a(at kuntri a masiv and lofti
kolum, on hwie it woz ce wunt ov Histdria tu

113

B
s,
.n-
.i
a
,U
i
1-
sue{
t,-
4-
3 Yr
Sf
I:
A;J
7
F
g11
F

rikord ae nemz ov dipdrted hirdz and stdtsmen,
and  l ae grdt and gud aat wer dizervi ov ri
membrans. It woz piramidal in form, and vast
in dimengunz, and ae kloudz rested on its sumit.
And after ae multitndz had riturnd from veii ae
kinz korps, ad gaaurd around ae monyument tu
witnes ai inskraibin ov hiz ndm.  And IHist6ria
tuk hur longest ladur, and set it up agent ae
said ov ae kolum, and (e woct hur az 91 asen-
ded; and Fridima klaimd up aftur hur tu si hwer
9i wud put ae0 nm ov hur fsvurit. And hwail
9 woz pasin dvur ae spot hwer ae ndmz wer
m6st aikli ritn, ae pipl gezd intently, ekspekti
evuri moment aat 9i wud stop and bigin. But 91
went on and on, until 9i had left ae vast kroud
ov stdtsmen and woryurz binia hur fit.  And9ci
past ae ion lain ov kinz, Kin Adam and Kim Jef-
ur, and Kin Andrd, and Kim Adam     ben Adam,
hd bifrended Fridima in hur caildhud, and Osami
ae mirtur, and  1 ae filanaropists and marturz aat
had givn abr laivz- tu ae welfer ov aer res.  And
hwen ae pipT's aat 91 still kept asendim, ae gev
a loud gout, for ad een undurstud aat it woz a grdt
and n6bl kin at had past awe' from  amun crem.
Nou aer woz ritn, flr up and distinkt from are rest,
just undur ae kloudz, a single ndm, in larj karakturz,
yet skersli vizibl for ae distans ; ce nem woz
PATER       PATRIAE.
And ac woct Histdria as 91 fikst hur ai upon ae
spot; and Fridima kl6sli fol6d hur.  And hwen
gi had riet ae plis, gi tuk from hur gurdi an ai-

,i cjn " 1


urn stail, and pdst hur hand on ae rok tu rait
just binia ae solitari ndm. And hwail ae multitnd
wer goutinp, and bifdr ac rok woz pfrst, Fridifma
sp6k and sed, Mai sister, dd yd rimembur ae f'r
milyunz ov liburdted Kuganz? And Histdria drop
hur aiz, and rimsnd for a rn6ment in ab, aen
stept upon ae nekst round, and pkdsin bur fingurz
just 6vur ai inent leturz, bigan  i gkrve r
.big an t             kr       ok
wia a klir bold strdk. And bl ae pipl wer amdzd
and konfounded, for it woz a fikst buffov of ae
men ov ai Oksident aat n6 neni kud ever bi ritn
abuv aat ov ae fiaur ov hiz kuntri.  But hwen
Historia wisdrd hur hand, and ad so ae nor ov
M AGNUS MAHARBA,
and nu aat it woz ritn for bl taim, in karakturz
enduring az al iternal hilz, aer mainds wer ilamin.-
eted, and ae so wia nu aiz, and abr goutinz wer
cejd tu tirz ov glad and wunduria imdgun, and
ae klaspt aer handz in prbr, and gdv aanks tu ace
God ov hevn aat hi had aloud iem t    Ink upon
oV's ov6 n6bl a kin and mrtur, ae dilivurur
nd svyur ov hiz kuntri.
And Samunkl and bl ae pip1 embdimd ae bodi
ov Kin Magnus Mahirba, and Id it in a tam;
and hiz memuri ae embaimd in aer afekgunz. And
ae nigunz ov ai Orient m6rnd and lamented him;
and ae Viktdrius kwin ov Bulia tact ae barp ofv
sord ; and a kbold him bai ae nim ov Mahirba
ae Gud. And Kin Andrd ae Sekund rand in hiz
sted.

INDEKS
Or Proper Nenz okovri    in   is Wvrc.

ADAM I., sekund kin ov ae
Oksident, psj 113.
Adam ben Adam, sun ovae
former, 17, 113.
Ailandbmi, a provins, 73.
Aligitur mountenz, 69.
Andrkia, a malevolent jfn..
yus, I- .
Andi I., sev3a k n ov Ge
Qksident, 113.
Andre II., sevntina kin usk-
s;dz Magnus Mahirba, 114.
Ant iturz krik, batl ov, 60.
Arabi, an oriental kuntri, 72.
Ajur klifs, s6 kbld from aer
skaii ha, 69.
Arkinjel, a swompi proving
or ae Faaurwotur, 73.
Baisntoun, a p14s femus for
bufal6z,'97.
BIrbarus 96r, ae noraurnkdst
ov Kn a, 75.
Berlin k, fel at Calenjurz-
vi,84.
11up1k, D  nian dlik and
soldloktur, 103.\
BIevztoun, a liturari s ti, from
Bos, ae klasik rut ov Bo-
vis, 45.
Black Dragun, hiz orijin, 6;
krosez GaeStormi oun, 8;
persi:ftts Frldima, 17
mdks wor on ae -kin~, 37;
aplaiz tvuoiz fduur for'help,
92;asinks tu oblivion, 112.

Bkerintrrmp, lord ov ae naz-
kariurz, 60.
Bludisikl, dfk, a bludi ripur
at Deasburg; hiz proves at
Calenjurzvil, 83.
Botlh6ldur, dak, hiz rigur, 46.
Boundaritmrk rivur, separe-
tin Midiland from Vuijin-
land, 41.
B6ldrobin, Drag6nian  duk,
invddz Norland twais, 59,
86 ; yildz tu Granit, 106.
BrSkinbrij, veri unsif; brdk
doun under ae tred ov
Horntosur, 101.
Bruaursiti, kapital ov Pen-
wud, 45.
Bultaitur, an oriental monark,
yen 6jed, 53.
Bulia, an ailand ov Nora, 97.
Bulskampur, a smblstrim nd-
ted for speturz, 41.
Bic, pozest bai ae spirit ov
Gaifoks, 108.
Burning dk, hiz proves, 84.
Burninbrand, dok, brz Ge
torch ov won akros ac stou
brij, 61; ataks ae fain
wol, 68.
Caildharu ld,wia Gaif bks, 108.
Calenjurzvil, gr&amp;dt batltild, 83.
Cikenniokin bruk, 101.
Cikenominsrivur, 102.
Curztoun, a 9varus sit
meni serpents aer,101.

114                     t              I'n i r1J


18

on ze Twns, 100.
a trait rivur and
nin a pasej for ae
anz tu invid Nora

land, 59.
C rpsik1, dik, a Tiatonik ri
pur, hiz wepn pur stil, 58
Cfrat, fisted (e dimunz. 108
kdt and hut. 112: Yunra
eskept.
Qise,, a vaipuri traib ov fern-
mmi daiabolianz, 46*.
Qirmanduk, uts a swoa
ard Gorjusland, 103.

Daiab6lianz, risiv ger inspir
egun from ae Red Dragun
ae hand ov a toi daiabdii
an anoints Kin -Magnus, 35
Dedmanzvil, horurs ov, 95.
Demigod    lonivianz  o01
mikst blud, 11.
fen 6krianz, an ekstensiv
traih, 31.
Dearsbung, batl ov, 86.
Deastrand, or Nastrond, 94.
Deastrim, a poizn bruk at
Dedmanzvil, 95.
Dim6nianz, men pozest bal
dimunz, 97.
Dimunz, a h61 lijun kdm up
at wuns, 93.
Dipwotur, lord, drinks from
Ge welsprinz, 46.
Daninsun, a strop6kasl, 79.
Doziembur muna, ae last ov
ae yir, 70.
Dragonianz, frenclz ov ae
Dragun, '31.
Dragun, fsaur and sun, si Red
and Blak Dragun.
Dulgrin, ndval dik, suksesur
ov Daipomp, 101.
Dditwel, dak, did not dd az
wel az woz ekspekted, 41.
alpomp, neval dik, 83.

gIundurhous, den at Ricman
toun, 95.
lErlistrt, Drag6nian cak, 87.
$gaick, haiest and hwaitest
mounten dvurlukin Ge Stor-.
mi si, 75.

t Fsaurwotur, rivur and prov-
ins, 76; koruptli ritn Mrs.,
az if it ever feminin
Febrif j muna, gud agent ff-
vurz, 82.
Ferigift. nival dak, 77,
Firful rivur, 106.
. Fivuropolis, a sikli siti at ae
moua ov ae Fsaurwotur 46
Flaiinff. a grdt robur, mid a
lord bai Publik Funk una.
ri, 79.
Flitcerif, dik, a frius raider
and galant faitrjr, 106.
Flouigdz,a marci peninga-
la in Sunland, 73.
Flouriland, or silescal empair,
a kuntri in ue f&amp;r Orient, 75.
Folnnoua, nir ae Rapidnok-.
in, 85.
Frankman, dak, 70.
Fridima, ov silescal pirentej,
12; per ikted bai ae Dra-
gun, 17; faindz Osanmi, 23;
ei kisez ae kin, 74; hedz ae
ariimi,102 ; biwilz  e kinz
deg, 111.
Friddnianz, 18, 31.
Friga, an oneent godes, 12.
Frim antl, diak, ae grdt pac
opnur, atemts to kil ac Dra-
gun wiaout ordurz, 44.

Gaifoks, an   old  ieprob6t,
kuniz bak tu era wiG an in-
fernal ard, 93, 108.
Galia, a worlaik kindum in
Nora, 97.

G dt munaH, 6pnz 6nli for ae
ni 'yir, 72.
Gtsiti, 'Curman 6pnz it, 104.
Gorjusland, hlosumz at ae ap-
rdc ov Fridima, 104.
G6iam, a Bsbelaitic siti, 39.
Granit, dtk, uncinz ae Fa-
'urwotur, 80; tiks Wiked-
burg, 91; konkurz B6ld-
robin, 106.
Granit spur, nir Deasburg, 87.
Grdtbrag, Dragonman dlik, 32;
rutG trled bai a ukur, 100.
Grdt Bisin ov ae Miksinkan,
34,77.
Grdt Orient, isturn said ov ae
planet, inkladz Nora and
Kura, 7.
Grnfi, or Simunfie, lord
trejurur, mc'ks a nu sort ov
mnuli, 45.
Grfnhilz, noraurn proving, 97.
Gudsaklifaiz dd, ae sikred
Fraide, 110.d
Gudsimur, but not a gud
dour, 94.

Hcet bruk, beriin ae tome-
hb  aler 105.
Iaiawdz,  an   enturpraizii
traib ov -noraurlurz, 77.
Hailand, a Dragoniaal woryur
from  e hilz, 89.
Halurwotur, a rivur divaid.,
Norland and Sunland, 78.
Htrdihud, dak ov Jefur, 104.
Hidrpurz valid, a krosia on ae
Boundarimsrk rivur, 59.,
Hela, kwin oF ae l6ur ri-.
junz, 94.
Hnelamnhur h6m, 94.
Jlencman, c~Ifk, 58.
HEstiroa, pozest ov a dimun,
108.
Hilanoiurz, ae traib tu hwic
Kin Magnus bilod, 77.

His t6ria, kips ae rekurd ov 'ie
djez, 113.
Hi;ee, sne'ki ndcurz, a veri
ekstensiv traib, 46.
forntosur, dak, lks atsae
Dragonianz, 60, 83, 100.
Huniwotur, duak. diits B6ld-
robi a at De asburg, 86.
Wait, devipricur, wdlid and
kild Osanius sun, 27.
Hwaitnd top, haiest pik on
'Ai isturn kost, 75.
Ijipt, a dark rjun in Norland,
78.
lkwoliti, an oriental prins,
kept for ae m6st part in
strikt konfainment, 85.
Iradikdturz,  aer  strongest
Garisun woz stigund     in
BIvztoun,31.

Jefur, aurd lain ov ae Yunait-
ed Oksident, 113.      ,
Jefur,0prins, GODrag6nian ii-
dun, 32; cinjd tu a wun-
an, 107.
Jddas, Drag6nian lord, mem-
bur ov an old fanilh, bitrid
hiz kuntri for silvur, 32.
Julius, muna ov, 13.
Kapital siti, a grdt woein pl6s
for klenzit ae naeunal gar--
m ents, 5 7.
1inmor, dir, 101.
K161k6bra, a dimnian, 97.
Konservaturz, 31.
Korinaian kolunz, 80.
Koroneeun dd, 13.
K6braz, huded serpents, frur
in apirans than ratlsndks,
but ikwali dan urus, 94
Kristofur, a grit navigetur, 7,
Kumbuiground rivur, 78.
Kuga, ae suaurn kworter oa
ae planet, 7.

.i
L
t,
a
u.
F
.7
t',1Sy
Ry(
S
p

-r
3.


120

L.Ingap, an 6 pin in cai Ai
nmuntenz, fir Laifurzvil, 8
Libertipen, a l6asum dunju
at Ricmantoun, 95.
Lank6bra, 97.
Lo stepiDrag6nian diak, 5
Luu~6vur mounten, 6vtrrha;'
Le (addinidk, 100..
Liiland, 7W.
Magnus Maharba, sikstin
kin ov (re Yunaited Oksi
dent ;  oultRbz re Blal
Dragun, 73; iz mrturd
11(1.
Marein munar 82.
enmunr, ae muna        o'r
lourz, 83.
Midland, a provins laiin on
(re Boundari r rk, 60.
.ikimakl, dfk, marces t6rdz
Riemantoun, 47; faits ae
batil ov Antiturz krik, 60.
Miksinkan, a grit kuntri ov
mikst rdsez soua ov Sun-
land, 77.
Miligagunurz, pipi ov Miliga-
gun, 77.
Milkipenz, a kampig ground,
81.
Minis iturz, a traib ov hunt-
urz, 77.
Monarkia, an oriental lonjiv-
ian, 11.
Mudpilz, a dim6nian doktor,
108.
Muaurzbur6, 69.
Mumifds, on ae Fdaurwotor,
77.
Munimungur, kipur ovfae
Draguuz g6ldcest, 32.
Mainz de, 80.
Naiagoni, a terik katarakt
on are bordurA ov Sndland,
99.

-u- Naitoud, a ftrlus Drag6nian,
6G.  armdl az a nait, 1c:0.
n  Ndstrond, rein ov He'a, 94,
Nevirnaladi, kolm9unur ov
pairat tips, 32.
9. Nora, orijinal haiv ov cre Nor-
1z    men, 7.
Norland, a kuntri setid bat a
koloni ov  pilgrirnz from
Nora, 21.
a Nora Karolurz, 73.
SOksident, crc gret westura
kwortur ov cr planet, 7.
Osarni, harburz Fridlima, 23;
iz sten, 29; riapirz at Deas-
burg, 90.
Ofur, te g6ldn 96r ov ai 6ri..
ent, 75.
Oknrij, or kiasik mountenz,
ontie west ov Deasburg, 87.
Opm'il muna, unbaindin ov
tie strinz, 110
drient, isturn kwortur ov ca
planet, 7.
Pain hilz, 103.
Painz and Oks, sevnv ic, 49.
Pan, spektur, fraitnz ae Nor-
men, 42.
Paler Patriae, fiaur ov hiz
kuntri, hiz fdrn riccz tu ae
kloudz, 113.
Penwud, a larj forest in Nor..
land, 86.
Pepurkorn, Drag6nian dak,
82, 91.
P116, duk, fled bai nait win
Flainaif, 79.
Pisful si, west oV cre Oksi-
dent, 75.
Pontif, duk, 57.
Pourfnlp6n, ataks Lord Si-
wordur in biz bed, 111.
Pretigiird, Drag6nian  dik,
32, 37.

}
r'
5 _i
a
,,.
:.;

(
121

Fub ikaiz, an ekstensiv traib  S
cv.Nprinen1, 31.
Publik ~ Fkgnari, fiftina
Raitfut, a grdt n aval koman-
dur, 78
Rapidnokin rivur, 58R     i-
Rapiaron, soua ov ae IRapid-
flokin, 102.c
Ratisiels0, giv wornim hif6r
ad straik, hwic ae K6braz
dui not, 34.
Rickrg6, meni gips' kdrg6
-  u 16dn  a r,  97.
Ricmantoun, a ric siti, hed
kworturz ov ae Dragun,
47, 95.
Rokrkest, or western moun-1
tenz, 75.
Rotnwud, guvurnur ov Go-
aam, 40.
Roundabout bdyu, 82.
Round top, sona ov Sepul-
kur hi, 87.^
R6zikrouln, duk, faits at Mcc..
urzburd, 69.
Rufwind, fonndur ov Ded-
manzvl1, 95.
Salient cure, bati nir it, 80.
Samunkl, a pourful jaiant and
extensive landholdur, 12 ;
lust nz hiz kini, 38;, bik~umz
an Iraciketor, 51; embimz
ae kinz bodi, 114.
Sandadur, a serpent ov ere
wrst kaind, 97.
Savanaz, on a eor ov Gorjus-
land, 104.
Sekundirnuld, pozest ov ace
senm spirit az Benedikt,r108.
Sepulkur, a Drag6man lord,
32.
Sepulkur hil, nir Deasburg,
86.

iwordur, lord, a waiz man
55; ase1d bal cae dfmul z,
111.
)mdabakS, dik, 83.
ndland, noraurn sekun ofv
cie Grit Oksideflt, 21.
Soua Karolurz, a pivS, 73.
Spotwfldz, gret bati ov, 102.
Starnpon, lord, rmi skraib,
60.
Stedirm, Drag6ian dik, 89.
Storm oun, or isttnf, 8,
Stonifork rivur, 70.
Stunijak, bravest ov cie kav-
alirz, 59 ; hiz dea, 84.
St-nijol, yildz tu gCrman,
106.
St inan, duk, 83, 84.
St6mpail kasl, blt ov roks
kast intu ae si, nir Curlz-
toun, 37.
Strounir, dnk 68
Sutrn, mounted in Midliand,
a grntbai aar, 60.
Sumunr, dk, 61.b      r
Sunland, kolonaizd bai Dra-
gSnianz 9.
Sunz de, ae sekred de, 79.
Swainsiti, a gret pkds for kil-
in hogz, 97
Swi~ipeld~lLltf, a ko'bra, 97.
Taimseritur, won ov ae waiz
man ov G6aam, 39.
Teusin, a provins, 73.
TikumSi, old cif'ten, riturnz
t1 help Q rman, 78.
Tiran, a ripulsiv, dvurbarin
lonjivian, 11.
T~fet, ae neaur planet, 25, 92.
TribanosofUr, a waiz man ov
G6aam, 39 ; prop6zez a g6ld
brij for ae Dragun, 97; iz
entaist intu Sndland, but
eskeps, 98.


Twinsi, a trim and provins Wikedburg, tc'kn bai Granit
in Sunland, 76.            on koroneun de, 91.
Wddenz d, f6ra de ov ae
Vandalliamur, c6zn cif ov ae  wik, 60.
K6braz, 97.              Wurstovol, doktur, hiz med-
Viktd6rius kwin  ov  Bulia,  isinz wars aan dea, 96.
m6rnz for Magnus Mahar- Wulvz' mounten, 87.

ba, 114.
Vurjinland, 61d dominyun ov
ae Drag6nianz, 41.
Waildwudz, bat1 ov, 102.
Waizkounselurz, a larj traib
in ae norawest, 77.

Yelwel, Drag6nian dak, 68,
105.
Yulisez, neent woryur, 78.
Yunaited Oksident, ae prin-
sipal kindum ov ae western
ailand, 34, 73.

P. 6 1. 3 respektivli for rispektivli
9 14 kindums for kindumz
17   1 haf for hdf
20   1 hwich for hwic
21 14 mountinz for mountenz
40   3  harangd for harand
44 11 sun for sun
56   3 ospieuz for ospigus
61 6 artileri for grtiluri
62  11  afars for aferz
87 19 encent for ingent
118   7 pir for pr

122

x
k
I
.1

Unlks


                                                                                                                         
            
         
      
   
