
    ----CITATION----
        Bowen, Sue Petigru, (1824-1875). Sylvia's World ; Crimes Which the Law Does Not Reach .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5849 wright2-0326
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               SYLVIA'S WORLD.
               CRIMES WHICH THE LAW DOES NOT REACH.
            
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "BUSY MOMENTS OF AN IDLE WOMAN," "LILY," ETC.
            
               NEW YORK:
               DERBY & JACKSON, 119 NASSAU STREET.
            
            1859.
         
         
         
            
               ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1859, by DERBY & JACKSON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
               W. H. TINSON, Stereotyper.
               GEO. RUSSELL & Co., Printers.
            
         
         
            To J. J. E. WITH THE MEMORY OF OUR LONG AND UNCLOUDED FRIENDSHIP.
         
      
      
         
            Sylvia's world ; Crimes which the law does not reach
            
            
               
                  
                     ——"The history of a weak woman's heart! But is not that heart a world to its possessor? Does not some writer say, 'That little world, a woman's heart?' And after all, can there be, is there any history more interesting than a history of the affections? Could the coldest person be offered the secret details of the life, the loves, the faults, the sorrows, the cares, the hopes, the sentiments of even an indifferent acquaintance, would he not read it in preference to a history of either Roman or Grecian worthies?"
                  
                  MRS. OPIE'S "MADELINE."
               
            
            
               
                  
                     "Ne me lisez point, génération d'heureux, qui allez parcourir une carrière embellie par les prestiges de la fortune; entourez votre existence de tableaux riants et gracieux. J'ai vogué sur une mer infidèle et je n'ai vu que des écueils."
                  
                  CH. NODIER.
               
            
            
               SYLVIA'S WORLD.
               HOW it did rain! Not a fine, thin, winter drizzle; but a great splashing, sounding, unceasing pour. The grass, in the misty light, lay dark and bruised; the rose-trees trembled, and shook off the heavy drops; little streams formed themselves at the sides of the gravel-walks, and ran along like tiny rivers; and, as a woman came and leaned against the window panes, the wind blew a fitful gust, dashed the water upon the glass, and dimmed her view still more. It was a dreary sight. There should have been a full December moon; but the grey, dingy clouds veiled the entire heavens, and you only guessed how bright it might have been, from the opaque light that showed the landscape so indistinctly.
               How beautiful the scene, had the moon fulfilled what the almanac promised! The veranda, with its vine-draped pillars, the subdued tone of the cottage itself (built of brown-stone), the nicely-kept, well-filled garden which surrounded it, and the still, calm, well-bred repose which characterized the whole place. Then, as the moon won her radiant way up the blue skies, I am sure the mistress of this pretty mansion would have sat at least for five minutes upon the upper step of the veranda, resting her chin upon her bended wrist, in that attitude of listless thought, habitual to her. Moonlight, roses, a pensive woman, there is a picture, none the less attractive because we all may see it, and have seen it, and hope to see it again, a thousand times.
               Now, she only mused beside the closed casement and watched the rain as it fell, with a wearied, indifferent gaze.
               "Any hope, Sylvia?"
               "None, dear."
               "Must we give it up?"
               "Yes."
               "How very provoking! Of all evenings of this season—of all nights of the year, to rain in this way! To have had day after day of sunshine, night after night of beautiful weather, and then!——oh! how very provoking!"
               The speaker came to the window too. She formed a striking contrast to Sylvia. She was all impetuosity and sparkling grace: pretty, vivacious, smiling (except that she was frowning now), restless, hopeful.
               Sylvia put her full white arm around the young lady's waist, and laid the impatient head upon her soft, snowy shoulder.
               "Take care, my love, you will crush my flowers; but what does that matter now—we must give up the ball—so "take me, Clifford," and back went the chestnut curls to their sweet resting-place.
               At the trite quotation, Sylvia started slightly, but she smoothed the rosy cheek caressingly and smiled as she asked,
               "Are you very, very much disappointed, Olivia?"
               "Of course I am. Is not that a question to ask! Really, extremes do meet. When you wish a positively stupid remark, seek it from a clever woman. Disappointed! would I not have been the belle of this ball? Is not Ralph Wilmot to be there? Doesn't he dance like a French angel? Is not Mary Parker, whom I detest, frantic to attract him, and would he look at her, if I looked at him? Would I not have eclipsed the whole room, and is not my dress perfect? Disappointed, indeed!"
               "What admirable reasons!"
               "Oh, sneer if you choose, Mrs. George Augustus Sutherland. Because you are married, and 'a superior woman,' and never cared for any man on earth, and are worshipped at a distance like the Grand Lama, you presume du haut de votre grandeur to look down upon such petty triumphs and fancies. And with a husband who adores you, you can afford to despise all the world except your own, as you call this poor, pretty, rain bedraggled possession."
               Sylvia Sutherland removed the pettish little head from her shoulder, as gently as she had placed it there, and two large tears were dropping from her grave eyes, as she turned away.
               "Forgive me, darling!" cried Olivia, springing toward her friend; "have I said anything to wound you, Sylvia? Forgive me, pray."
               "It is nothing, nothing now, my dear. I am sorry, too, that you should be debarred from an entertainment which no doubt would have been very pleasant to you. I am too old now—that is what ails me."
               "Too old! You are barely thirty. You are so much admired, so much sought after. When I said that I would have been the belle of the room, I meant only the single belle—you are the full chime, and ring me into insignificance, whenever you deign to let yourself out."
               "Thank you, pretty flatterer."
               "Why are you so indifferent, Sylvia? You look upon all men and women with such ill-concealed scorn, sometimes; you receive a compliment or an attention with freezing nonchalance; your beautiful eyes pass over the countenance of your acquaintance with neither smile nor frown. You are gentle and kind to me, often affectionate, but I see you so to no one else."
               A deep shade settled far in the depths of these glorious eyes.
               "I have no faith, no belief left, Olivia. Compliments and attentions give me no pleasure, because they convey no truth to my mind. I go into a ball-room; I receive in my own house—I pay visits—I am surrounded on these occasions by perhaps dozens of people who may make me dozens of pretty speeches, but I am perfectly aware, as some woman said before my time, and as some woman may say after me, that 'were it the fashion to burn me, and I at the stake, I don't know ten of my friends who would refuse to throw on a fagot.'"
               "Oh, Sylvia!"
               "Yes, Olivia! There was a time, little one, when my foolish heart yearned for almost universal sympathy. I liked everybody, I believed in everybody. The veriest simpleton could have gulled me. I wished to be popular, I wished to be loved. Where I felt deeply, I exacted deep feeling in return. I lavished my affection. I frittered it away. I had neither tact nor discernment. At one moment I gave a child-like faith, and then if deceived, I was morbidly sensitive, and doubting; but still I went on, sometimes wounded, sometimes having the blood stanched and the scar healed over, by the wine and oil of fancied sympathy. Then, one day, came the reaction, and from the ashes of my buried hopes, from the wreck of all in which I believed, to which I clung, arose the woman, that you see—cold, calm, scornful, cynical, wretched—no, not wretched—that belonged to my former state; for if, when I had a heart, it sometimes beat with deceitful happiness, it oftener paid for that short throb of bliss, with hours of crushing misery. To the death-like calm in which I pass my days, come no joys; but no biting sorrow racks me."
               "But even if compliments and attentions are not offered from just the motive that would seem to prompt them," said Olivia, timidly, after a pause, "at least they prove one's power; and if sincerity were to be the ruling spirit of society, we might as well live in that very uncomfortable Palace of Truth."
               "There is much sense in what you say, and it would be alike disagreeable and absurd for one to run about the world crying out, 'Now, tell me honestly what you think of me;' but believe me, Olivia, that when the lessons of kindred, friends and the world teach you that such as you hoped to find them, they are not, retire within your shell, smother your own feelings, live within yourself, and you will be in the end, more pleasing to them and to yourself. I am more popular as I now am, 'the stately Sutherland,' as your admirer Ralph Wilmot calls me, than when I——. There is another rule of action I might have pursued; perhaps without intending it, it is the one I do pursue. 'Use people like sucked oranges,' said a person once to me, 'it is my way. Squeeze them dry, so long as they are juicy and pleasant, and fling them aside when they are exhausted. You may soil your fingers with the peel, or your lips may smart with the essential oil, but no matter, don't notice it, till you have extracted the last drop.' I remember saying, indignantly, 'I would rather be the squeezed orange myself.' I know better now."
               "I wish the 'person' who uttered that sentiment had found them all bitter oranges."
               "She did not, my dear. I think she was popular, and found a great many oranges."
               "I think she must have been horrid. How it does rain! Tell me, Sylvia, what shall we do to pass this tiresome evening?"
               "Just what we did last evening—chat, drink tea, sing a little, read aloud a little, and go to bed peacefully and calmly," answered Mrs. Sutherland with a slight smile.
               "Pooh!" and Olivia shrugged her shoulders and made a grimace of discontent. She paced the drawing-room with capricious motions, now marching like a tragedy queen, now taking mincing steps; twice she paused before the mirror, and settled her wreath, and spread out her light, white skirts, and smoothed her rippling hair. Then, she turned to the piano and struck a few bars, skipping from note to note like a bird upon its perch, or humming all the most lugubrious airs, that seemed best suited to her frame of mind.
               Meanwhile Sylvia stayed at the window, and the night darkened a little, and then came a low, distant peal of thunder.
               Olivia started up.
               "I can't stand that."
               She rang for lights, and the servant lit the astral lamp, and the cheerful glow within the room soon put to flight the sombre fancies of the gay girl.
               She drew out a pile of letters from the vase on the mantel-piece, where she had hidden them, and began to read extracts and to jest about the writers, and to talk scornfully of the bal manqué.
               
               "After all, Sylvia, love, we are very comfortable here. This is a pretty house, to be sure. I like the chintz of your curtains and coverings vastly, for the country. You are snug, and not snobbish. Then you are in the country and yet not solitary. That is a great thing. Oh, what a flash of lightning! Sylvia, pray come from that window. Sylvia!"
               "Well?"
               Mrs. Sutherland did not move, and Olivia drew her round with gentle force. The tears were dried; but the gloom remained.
               "You are maussade," said Olivia. "Dearest, if my efforts to be gay displease you, or jar upon your feelings, just say so. I thought it was praiseworthy and proper to enliven your sadness; but I should far prefer sympathizing with you, if sympathy you need or desire."
               "You are a good child. I cannot shake off the dark shadow to-night. This heavy rain, which comes beating down with resistless force, this thunder-charged atmosphere, this gloomy 'war of elements,' awaken thoughts and recollections which sweep over me, oppress me, and will have their sway. I cannot command them. I am weak tonight."
               Olivia silently pressed her hand; Sylvia suddenly turned and fixed a searching look upon her. Her lips partly opened, as if about to speak; she hesitated, and then said abruptly:
               "This day is an anniversary"—
               The noiseless tread of the butler, as he opened the door and prepared the tea-table, broke off the sentence.
               The grand-looking hostess poured out the tea and served her pretty guest with calm gravity.
               What weight there is in these domestic details! How many a face, a moment before bathed in tears, has looked up with composure when a footman respectfully presented a note or message; and how many a voice, choked with emotion, has struggled into calmness under the same important coercion. A woman is not an actress because she exhibits these transitions. What her own will, her own wish, could not accomplish, the dread of ridicule or vulgar curiosity would render possible.
               While the servant remained in the room, their conversation was on indifferent topics; but no sooner had the silver kettle been carried off and the cosy little tea-board returned to its former position, than Olivia threw herself on the sofa by her friend, and softly asked (quoting)—
               "This day is an anniversary?"
               
               "Are you discreet, Olivia?"
               "I do not know. I have never been tried."
               "Did you ever keep a secret?"
               "I never had one that was worth keeping. I profoundly despise 'baby dismals' and 'mysterious trifles,' crying over all sorts of stuff, which I class as one of Miss Edgeworth's heroines did, under the title of 'Sorrows of my Lord Plumcake,' and having tremendous confidences with some empty-headed simpleton, whose time as well as yours could not be worse employed. But tell me a sorrow which deserves the name, and which should not be lightly spoken of, and I shall feel the sympathy I may not be able to express, and keep it sacred as my honor."
               "Well spoken," said Sylvia; "and if I should offer to tell you a story which you must never repeat, do you think that it will prove to be from the répertoire of 'my Lord Plumcake,' and treat it accordingly?"
               "I do not and I shall not."
               Mrs. Sutherland mused for a moment, and then reaching out her hand, drew toward her a desk of marqueterie, each of whose enamelled pictures was a gem.
               She pressed upon a spring beneath the lowest medallion, and there appeared a key-hole. On her chatelaine was a tiny key—the drawer flew open, and there lay a manuscript closely written.
               Olivia's eyes sparkled.
               Sylvia sighed heavily, as she slowly turned over several leaves. Her companion asked no questions, except with her eager look.
               "This is my writing, dear. There is no attempt at authorship; that is—I 'tell the tale' just as is easiest for me. It concerns one whom I knew very well. The names are changed, lest, by accident, these pages should fall into other hands, and you will not be less interested because she of whom I write as 'Helen' never answered to that name. It was a dreary pleasure I took in transcribing these pages."
               "Do I know Helen?"
               "I think not."
               "She is alive?"
               "After a fashion."
               "I am so much obliged to you. I am all impatience. And this is the anniversary,"—
               "Of the saddest events in a simple life-drama which I shall call—
               
                  
                  "THE HEART HISTORY OF A HEARTLESS WOMAN."
                  There was not a more beautiful avenue of trees in all the world than that which led to the front entrance of Oaklevel. They were very old—they met overhead and enlaced themselves with wreaths of moss: the sunlight came flickering through the branches and fell stealthily and tremblingly upon the clean, smooth ground. Little heaps of dead leaves lay here and there, scattered by each breath of the December breeze, and forming their tiny mounds in fresh places, as the wind trundled them along.
                  On a fine, bright morning, some years since, two persons were slowly pacing up and down this grand, majestic walk. They were both young and both were handsome. She was blonde, and he a dark, grave-looking man.
                  "Nelly, I don't like flirts."
                  "Yes you do—you like me, don't you?"
                  "I don't like your flirting."
                  "What do you call flirting? If I am to be serious and answer your questions, and admit your reproofs and heed them—pray begin by answering me a little. Where and when do I flirt?"
                  "Everywhere and at all times."
                  "Be more particular, if you please. Name, sir, name."
                  "I am not jesting, Nelly. Yesterday, at that pic-nic, you talked in a whisper to John Ford, you wore Ned Lawrens' flowers stuck in your belt-ribbon, you danced two waltzes with that idiot Percy Forest, and you sat for a full hour tête-à-tête with Walter James, and then rode home with him. I wish he had broken his neck,——him!" and a low muttered curse ended the catalogue.
                  "If he had broken his neck, very probably he would have cracked mine, so thank you; and please, Harry, don't swear. It is such an ungentlemanly habit, I wonder that you should have it. And now for the list of my errors and crimes. The mysterious whisper to John Ford was to ask him if he would not invite Miss Ellis to dance; I had noticed that no one had yet done so. You gave me no flowers, although your sister's garden is full of them this week, so I very naturally wore Ned Lawrens' galanterie in the shape of half-a-dozen rose-buds. Percy Forest may be a goose, but he waltzes, certainly, with clever feet. One of those waltzes I had offered early in the day to you, and you said that you preferred a polka. Walter James is an old friend of mine, and for the matter of that, of yours too. We talked very soberly—I think that his most desperate speech was the original discovery that I have pretty blonde ringlets, and when he falls in love it shall be with a woman who has curls like mine. You best know whether papa allows me to drive with you, since our accident—my choice lay between a stuffy, stupid carriage, full of dull people, and a nice breezy drive in an open wagon with a good, jolly creature like Walter, whom you and I know to be, despite his compliments to my Eve-like coloring, éperdument amoureux of Mary Turner's dark beauty. Now, Harry, have not you been unreasonable?"
                  "How can I help being so, Nelly darling, when I am kept in this state of misery," answered Harry, whose frowning brow had gradually smoothed itself into a more placable expression. "What man on earth could patiently endure seeing the woman he adores free to be sought by every one—feeling himself bound to her body and soul, and yet not be able to claim her in the slightest way—made to pass his life in solitary wretchedness because an old lady and gentleman are too selfish"——
                  "Hush, hush, Harry; you are forgetting. I am very young; papa and mamma think me too young to bind myself by any engagement."
                  "It is not that. They choose to keep you as long as they can, moldering with themselves in this old house."
                  "Harry!"
                  "Or else, it is I whom they dislike and refuse to receive as a son. Too young? why, you are nineteen. It is an infamous shame."
                  "I will not speak to you, if you go on in this way. You know just as well as I do, what their reasons are. My poor sister Emily made a love match at eighteen, and died, broken-hearted, at twenty-three. Her husband was a violent, jealous man who gave her neither peace nor valuable affection. He looked upon her as a pretty toy, petted her, and was raging if a gentleman spoke more than ten words by her side, so long as her beauty and novelty lasted. Her health failed, her delicate loveliness departed, and with these went his worthless passion. I was a mere child then—the last living blossom of a long garland of household flowers—when my father laid his beloved Emily in her early grave. I stood by his great chair, that sad evening, in my little black gown, when he returned from the funeral, and he placed his hands upon my head, and made a vow that never, with his consent, should his only remaining darling follow in the steps of the lost one. 'No man shall have her who has not proved himself worthy to win her. As Jacob served Laban shall her future husband serve for her, if it pleases God that she live, and that she have suitors.' Day by day, year by year, he has but strengthened himself in this determination, and when, last spring, you applied to him for my hand, he told you frankly that if you had patience to wait, and were convinced of the strength of our mutual attachment, on my twenty-third birthday, you might claim a Mrs. Harry Trevor from his fireside."
                  "But, Nelly, four years to wait!—and all because poor Mrs. Vernon had weak lungs—forgive me, dearest—Helen,—dearest Helen." But Helen walked on and away from him with proper indignation.
                  With impatient strides, he passed her, just as they reached the lawn which bordered the avenue and surrounded the house. Extending his arms to bar her passage,
                  "Listen to me, my own dear Nelly," he pleaded. "I was wrong to say that, but you cannot understand stand, my angel, how furious and intractable I become when I think of those four years, those forty-eight months, those incalculable days between this time and the blessed moment when I shall be sure of you."
                  "If you are not sure of me now, you do not fancy that you will be any more so then, do you?" asked Helen, gravely; but she permitted him to lead her away from the stone steps that she was about mounting, and back to the quiet alley under the old oaks.
                  He drew her arm through his, gently stroking her gloved hand as it rested in his own.
                  "If there is no truth and belief between us today, there will be none then," Helen pursued. "I am, in the sight of Heaven, by my own free will and wish, your affianced wife. All the priests on earth would not make me more so, in spirit, than I am now. But I respect my father's wishes and feelings—and you must do so too," she added, lifting her eyes with such a lovely look of tenderness, that Harry, as he pressed the hand with renewed fervor, murmured a blessing in quite a different tone from the one which he had devoted to the now forgotten Walter James.
                  
                  He glanced around, and was about to seal his happiness upon the dainty, pink lips, smiling so sweetly and confidingly, but Helen, blushing and laughing, said:
                  "Take care, papa is reading yesterday's paper at the left hand window of the dining-room, and I think if one eye is deciding upon the political crisis, the other is directed this way."
                  "We are watched, then!" exclaimed Trevor passionately, all his short-lived good humor again flown. "This is worse and worse."
                  Helen looked at her lover, with a calm, searching expression in her blue eyes: "Perhaps, papa is right. He has a terror of violent men, and he may like to see if you are always as mild as he sees you in his presence."
                  Trevor bit his lip and stamped his foot impatiently. Helen hummed a tune and settled her belt ribbon with one hand, while she played the notes she was murmuring on the young gentleman's coat sleeve with the other.
                  He let the mischievous fingers slide through his arm, and "thought it was going to rain, and he had better be thinking of his ride to the city."
                  Nelly looked up at the blue heavens, where not a speck of a cloud was visible, and gravely congratulated him on a weather wisdom, which was equally rare and incomprehensible.
                  "But your season, my dear Harry, is always April; sunshine and storm succeed so rapidly that you can never take in the unbroken calm of this—December, for instance. Beside, I thought you were to stay all night with us? I know mamma expects you to do so."
                  "I am very much obliged," said Mr. Trevor, haughtily, "I have business in town."
                  "Clients? court sitting?" asked Nelly, innocently and demurely, lifting her pretty eyebrows.
                  "No. There is a party at Lou Wilson's, and I half promised to go. We are to try some new figures of the German."
                  "Indeed." Nelly's eyes flashed, and the color stole up deeper to her cheek. "I won't detain you."
                  She bowed and turned from him, with a cold "good morning." Her heart was beating and the tears were very near, but she managed to still the one and send back the others, so as to say indifferently over her shoulder: "Should you see Walter James, pray tell him that I shall be happy to learn that accompaniment by this evening, and as there is a moon (in spite of your storm), he can ride out after business hours, and practise the song. But, however, I won't trouble you—mamma is to send a servant to Mrs. James' some time to-day, and I will write a note."
                  "I think it will be useless. He is going to Miss Wilson's."
                  "Not if he can come here, I fancy," said the willful little beauty, with a significant tone—and then repeating her cool "good bye—let us see you soon," she sauntered into the house, elaborately pausing to pick off some dead leaves from the geraniums that were sunning themselves on the broad steps by which she entered.
                  Thus parted two foolish children—one of whom had a moment before expressed the most overwhelming passion, and the other had avowed herself "in the sight of Heaven, his affianced wife!"
                  As might be conjectured, these scenes were not infrequent. Helen was pretty, coquettish, much admired. She was more brilliant than her lover, and had a tender heart which was in very earnest given to him—but she had been spoiled and flattered a good deal; she was conscious of her own real devotion to Harry, and provoked when he was causelessly jealous. She felt in her own way quite as much disturbed by her father's determination as Harry did. It was hard not to see him except twice a week or so—particularly as, while he had the city in which to entertain himself, and his business to occupy him, she spent her winters almost entirely in the country, and her summers at the sea-shore. True, the "country" was but eight miles from the "city," and the roads were excellent; but papa could not allow the horses to travel sixteen miles every day, nor could Mr. Harry Trevor mount his thorough-bred mare every evening, and with a small parcel of brushes etc., flatly packed under his overcoat, present himself at Mrs. Latimer's hospitable tea-table, with decided intentions of "not going home till morning."
                  So Harry fretted, and Helen was often naughty. She could not always have the patience to soothe his temper, but if he accused her of coquetry and of indifference, she was very apt to begin the one and to pretend the other. Walter James was his cause of offence generally, and her weapon of aggressive defence, while on the opposite side, Miss Lou Wilson held this honorable position.
                  
                  Mr. Latimer saw with pain, and yet he was not quite hopeless, that this love, deep and strong as it was, promised no abiding happiness to his treasured darling.
                  "The boy loves her," he would say to his wife, who was a warm partisan of Harry, "no doubt he loves her, but he will never either make her happy or be so himself. Nelly needs a firm, strong, kind hand to guide her until she can guide herself. No violence, no anger, nor yet carried away by her pretty petulance, to pass over the ground of offence for the sake of the offender, but a judicious, warmhearted, amiable man, who will neither treat her like a plaything, nor a slave."
                  "Oh, of course, my dear, you only want perfection for Nelly, and poor Harry Trevor can't please you. He pleases the child though, that's one comfort."
                  "He don't please her—she loves him—but he does not please her. He brings out her worst qualities, and she brings out his. They don't act happily upon each other. Either of them would be better off with somebody else. Harry should seek a calm, quiet, submissive little woman, with charm enough to make him love her, while she just unquestioningly adores him: with not a grain of 'spirit,' nor a spark of intellectual 'fire,' who would do what he bid her;—yes, I will bring it about—or else, a cold-blooded, calculating, smooth-spoken, serene woman like Claudia Leslie. Yes—I'll have that girl to pay us a visit"——
                  "Dear! Mr. Latimer, how can you talk so! Claudia shan't come here to make mischief between her cousin and poor Harry. Do let the children alone, will you? You are going to make them wait four years—let things take their course—do."
                  Mrs. Latimer was very fond of letting things take their course; she was thoroughly amiable, and really attached to Trevor. She believed in the "children's," deep-rooted love, and she did not wish to have them worried. She exerted all her influence, therefore, to keep matters in their present train, and such conversations as the above, with slight variation, frequently took place between her husband and herself, resulting in no step of any kind.
                  Meanwhile, I have left Nelly, snipping away at the geraniums, her broad-leafed hat hiding her downcast face, and exhibiting in her absorbed horticultural interest, not the slightest care or attention tion for the angry lover who stalked off to the stables to order his horse.
                  Mr. Latimer sat reading in the embrasure of the window, with his newspaper held in a line with his nose.
                  Presently, up the back steps, which faced the entrance and had no break in its view down the long hall, but the heavy staircase that led to the second story, rushed Trevor. He came with sudden force upon Mrs. Latimer, who with her basket of keys suspended from her matronly arm, emerged from the pantry just in time to arrest him.
                  "Well, well, well!" she asked "what is this?"
                  "Nothing ma'am."
                  "What kind of nothing? A very tremendous nothing, I should think by your hurry, and your frown. Good gracious! Harry, you will be as wrinkled at thirty as old Dr. Smith, who has not a half inch of smooth skin all over him, if you screw up your face in that fashion."
                  "I beg your pardon," said Trevor, forcing a smile "I am just off for town—I have something to do there. Good bye, ma'am. Can I do anything for you?"
                  "Yes," answered the mother calmly, glancing from the impatient young man biting his under lip, to the careless young lady tending her flowers, "will you take a parcel to Mrs. James' for me? Nelly, darling, let those geraniums alone, you won't leave a leaf upon them. As your father says, you are always more enthusiastic than scientific. Come here."
                  Helen slowly obeyed, twitching her morning dress with nonchalant air as she tossed back her light ringlets and graceful head, and then dutifully stood beside her mother.
                  Mrs. Latimer searched for a key among the dozens which jingled in company with some loose cents and wooden labels in her basket; she was utterly uncognizant of the "quarrel" which she very plainly saw was "raging" silently.
                  "Go into the drawing-room, dear, and open that old secretary of your poor grandmammas.' Look on the top shelf, on the right hand, and you will see her manuscript receipt-book; I have promised to lend it to Mrs. James. Ah! they were better housekeepers in those days than we are now. Nobody makes bread like my dear mother, and as for Aunt Osborn, why, Harry, she would have scorned to have a loaf of baker's bread on her table. Where are you going, child? You must open the secretary for Nelly." And, without a smile or look of significance, Mrs. Latimer trotted off and her voice was heard immediately after, inquiring of the boy—whose business in life, as yet, was to brush flies and clean knifes—where he expected to go when he died, if he brought her such cloudy steel now.
                  Helen walked into the drawing-room and Trevor marched in dignified silence after her. It was a very old fashioned, curiously built house—the furniture was a mixture of the antique and the modern. Little corner closets—two steps leading to a recess in whch a door opened into the adjoining room—a fireplace paved and lined with old Dutch blue and white tiles (those at the back quite obscured by the fire and smoke of many years, and those at the sides still clear and clean, showing their quaint scriptural subjects)—and the walls covered with a paper, an inexhaustible source of entertainment to all visitors and to the household themselves. It was the landscape style of papering, thickly interspersed with what were considered, fifty years ago, human figures. Here, tripped across a rustic bridge, an elegant lady, with a waist ribbon just beneath her armholes, a floating scarf giving an uninterrupted view of her narrow skirted figure, and a parasol crowning her coal-scuttle bonnet. There, a coach-full of ladies, followed by a cloud of orange-colored dust, flirted and chatted with attending cavaliers who were dressed in the preposterous fashion of those large cravats, narrow long coats, and very tight continuations by which, in the days that women made themselves frightful, the men showed that they were not to be outdone. On the one side, a party was preparing for an excursion on a lake of the deepest blue in a bark of the liveliest green. In this group, colors went madder than ever, and the attitudes were more extravagant if possible. But the glory of the whole was a tender love scene, where a gentleman with unapproachable hair and whiskers, thrown on one knee, before a modest beauty (whose coiffure, a la Titus, was kept from blowing away by a yellow handkerchief tied under her chin), rapturously seized her hand at a distance of two yards and was evidently pouring out his soul in language calculated to alarm an infant, dandled in its mother's arms, an inch or two from the lover's heels, for the paper suddenly joined just there and injured the perspective.
                  
                  Mrs. Latimer would not have removed this ancient adornment of her walls for the finest panelling in crimson and gold, any more than she would have dismissed from the narrow deep-set windows the fading chintz curtains, where dimly glowed those birds and flowers especially invented and reserved for chintzes.
                  The carved walnut chairs and tables, rich in lions' heads and eagles' claws, kept their places among a few more comfortable seats, introduced by Helen, and an étagère which likewise owned her as its mistress. She filled the old china bowls daily with flowers, when there were any, and her piano stood between the two front windows. Altogether, it was a room, which old fashioned and old as it was, had not a shade of gloom about it, any more than it had a suspicion of dust. It had come to the Latimers through Helen's mamma, who was a small heiress, and proud of her good birth. They were not rich, the Latimers—they were comfortable, and that was all, lived quietly, made no debts, and as you have heard, Helen was an only child. The secretary stood opposite the piano, mounted with brass, shining with rubbing and care.
                  "You need not trouble yourself," Helen said with formal politeness, "I can turn the key and would on no account disturb you."
                  "As you please," Harry answered sullenly. But the key would not turn; Helen drew off her glove and marked her white fingers with a deep red bar, while the blood mounted angrily to her brow. Harry would not offer again—he watched her with pretended indifference, then suddenly taking her hand in his with gentle force, he said, though she tried petulantly to draw it away, "Nelly, you had better not reject my help," and unlocked the door.
                  Instantly, the little hand lay quietly in his, and with a burst of tears, Helen's head sought his shoulder, while his strong arms held her tightly to him.
                  "Why do you treat me so?" sobbed Nelly.
                  "It was you, my love, my own spoiled darling. Why did you seem so indifferent just now, when I was angry? A word from you, would have calmed me."
                  "Yes, but why should you begin by being angry?"
                  "How can I help it? Was there ever a man so tormented as I am. What pleasure is there in life for me? Forbidden to claim you publicly as mine—almost forbidden to do so privately—having before me four years of probation and suffering—you, so much admired—so lightheaded"—"(Thank you," Nelly put in, with pouting lips;) "yes, Nell dear, you can't resist turning every man's head. (Helen smiled); yes, I see you approached on equal terms, by every man of your acquaintance, and God knows, you have a wide enough circle! I must listen to idle comments on this one's chance or that one's certainty of winning you, while I have not the power to shut up their impertinent tongues by boldly saying, 'she is mine.'"
                  "Harry! Harry! if you were not my Harry, I should say that your love is more vanity than love. You have the reality—yet you only wish the world to know it."
                  "It is not that. I don't like you to be exposed to any man's attentions."
                  "Then, my dear, you had better employ the next four years in laying aside your spare dollars to build an inaccessible tower in which you will hermetically seal up Mrs. Harry Othello Trevor on her wedding day."
                  "Will you flirt after you are married, Helen?" asked Othello, looking down anxiously at the nestling, saucy face.
                  "Won't I?" said Nelly mischievously; but she followed the remark by such a pretty demonstration made by standing on tiptoe, that she effectually stopped any rebuke or anger.
                  "Children, have you found the book?" inquired Mrs. Latimer from the hall.
                  "Yes, mamma, we have found Peace—of it." Nelly laughingly said, breathlessly disengaging herself from the detaining arms with the sweetest color on her fresh young cheeks, and a softened light dancing under her dark and still wet eyelashes. "Stop, Harry," she whispered, "let go my hand."
                  "Is Harry ready to go?" asked Mrs. Latimer, innocently, as she entered, and found Helen's face resolutely turned toward the "top shelf," Harry demurely and respectfully standing beside her.
                  "Are you ready, Harry?" repeated Helen ironically without looking round, "here is the book, isn't it, mamma?"
                  "This is 'Fordyce's Advice to Young Ladies;' nonsense, Nelly, what have you been about?"
                  "The fact is, Mrs. Latimer, I will stay till to-morrow, if you will allow me to change my mind."
                  "And Lou Wilson's party! and the new figure for the 'German!' I thought you had to go? Here is this old book, at last. I thought you had to go?"
                  "Don't tease, Helen. I am very glad that you stay, Harry. Never mind Helen's teasing. You are both young. At nineteen, Helen has had no real troubles, you at twenty-three can say the same, except the loss of your dear father and mother, my boy; but you were very young then, and your sister has been everything to you. You have nothing to worry you, and you worry each other. Take care, take care, my poor children. I have known many true hearts parted for a few foolish words—and more foolish actions. Thank God that he has given to each an honest and sincere love, and don't throw away such a priceless gift. I blame you both. Harry is jealous and hasty, Helen is flirting and hasty too (turn round Helen), but often you make Helen flirt and show off her airs because you suspect her when she is doing nothing; and you, Miss Nelly, aggravate Harry, as soon as he begins to get restive. Now, mind what I say, Helen's papa is fond of Harry Trevor, as Harry Trevor, but he does not think that he will answer for Helen Latimer's husband. Oh, don't frown, my dear Harry—it is that temper, that violence which frightens him. Be more reasonable—both of you. My boy," the old lady continued, for Helen was forty years younger than her mother, "you are very dear to me. I never had a son that lived to be ten years—you—you are the son—well, never mind, only, I am your friend. God bless you both, my children," and with tears in her kind eyes, Mrs. Latimer abruptly left them.
                  Helen's hand had stolen behind her back when first she turned toward her mother, had slipped into Harry's, and now they sat down, grave and subdued and silent. There was something solemn in Mrs. Latimer's manner and accents. Could anything really part them? That was the thought of both. Oh! how earnestly, both vowed within themselves to correct their faults, to be patient, to forbear.
                  "Walter James shall never talk folly to me again," thought Helen; "and if Harry ever grows angry about any one or anything else, instead of first resenting it, I will look and see if there may not be some cause for his temper."
                  "I shall not go to see Lou Wilson for a month," thought Harry; "and I was hard on dear Nelly. How can she help it, if all the men admire her."
                  It was a happy afternoon and evening. Helen's spirits soon went up to concert pitch again; she was full of sweet mischief and loving laughter. Dutiful and affectionate at dinner to her papa, caressing and attentive to her mamma, and charming all the time to Harry. He was "lapp'd in an elysium" of full delight. The four years were forgotten—the hours flew along "velvet shod,' although below the pleasure he really felt and expressed, Trevor nourished a feeling of defiant resentment against his future father-in-law.
                  Eleven o'clock came all too quickly. It was the hour for retirement in this quiet household. Mrs. Latimer might have forgotten it, but Mr. Latimer produced his large, unerring watch and there was no resistance.
                  A few moments of grace were pilfered by Helen, who again found the geraniums of infinite service in ministering to her wishes. "They had not been taken in! did mamma think the night mild enough to leave them out?"
                  "You had better see," said mamma.
                  So Harry and Helen opened the front door and noiselessly closed it behind them. The moon was just rising; from her deep amber and flame colored disk was shooting a broad stream of light through the sturdy and beautiful branches of the oaks. Not a breath stirred the almost holy calm. Not a sound broke it. From a distant cottage or two, where the house-servants lived, the ruddy glow of pine knots shone through an occasional crack in door or window. The atmosphere was clear and not cold. The stars twinkled in a heaven of the purest blue, and the milky-way formed the only break in the celestial color from dome to horizon.
                  "My own, own Helen," murmured Trevor passionately, "I never felt you so much mine, so entirely mine, as to-day. What day of the month is it? I wish to keep it as an anniversary."
                  Helen named it.
                  "Ever blessed be this day. It began sadly, but it ends blissfully. I read in your dear face what I have never seen there before. A gentleness and softness most bewitching. What were those lines we saw the other morning? I feel as if they were written for us," and he softly and fervently repeated: 
                        
                           "Mine to the core of the heart, my beauty,
                           Mine, all mine and for love—not duty.
                           Love given willingly, full and free
                           Love for love's sake as I love thee.
                           Duty, a servant, keeps the keys,
                           But Love, the master, goes in and out
                           Of his goodly chambers, with song and shout,
                           Just as he please, just as he please!
                        
                        
                           "Mine, from the dear heart's crown, bright golden,
                           To the silken foot that's scarce beholden.—
                           Give a warm hand to a friend—a smile,
                           Like a generous lady, now and a while;
                           But the sanctuary heart, that none dare win,
                           Keep holiest of holiest evermore—
                           The crowd in the aisles may watch the door,
                           The high-priest only, enters in.
                        
                        
                           "Mine, my own, without doubt or terrors;
                           With all thy goodness, all thy errors
                           Unto me, and to me alone, revealed—
                           'A spring shut up—a fountain sealed.'
                           Many may praise thee—praise mine and thine,
                           Many may like thee—I'll like them too;
                           But thy heart of hearts, pure, faithful and true,
                           Must be mine, mine wholly, forever mine."
                        
                     
                  
                  "Do you not feel this, beloved? This is what I feel, and yet you cannot call it jealousy?"
                  Helen smiled and pressed his hand, while she was almost uneasy at meeting his burning, darkly gleaming eyes. His heart was beating with rapid throbs, and the arm which supported her, trembled as he drew her nearer to him. This was the vehemence, the passionate earnestness which always alarmed her. It was not the deep, calm delight, for which she thirsted. Impetuous herself, she admired control in others, and she had already learnt too well, that this fiery love could change, in half a moment, to fiery anger. But not to-night. To-night Harry was supremely happy: he kissed again and again the sweet lips that unresistingly met his own, "had not mamma sanctioned their engagement?" and when the voice of that kind mother, fearful of paternal displeasure, called to the truants, they exchanged leaves from the convenient geraniums and said good-night, with tones of such fresh and veiled tenderness, as sent them both to their pillows, satisfied with each other and with all the world."
                  Here, Mrs. Sutherland sighed and paused. A feverish spot burnt in either cheek, as she looked up. Olivia was all attention.
                  "Are you tired, Olivia?"
                  "No; very much interested—pray go on."
                  "It is not a connected story, they are only detached fragments, showing different scenes—scenes, which marked and made this young girl's life. I am no novelist," she concluded, smiling faintly.
                  "You have the merit of pleasing your only public—myself. But, I don't like Harry Trevor."
                  "Then," said Mrs. Sutherland, growing perceptibly pale, "it is my fault, for at that time he was worthy of love. I have not drawn him to the life, if he is not lovable with all his faults."
                  "No. He was selfish," Olivia said, shaking her head. "Selfish and violent."
                  Mrs. Sutherland made no reply, and mechanically fluttered the leaves of the MS. with her eyes bent down.
                  "Do go on, what comes next?"
                  "I must fill up the hiatus first. Eight months have passed between this day, and the next appearance of my hero and heroine. Nearly a a year. Their faults have not been much corrected.
                  I suppose it was as the wise Father said, 'They acted unhappily upon each other, and either would have been better with somebody else.' Helen went to the city as usual and stayed with her aunt Leslie, her father's sister, during 'the season.' She needed her mother's care then, more than ever, but no one suspected it. Her tacit engagement with Trevor was unannounced, and not quite believed by anybody. The families were intimate and distantly connected by marriage, which accounted for any undue intimacy. Besides, Mr. Latimer, while he laid little restraint upon their private intercourse, made that permission depend upon public deference to his wishes. He evidently desired that Helen should receive untrammelled attentions, and thereby judge of her own constancy and the strength of her attachment. This might be called unfair to Trevor, but he was not bound in any way either, and true it was, that if Helen accepted the bouquets, bonbons, and devotions of half the youths in society, Trevor kept up a kind of partly sentimental, partly brotherly, partly laughing attention to two or three very pretty girls and one or two very gay matrons who waltzed à ravir and petted him à l'outrance.
                  
                  
                  "In especial, there was a Mrs. St. Clair, witty, dazzling, wicked, kind-hearted in the main, but deadly fond of mischief. She guessed with true woman's keenness the concealed betrothal, and as poor Helen undertook to resent the rivalry, instead of enlisting the goodwill of this dangerous marauder, Mrs. St. Clair used to make the girl feel that no single woman, artless and ignorant, can be a match for a married one with every weapon bright from use and experience.
                  "Flattered by Mrs. St. Clair's notice, bewildered by her soft words and softer looks, Harry would listen and admire under the very eyes of Helen. Of course, he did not love Bertha St. Clair, and coxcomb as he sometimes was, he knew very well that she was only amusing herself, but it was delicious to be so amused. Then, Helen, with perversity, instead of showing him that she felt this, would flirt too. Next came mutual distress, a meeting, crimination, recrimination, tears, explanations, avowals, tender reproaches, reconciliation. Sometimes a break up—eternal adieux, which lasted twelve hours—ah! Olivia, you may guess it all.
                  "I fancy follies like these began in the next generation to Adam and Eve. Mrs. St. Clair did not mean to harm any one, but she was piqued by Helen's air of indignation and her avoidance of the brilliant belle."
                  "Is not Mrs. St. Clair your friend Mrs——?" inquired Olivia, eagerly.
                  "Hush!" cried Sylvia, interrupting her; "if you begin to guess my characters, I will not say anymore. You are my 'public' as you have called yourself. If the author is not anonymous, the dramatis personæ are, and I must require that you deal with them as Southey said of reviewing the former class, 'if I have guessed who they are, or know it, I have never mentioned them, taking it for granted they had sufficient reasons for avoiding publicity.'"
                  "I am silent. I utterly ignore Mrs. St. Clair."
                  "Bertha St. Clair was little known by any one,—least of all by Helen Latimer, who thought of her and condemned her as a bold, bad woman, responded to her kind glances with haughtily cold ones rejected her advances as insults, and turned the whole powers of her budding sarcasm to strike down the full blown and polished wit of her rival, as she considered her. Mrs. St. Clair might have crushed the girl then with the 'mailed hand' of her power, as some warrior, tried in many a battle, could with one blow destroy the infant, whom time may make his equal; but she did not. So soon as she saw, that she was giving real pain to a real heart, and not merely disputing the possession of a vain young man's attentions with a flirting and saucy young woman, she desisted. But, it was too late then, I am going too fast. It was many months before Mrs. St. Clair realized this, still many more before Helen Latimer recognized under the light, unthinking, sparkling, unblushing exterior, as true a feeling, as honest a heart, as warm a friend, as generous sentiments, as ever God gave to one of his creatures, and the world and circumstances helped to injure and tried to destroy.
                  "No; Helen in her unfortunate ignorance turned angrily and superciliously from the kind hand stretched out to her, because, forsooth, jealousy and envy in society love to blacken what they ought to admire and cherish. They whispered ugly things into Helen's pure ears, which neither truth nor propriety should have permitted, and her own personal enmity awakened, by Harry's vanity, which had sought Mrs. St. Clair's shrine, she joined the vulgar hue and cry, and threw herself upon the sympathy of Claudia Leslie.
                  "Claudia Leslie! That name was music to Helen's ears, when Helen's thoughts of perfection in woman wished to embody themselves, Claudia was the result. Claudia, so kind, so good, so proper, so amusing, so clever, so unselfish. Handsome without vanity, accomplished without conceit, learned (to Helen's simple eyes) without pedantry. Who was like Claudia? 'There are many very good girls,' Helen would say to her mother; 'but then they are so stupid and dull; now Claudia is "very good" and she is charming. People who perform their duties, are always boring one to death about their "duties," but, mamma, Claudia does everything she ought to do, and makes no fuss. I envy her that power. I hate duties. Call anything a "duty," and if it were a pleasure before, I begin to abhor it. By the by, I said that once to papa, and he called me a "female Sir John Brute," and you shook your head at him, what did he mean?' I believe Mrs. Latimer only shook her head again, and Nelly kept on; her conclusion was, 'oh, mamma, if I were only like Claudia!' I remember,—that is,—Helen told me that Mrs. Latimer exclaimed, 'God forbid! With all your faults, Nelly, and you have plenty of them, my pet, I prefer you.' Helen saw only the implied rejection of Claudia's wonderful qualities, not an affectionate compliment to herself. 'Indeed, mamma,' she exclaimed hastily, coloring with a little temper, "between papa who dislikes Harry, and you who won't appreciate Claudia, I think I have a hard life of it. My two only friends!'"
                  "Thus you see, Olivia, matters stood"——
                  "And was Claudia 'perfection?'"
                  "Don't turn to the last pages, and read the dénoûment of the story, when you are at the first chapter," Mrs. Sutherland said, smiling a little bitterly. "Let me go on—Thus matters stood, when the balls and parties were over, and Helen returned to the country. There was a lull just then between Harry and herself—Mrs. St. Clair had snubbed Harry about that time, and was bringing up 'by hand,' a precocious boy of eighteen, who put on conquering airs, and settled his cravat whenever her name was mentioned—sent her bouquets daily, as big as his own empty head, and received in return, permission to lounge in a stately way at her side, in her walks, or in her drawing-room, whenever she had nothing better to do. His foppishness pishness entertained her, and she only paid the penalty of having a thousand scandalous stories circulated about her, with his name attached.
                  "Harry told Helen that he had deserted Mrs. St. Clair, principally because she did not like the lady, and of course, foolish Helen believed it, and praised his good behaviour, for now that he professed but scant admiration for the lively and lovely Bertha, protesting that he had 'found her out,' Helen began to unseal her eyes to the positive charms of Mrs. St. Clair, and to feel that it was really sweet of Harry, to give up so agreeable an acquaintance (whom he had only begun to study carefully and thus disillusion himself), for her sake.
                  "The 'lovers' quarrels' were few and at long intervals. Summer came, and as usual the Latimers moved to Curlew Island, the sea-shore residence, very near the city, which was their yearly home for four or five months. It is at this place, that the next scene occurs which I have written." Mrs. Sutherland looked at her watch.
                  "Quarter past eleven o'clock! Is it not bedtime?"
                  "My dear, if the grey dawn finds us sitting here, I must get the end of the story."
                  
                  "Look out at the weather."
                  "Oh, I hear the rain still. You are not sleepy. I am not. If your voice is tired, let me give you a glass of eau sucrée." She fetched it from a table in the corner, stirring the contents as she walked.
                  "Now drink it, Sylvia," and then she resolutely resumed her seat, her chin resting in the hollow of her dimpled left hand, her elbow suported on her knee.
                  
                  
                  Claudia Leslie and Helen Latimer sat busied with their sewing-work in a cool, dark, airy room, one bright summer morning. It was not for either just then, what Bulwer calls "woman's pretty excuse for thinking"—they gossipped as their nimble fingers executed "ever so much" broderie anglaise. It must be admitted that Helen's strip of cambric was less to be commended than her cousin's. Like everything which Claudia undertook, she perfected herself in it, the leaves and wheels of her pattern were exact, neat and smooth, while Helen's straggled, with an occasional skip, and very often an unlucky stroke of her scissors in a wrong spot.
                  Some such accident caused her to exclaim:
                  "Oh, Claudia! see how horrid. Can you do anything with it?" holding out the unlucky chef-d'œuvre.
                  
                  Miss Leslie laid down her own work, and obliging as she always was in these and similar little matters, she patiently began to rectify Nelly's blunder.
                  "Indeed," Helen pursued, "I think Mrs. Harcourt was right. The other day Miss Lawrence, 'Lazy Lawrence' as Walter James calls her, showed a petticoat she is embroidering to Mrs. Harcourt—what she considered a marvel of a petticoat, and instead of a burst of admiration, the old lady said, peering through her spectacles, 'dear me! how much you work like Nelly Latimer?' 'Is it as bad as Nelly's?' cried Lazy Lawrence, horrified, and then begged my pardon. Whose step is that?" interrupting herself.
                  She bounded to the door and received Harry Trevor.
                  "Oh, I am so very glad—are not you, Claudia? mamma and papa have gone to town, Harry, for the day—they are going up to Oaklevel. We are keeping house, and ordered such a nice dinner, didn't we? Cooter soup—with eggs—mark you, sir, with eggs! and plenty of them, and, what else, Claudia? never mind, lots of things. So now sit down, Harry, and tell us what is going on in the city."
                  "Won't you have some claret after your warm walk and the smoky steamboat?" put in Miss Leslie's well modulated voice.
                  As Trevor accepted, and Nelly flew to order it, she added, "Helen is so forgetful; it is not from a want of consideration, only thoughtlessness."
                  "Every one cannot be so kind and so full of charming attentions as you, Miss Claudia. How long have you been here?"
                  "I came yesterday."
                  "How do you find the island?"
                  "As usual," with an expressive shrug. "To please Helen, we are going to the hop at the Ocean House to-morrow night."
                  "Ah! I did not know that there was anything so gay on hand."
                  "Did you not?"
                  "And Helen wishes very much to go?"
                  "Very much. She wrote to Rupert yesterday, asking him to come down and take us. It is very natural for her to like such things—at her age."
                  "She is very little younger than you."
                  "Four years; and I, you know, am so much graver and quieter."
                  "She wrote to Rupert?"
                  "Yes. How amusing Walter James is? He spent last evening here. He and Helen sat out on the rocks of the breakwater, and kept up such an incessant racket of laughter and fun, that I went after them. Helen looked so mischievous and lovely—I wish you could have seen her. She vowed that a stone-crab had bitten her foot, and would neither move from the seat she had chosen, nor abandon the stone-crab belief, so she was gathered into a little heap of white nubie, pink skirts, terror and blown-to-pieces ringlets, while Walter, flat on his face, was poking with a stick among the crevices of the rocks, looking like a giant in pursuit of prey."
                  "Very dignified for both parties."
                  "Who is dignified?" asked Helen, returning, followed by a servant and tray of luncheon. "Now, my dear Harry, as Mr. Standard says, after a hearty dinner, you 'need nourishment.' You were very nice to come to-day, instead of waiting until to-morrow. I charged Rupert to let you have the 'word' I inclosed for you to him, as soon as he received it, but I scarcely hoped to see you before to-morrow evening."
                  Trevor glanced at Claudia; she was peeling peaches diligently.
                  "I got no note."
                  "Did you not? Think of that, Claudia. What is your unworthy brother about?"
                  "I did not know that you had written to Mr. Trevor."
                  "Then you were asleep, for I told you so. However it is all right, but I shall scold Rupert, for it might have been all wrong."
                  The cloud on Harry's brow cleared away: he forgot in the pleasure of finding his mistake, the possible intention of Miss Leslie, who soon withdrew, leaving the lovers to a private talk which was most delightful to both.
                  Trevor had brought an exquisite little bunch of breloques for his dearest Helen's chatelaine. She first scolded him for extravagance and then admired the taste and beauty of these costly trifles.
                  "There's a pair of bellows: Cupid enamelled on the top, puffing away at an ill-made fire."
                  "That is to signify that you are continually to blow up our mutual flame."
                  "Thank you, Harry, you blow me up enough already. But, no doubt I deserve it," she meekly added, with a saucy gleam from her bright eyes: "Here is a dear little key, set with rubies."
                  "The key of my heart, fair enslaver. A telescope, ma'am, to watch me from a distance; a cup, in which to drink my health, and so on, and so on; put them away now, and look at me."
                  "Ah, you skip the magnifying glass; with which, I presume, I had best inspect your virtues."
                  "You will not need it to find out my love, dear Nell," and thus, silly enough in their talk, to prove that they were not "making conversation" to dazzle each other, but happy in the interchange of confidence and affection, they passed the fast-moving hours. Neither, it may be observed, probed the depths of the other's heart. They loved like two birds—billing, cooing, squabbling—I fear it was but a senseless business. They little understood the ground on which they were treading; there was deep feeling, but they neither analyzed it nor cultivated it. They took their lives and their engagement, as if the field of the one was a ballroom room—the tenure of the other, the duration of a dance. They built their house upon the sand, and what wonder that the first storm levelled the walls. And yet the wreck was none the less complete and overwhelming to one dweller within them, because of the unstable foundation.
                  The dinner was gay and "very nice," as Helen had promised. Who so witty and caustic as Claudia, with her serene eyes and calm demeanor? She said the cruellest and cleverest things so quietly, that while they lost none of their effect, they never sounded half so biting as Helen's, who thoroughly enjoying her own speeches—entering into the spirit which provoked them, gave the full force of eye, lip, and manner, to the simplest of her remarks. This was the salient difference between the cousins. Helen said clever things from fun, from love of sport and laughter; she was as willing to laugh at you before your face, as behind your back, in fact she rather preferred it. Perfectly prepared to receive as well as give, she never lost her temper, so quick elsewhere, for a joke. She never meant to be unkind, never could understand where she had given offence, and kept her hard blows, as she thought, scrupulously, for those who attacked her with malice prepense, with inimical feelings; her light skirmishes, she fancied, were made with weapons feather-tipped, and wrapped in the down of her own kindly nature. Now, Claudia wasted no ammunition in the face of the world of her acquaintance, not that she cared three straws about three people, but it was bad policy. If she was sarcastic, her victim was confused between her words and the calm inexpression of her countenance; very often, Claudia accused Helen of pointing a remark, which would never have been comprehended, by letting the opponent see on Miss Latimer's face, her enjoyment of her cousin's speech. If Claudia gave the rein to her wit, and revelled in the consciousness that she was brilliant, she generally chose her audience and was secure of no dangerous repetition. But, after all, there was a run of ill-luck against poor Helen—the very winds seemed to be the messengers which conveyed laughing comments to ears that received them as molten lead, sinking deep and searing every kindly sentiment toward the careless speaker; often again where, together, the cousins had committed some slight imprudence or said some saucy thing, Miss Latimer would meet offended and averted faces, while she would cry out at the injustice of seeing Claudia received as usual, or in fact, more cordially, as if to mark the intention. But never did she harbor resentment for this, against her own dear Claudia. Claudia comforted her so nicely; and after all, if a rod had to be wielded, better her broad shoulders than Claudia's.
                  But it was pleasant to listen to these two when they were "in the vein." They gave the ball to each other, they tossed it from either side, with such grace and facility. It was so on this day, and Trevor, usually grave and reserved in society, indulged in a thousand quips and quirks where he felt himself at home.
                  "What shall we do this afternoon?" inquired Helen, as they rose from the dinner-table and sipped their coffee in the broad piazza, inclosed with Venetian blinds, through which the sea breeze poured.
                  "You and Mr. Trevor had better walk," said Claudia; "mamma commissioned me to find out some quiet private lodgings, somewhere, for her old friend Miss Patty Baring, who wishes to try sea-bathing. If she goes into the surf with all that array of 'frisette' above her blessed old face, she will frighten the sharks effectually. I think she has added another row of curls and hairpins—at least I believe the curls are there, for I see the pins."
                  "Will she bathe in the black silk? For a modest woman, she wears the scantiest and fewest petticoats, and for a rich one, the shabbiest. But must you go lodging-hunting instead of walking with us?"
                  "Oh, you will miss me terribly!" said Claudia, "let us go and dress."
                  Equipped in a fresh muslin gown, decked with flounces, bright with ribbons, no covering on her head but its sunny curls, looped back from "the wooing of each Egeian wind," a scarf thrown across her bare arms, forth stepped Helen Latimer, waving a kiss to her cousin, as Trevor, with lifted hat, wished her "good bye" till their return.
                  The beach of Curlew Island? Did you ever visit this patriotic spot! Did you ever take a plunge in the surf which rolls up twenty yards from the very steps of the Ocean House? Did you ever try to shoot a curlew as it came circling over the ground? Did you ever go out at daylight after a spring tide, furnished with a stick, and knock over marsh hens by the dozen, as they hop disconsolately through the flooded fields, which lately afforded them shelter? Did you ever fish all the day long from a "breakwater," with your legs dangling seaward, and get nothing but a crab or two, and a very red face for all your pains and heat? Did you ever go out patrolling "properly armed and accoutered," with—an umbrella, and if you were green at the business, find yourself at the end of a half hour, the only man protecting the public peace, the others having slipped round corners and gone home to their beds, after answering to their names? Did you ever bowl along the beach with a 2.40 thorough-goer (or even a pacing nag as gentle as the Prior's palfrey which he lent King Richard), and see the sun set in a glory of dissolving clouds—purple, gold, pink, blue, orange and grey—see it finally disappear, leaving a myriad of faintly shooting rays, pointing upward like giant fingers, and then watch the "crescent in the sky" as the sea ripples and dances in its holy light? and lift your hat to passing crowds of white-robed Nereids, making the sands merry with their unchecked laughter? or exchange smiles with barefooted children, gathering health, strength and shells by this intimate acquaintance with mother earth?
                  Did you ever enjoy your "tea" heartily after all this, and think shrimp salad and devilled crabs "great inventions?"
                  Did you ever, as midnight broods over this island, saunter, lonely and sad, upon the firm, hard, glittering beach, listening to the mournful melody of the eternal waters, and watching the white crest of each foaming wave, as it rises, curls, falls and breaks, sending a long line of silver light, right and left, ending in sparkling spray? Sometimes from the Ocean House, murmurs the sound of a softly cadenced waltz: the waves keep time, thoughts go struggling back to far distant days and persons: happy are you, if at such a moment, tears do not unbidden come, and memory spreading out her scroll of vanished hopes and dead delights, warn you look above now, for earth is passing away. The sea of life, with its resistless tide, has fretted the sands beneath your feet, now advancing, now retreating, ever gaining upon you—give it up. Turn your back upon its deceitful glitter, do not heed its strange fascination—seek the higher ground—leave the mighty sea, it brings you no good—Alone! what! stretch out your weak arms to stem that tide? mount the safer and humbler hills which border these glorious waters, hide yourself among them—these waters are not for you—fold your arms, "stand and wait!"
                  No such melancholy thoughts visited Helen and Trevor as their active feet carried them over the side-walk, partly reclaimed with shells from the surrounding waste of sand, and which constitutes the path through the growing village of Rutledge-super mare. They were out soon upon the beach, with a southwest wind blowing, and one of those beautiful sunsets to which I cannot pretend to do justice, filling the entire heavens with its daily diorama of unequalled color and light. If we had to pay for this sight and saw it rarely, and found it expensive, how we would rave about the sun setting!
                  "Do you know, Nelly," said Trevor, "that I am not quite sure whether I like Claudia Leslie?"
                  "What!" exclaimed Helen, stopping short and facing her lover, "not like Claudia? What do you mean? why don't you?"
                  "I don't think that she is true to you," said Trevor, bluntly.
                  "True to me! She is true as steel—her very nature is true: She can't help being true. Pray don't speak in this way. I think you do it to annoy me, Harry, and it is not kind of you. Claudia and I have been like sisters, ever since I was a little thing. As I look back to all her past kindness, all she has done for me, all the generosity of thought and action to which I am accustomed from her, it seems wrong that I should listen to such a suggestion, even from you."
                  Harry whistled.
                  "Has it ever been yet, to her interest, to treat you otherwise? could she gain anything by neglect of you, or unkindness to you? That is the point."
                  "I know how it is," said Helen, eyes flashing, color rising, lips compressing; "mamma has set you against Claudia."
                  "I am not against her. I admire her: she is so polished and unruffled—when she chooses to be. Her feelings will never lead her astray, or make her show the temper that you have at this moment. I'll tell you what, Nelly, Claudia would not get into that heat about you—no, not if she saw you being flayed alive."
                  "You don't know her."
                  "Did not I hear her tell you the other day—no, you mentioned it—that, as your near relation, she loved you, but she knew that if the same blood had not first thrown you together, you were the last person she would have sought?"
                  "That shows you how true she is; and I know I am not good enough for Claudia. She is my superior in everything."
                  "She is your inferior, dearest, in all those qualities which make a woman lovable."
                  "Thank you, dear Harry," and a grateful pressure of his arm, with a melting, modest glance, was Helen's answer; "but," she went on, "don't praise me at her expense."
                  "Did you not perceive how she reddened when you, heedlessly, as usual, sweetheart, burst out with her pretty confidence. She was very much annoyed. I could not help thinking of Thackeray's 'Vanity Fair,' where Mrs. Bullock, the magnificent, says of Miss Jane Osborne, 'Jane is peculiar, but of course I love her as my sister.' To which the great humorist adds, 'what does it mean when a lady says she loves Jane as a sister.'" and Trevor smiled provokingly
                  "Even you must not speak so to me about my cousin, Harry," Helen pursued. "I can't permit it."
                  "I have the right to speak as I please."
                  "I don't admit it."
                  Then ensued a silence, broken presently by Helen.
                  "Don't let us quarrel, dear."
                  "I am not quarrelling. I told you a simple truth which I have long noticed, and you choose to consider me rude, and to speak as no affianced wife of mine shall speak to me."
                  "I am sorry," began Helen.
                  "It is not enough to say I am sorry; you must not begin by doing so."
                  Helen was silent again.
                  "Now you are sulky."
                  "Indeed I am not, Harry. But I don't know what to do. You say things I don't like, then I say things you don't like; but all the penitence must come from me, excuses (which you reject), and advances, which you receive as your just due. I am tired of all this. You are so cross."
                  "Oh! of course I am."
                  They walked uncomfortably along, both dissatisfied with themselves and with each other.
                  A step came rapidly behind them.
                  "Good evening, Miss Nelly. Well, Trevor."
                  
                  "Ah, Mr. James!" cried Nelly, joyously.
                  "How d'ye do," said Trevor with a slight frown.
                  "When did you get down, Harry? To-day? Nice weather we have; great times at the hotel. splendid hop in preparation for to-morrow, Miss Nelly. Mother Scarborough has come down for it, Poppy S. left in town. Maria is radiant; looks more like 'a statue' than ever."
                  "Has Maria come? I am really glad. How is she?"
                  "Very well. She was striking one of her statuesque attitudes this morning by maternal orders, and her doting parent asked old Frothingham if her Maria did not remind him of 'some exquisite specimen of antique sculpture?' question de rigueur. 'Too much drapery, madam, for marble, and too little for flesh and blood.'"
                  Helen laughed, and said "For shame."
                  "D——d insolent and indecent," muttered Trevor.
                  "I agree with you, Hal," said Walter; "very insolent of the ancient Scarborough and very indecent of the young one."
                  "That was not what I meant," replied Harry, coldly. "I allude to Mr. Frothingham's speech. Women can stand anything and laugh at anything in these days." With a meaning, half-contemptuous look toward Helen.
                  "What ought she to have done? called him out? By the way, Miss Nelly, I have a yacht!"
                  "How did you come by it? cash, credit, or inheritance?"
                  "None of the three; Tom Dallas has gone to Newport and left me his boat."
                  "Oh, that darling 'Sea bird?'" cried Helen, clapping her hands.
                  "Precisely."
                  "And you mean to take us out sailing, ever so often?"
                  "Your slave hears but to obey."
                  "When? this week? My cousin, Miss Leslie, is with me this week."
                  "Not this week, I fear. The 'Sea bird' is not quite ready to receive ladies on its snowy pinions; it has been freshly painted, we must wait awhile. Isn't that Ben Burgess? Hello! Ben, this way. Here is your Encyclopedia of useless knowledge, Miss Nell, you remember saying that, don't you?"
                  "I think I was the inventor of that very original cognomen; Claudia added that truth more nearly proclaimed him the Cyclops of one I—dea. Hush, here he is."
                  "One fool is bad enough, two are unendurable," Trevor muttered under his breath.
                  A perfect storm of words now ensued between the new comer—a shambling, conceited looking youth—Walter James and Helen.
                  The programme of the next evening was discussed, and it must be confessed that Miss Latimer enjoyed the gay rattling, in which she heartily joined, more than she had done the latter part of her tête-à-tête walk, although her companion was the chosen of her heart, the love of her life.
                  But, noticing the grim silence which he preserved, she began to get uneasy, gradually dropped off speaking, or else addressed herself pointedly to the dumb gentleman on her right.
                  Ten minutes of this, and the two interlopers perceived that they were de trop. Ben Burgess never, unaided, would have done so, for Nature had gifted him with an absolute belief in his own charms, and an impossibility of discovering that his "room was ever better than his company." He was one of those happily constituted beings, who accepts all attentions as necessary homage to his position (which was nothing), and to his agreeability (which was less than doubtful), and if he met with rebuffs, he attributed them always to ignorance or mistake.
                  He did very well when he "doubled" some one else, but was infinitely tiresome en tête-à-tête; and as luck favored him, without having even a dim consciousness of his prudence, he generally went about towed to some more conspicuous craft, in whose wake he disported himself.
                  Walter James suddenly remembered that he had promised to meet some one at 7 o'clock, "must go; walk down with me, Ben? Good bye, Miss Nelly. Remember my dances. Who was with you last evening, Trevor, if I am not indiscreet? I only saw her back, it looked like Mrs. St. Clair. Happy fellow!"
                  "It was Mrs. St. Clair," answered Trevor, impatiently. "She took tea with my sister, and I walked home with her."
                  "Well, good bye." And Walter James turned down the beach. They heard him laugh, as he said something to Mr. Burgess. No one positively knew of Helen's engagement, but many suspected it; and evidently Walter, who noticed her sudden annoyed surprise, enjoyed bestowing a Parthian dart upon the sulky attendant of Helen this afternoon, the cavalier of Mrs. St. Clair the night previous.
                  "You never mentioned Mrs. St. Clair," said Helen, after a pause.
                  "Didn't I? I suppose because I never thought of her."
                  "I am not sure that it is for that reason. Have you seen her often lately?"
                  "Once or twice."
                  "Indeed!"
                  "Jealous, Helen?"
                  "Of course not. There is no cause for jealousy in your devotions to a very gay and very"——
                  "Very what?"
                  "I am happy to say I neither know the lady nor her qualities; if I began to enumerate them, my ignorance might fall short of her possessions."
                  Walter took her hand—she drew it away.
                  "Is there no confidence between us, Helen? Do you doubt me?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Seriously?"
                  "Yes."
                  "No, you don't. You are angry now, and you say what you don't think."
                  "I'll tell you what I do think," said Helen, vehemently. "You arrogate to yourself unlimited power to go, to come, to whisper, to smile, to flirt where and when you please, while you expect me to live like a nun except with you. You resent every trifle, and look for unbounded patience and sweetness from me."
                  "Nelly."
                  "Papa is right—you don't care for me."
                  "Nelly!"—he would have her hand—they were far up the beach, having walked a greater distance than they intended. "Listen to me, dearest. This is foolish—make friends with me. I don't care a sixpence for Mrs. St. Clair. The woman runs after me just because she has nothing else to do, at present. She is very lively, and amusing, and coquettish—good-natured, too, in her way, and has capital suppers. She speaks very kindly of you and likes you."
                  "Much obliged to her; I would rather she should not. I wish no such friends."
                  "Well, let me go on. It is very dull for me in town. Thanks to your father, who is as obstinate as three mu—I beg your pardon—I see you at immense intervals. What am I to do? If I had a dear little wife and a dear little home, would I ever wish to leave them? Never! But it is cursed stupid for me at our house. My sister Mary has a lot of old women who come and talk to her about 'societies' and scandal—they are all as ugly as sin and can't even make their abuse of their neighbors amusing. When I have read the newspapers, and smoked two cigars, what becomes of me? I feel like cutting my throat."
                  "Why don't you read something else?"
                  "Reading is not in my line."
                  "It ought to be."
                  "No, darling, you shall do all my reading. I don't know ten books that are worth ten cents."
                  "Don't be stupid. Read law."
                  "Bother the law! I shall never be a lawyer. I am going to plant."
                  "Not I! I never engaged myself to a planter. Nip that fancy in its greenest bud, Harry, for I vow you shall never have me vibrating between rice-fields and pine-lands. But, you are going off from the subject; if you find the house dull, why does that drive you to Mrs. St. Clair's, or drive Mrs. St. Clair into Mrs. Percival's. Why don't you associate with men?"
                  "Very well, Nelly," said Trevor, with a resigned air, "the club is a fascinating place—cards grow upon one, brandy and water is the proper drink of man, and billiards the chief end of his existence."
                  "Oh!" exclaimed Helen, terrified, "does associating with men involve living at the club? Don't torment me, Harry."
                  "I am not tormenting you, my angel, you are tormenting yourself. You are filling your pretty little head with a thousand fancies. Pity me, be sorry for me, think how I long for these weary four years to pass!"
                  "Only three and a half," said Nelly, with such comical earnestness and contradiction, that Trevor smiling, caught her in his arms, saying, "I must kiss you for that, little vixen."
                  At that very instant, unheard upon the smooth sand, unheeded during the warmth of their discussion, an open carriage swept past them. On the back seat they distinguished Mrs. Scarborough, a withering frown upon her ample brow: her daughter beside her, and opposite, Ben Burgess, the ubiquitous Ben Burgess.
                  "Oh, Harry!" cried Helen, crimson, trembling, wretched, "what will they think?"
                  
                  "Who the d—l cares what they think! My Lady Scarborough was swelling like a turkey cock, her red cap ribbon no inapt representation of that domestic bird's comb. I'll speak to her about it."
                  "But papa; papa will never forgive you if you announce our engagement.
                  "Nothing else to be done?" said Trevor, doggedly.
                  "Couldn't you say, couldn't you say—she didn't see straight?"
                  "Dear Helen," solemnly, "beware of ridiculing personal deformities. Every one knows that Mrs. Scarborough squints fearfully—but, she sees clearly," he added, with a lamentable shake of the head.
                  "I must speak to papa and consult him," said Helen, blushing deeper at the notion of doing so.
                  "Nonsense. I am rather glad of it."
                  "I see you are, and that decides me. Don't talk about it any more, please, Harry, and let us get home. It is so late, too." She clung to his arm and urged him to his utmost speed, dragging him along, as he protested and hung back.
                  But the homeward flight was pleasanter than the previous walk. Harry was funny and good-humored humored just then, if he was obstinate, and he made so light of Mrs. Scarborough's tremendous vision, that, finally, Helen laughed too, and they reached the house in a gale of spirits, to find Mrs. Latimer returned from the city and wondering what kept them, and Mr. Latimer decidedly put out. But who could be cross with Helen when she was bright and blithe as the merriest little maiden. She would not think any more of that unlucky kiss.
                  Tea was ready and they gathered around the well rubbed and shining mahogany. Such waffles, chipped beef, sweetmeats, melon, shrimps, potted veal, baked apples—delicious medley!
                  "Claudia, did you find a resting-place for Miss Patty's frisette," asked Helen, as she passed her cousin's cup to her.
                  "Oh, yes! such a stuffy old place—she will feel perfectly at home. I saw the happy dwellers under the roof of the widow Thompson, at their tea. They are all women. They all wear caps, except a few who have neither hair nor caps—too young, they think to look old, and too old, to retain their chevelure. I wish, ma'am," to Mrs. Latimer, "you could see the 'fly-boys,' at work. They prance up and down with long green branches, skirmishing vigorously, and occasionally shouting 'High, high.' I think their attacks were particularly directed at the heads and shoulders of the guests. I saw one of them (there were two), pound Mrs. Curtis till I really felt for the old lady."
                  "And where else did you go?"
                  "I met Laura Mildmay, and she invited me, as we were just passing her house, to come in and see her. Why did you never tell me about their house, Nelly? why it is a study—a work of art?"
                  "I have not seen it lately."
                  "In the first place it has so neat a yard that Laura says she confidently expects to find some day that her mother has cleaned it all away, the raking and sweeping are so constant and so thorough. You enter by a plank walk, through a grove of little plum-trees, and find the door flanked on either side by a tiny flower-bed as big as Uncle William's pocket handkerchief. The parlor is long and narrow with a low ceiling. It had originally no chimney and a master mason informed Mrs. Mildmay that no chimney could be built without breaking down the walls, so, like a woman of genius, she hired a negro workman of no reputation, and together ther they fabricated a capital fire-place, which has proved perfectly satisfactory. Encouraged by this success, Mrs. Mildmay's ambition, and industry, and invention, have accomplished the most marvellous additions and improvements. There is a Gothic glass window stuck 'promiscuous-like;' a closet, which consists of a board or two pulled out under the roof, queer staircases which lead to queerer apartments, and in short, it is a wonder of a house."
                  "Is it comfortable?" asked Mrs. Latimer.
                  "Comfortable! the very picture of comfort, and pretty too. The walls of the parlor are lined with pictures and engravings—the frames, of shells and seaweed. The windows have cornices of the same, and there are bursts of fancy in the shape of unimaginable chairs and sofas. I admired everything so much and was so vastly amused, that Laura took me up-stairs. There was her room, with an improvised balcony beside one window, from which she can play Juliet, on occasion. It was cheerful, bright and neat, as freshness and hands could make it. In the angle of one corner, she suddenly opened to my unfeigned amazement, a little strip of an observatory, two feet long and two inches wide, which she was pleased to call a 'window.' 'Surely,' I said, when I could speak for laughing, 'you cut that out with a penknife; and what it is for?" 'This corner,' she answered, was the safe retreat of millions of mosquitoes; they retired here with a perfect disregard of brushes, and the fiercest attacks, so mother called in the aid of that valuable individual, Joe the carpenter, and now, the wind rushes through and scatters my bloodthirsty enemies.' Then she showed me her brother's room, next to hers; it is the size of the piano; so, to let in the air, there are indiscriminate holes punched here and there, for free circulation."
                  "But the rain, my dear Claudia, don't the rain come in?" asked Mr. Latimer, helping himself to another slice of melon.
                  "Laura solemnly assured me that not a drop ever penetrates that 'charmed mansion.' But you have not heard of the crowning feature of the establishment. Mrs. Harris, Laura's sister, has a white nurse for her children; she is spending the summer with the Mildmays, and there was no room for the nurse. Mrs. Mildmay gave an hour's thought to the emergency, and lo! an apartment was found. Above the staircase leading to Laura's room was placed a large shelf, midway between the stairs and the roof; there is space for a bed and a box, with a window, 'giving' upon the south shed two feet from this couch; so, like Mahomet's coffin, 'twix't heaven and earth,' there, nightly reposes the fair Hibernian, and a rail is inserted after she gets in, across the window, lest she should, in troubled dreams, precipitate herself through the casement."
                  "And how does she mount to her lofty retreat?"
                  "Another invention! a little ladder lies in a corner to be used when needed, and for fear that just as she is climbing, indiscreet eyes may be conveying themselves up the staircase, her ankles are protected, by a strip of calico, lining the under side of the ladder. Now fancy all this as neat as if fairies dwelt there, fill the house with a cheerful, merry family, clever, cultivated, amusing and most united and affectionate, and tell me if it is not worth several visits."
                  "It should be sung in story," said Helen, rising and ordering out the card-table, for her father's nightly game of whist, and so the evening ended.
                  Rupert Leslie came down the next day to chaperone
                     peron his sister and his cousin to the hop. He was a good, heavy young man.
                  "I hope you don't find it a trouble to go with the girls?" asked his aunt.
                  "Not much."
                  "Do you like dancing, Rupert?"
                  "Don't see anything to like in it."
                  "I am afraid, then, you will find it a bore to go to-night?"
                  "I don't mind being bored."
                  "Aren't you fond of ladies' society, Rupert?" inquired Mr. Latimer.
                  "When they don't talk too much."
                  "Oh! you like silent belles?"
                  "Not too silent, for I haven't got anything to say to girls." There was a pause.
                  "Have you read Macaulay, Rupert?"
                  "Old Peter Macauley, sir, down Market street? I never knew he wrote anything."
                  "Of course you have read 'Pickwick'"
                  "Claudia gave me a book with a name like that, but it put me to sleep."
                  "How is cotton selling?"
                  "I declare, sir, I heard old Danvers say this morning, but whether it was high or low, I've forgotten. It was one or t'other. They keep me marking bales, till I wish there wasn't a cotton plant this side of the Atlantic."
                  After which long reply, Rupert visibly yawned and walked into the piazza.
                  "My dear Margaret," said his uncle, following his retreating figure, with a steady gaze, "I am afraid that if Rupert is not a wag, he is a very dull fellow."
                  "I don't see much wag in him," answered Mrs. Latimer, expressively.
                  The Ocean House was brilliantly gay this night: its three large dancing-rooms were thronged, and in the piazza sat parties of spectators, too lazy to dress for the occasion or too shabby to buy a bottle wine, which at supper was the only expense of the entertainment, or too strait-laced to join in an amusement which they were by no means averse to witnessing—or too dreadfully doubtful about their position to risk bringing their gentility in contact with humbler people, or too delighted to be critical and censorious upon the participants, without exposing themselves to like remarks.
                  The music was fine, the sea-breeze invigorating, and there were not two greater belles than Claudia Leslie and Helen Latimer. Their dresses were nearly alike and quite original in their ornaments.
                  Both wore white muslins, fresh and crisp; similar belts of gold bullion encircled each round waist, and a narrow golden band confined Claudia's dark braids, and was almost lost in the glitter of Helen's shining curls. But whereas Claudia's wreath and skirt trimmings were clusters of ripe rice, falling in its heavily graceful, natural curves, Helen had the wild-oats, which adorn the sand-hills, mixed with the feathery growth of the asparagus, forming the prettiest bouquets of green and pale gold.
                  They were soon surrounded by eager partners. Oh! the youths of those days: there are none equal to them now. Where is there a man like Charles Lawrence? His friends will remember him. I see his handsome head lifting itself above the crowd: his dark eyes brightly flashing, his gay laugh borne upon the summer breeze, his ready wit, his sparkling smile, his kindly tone making him welcome to every group and every circle. Playful as a child, saucy as a girl, strong as a man, his wonderful beauty first attracted and then his noble qualities and social gifts, retained the ever-growing interest. He is gone. Cut down before he had reached his prime, at the age of twenty-seven Charles Lawrence's glorious form was laid in a bloody grave. But who guessed that fatal end to-night, when passing through the crowd, he bent admiringly before the charming cousins, and spoke his welcome and his homage?
                  They received him with beaming smiles and winning words. And not him alone—face after face flits before me as I write. For instance, Richard Allen Ash! The purest, the kindest, the noblest gentleman! A heart so warm, so frank! a spirit so genial, so true! A little of the old-fashioned courtliness of the past century,—that went out with powder and red-heels—distinguished his carriage. Thorough-bred he was, with all the simple hospitality of a gentle and unostentatious nature. In him society lost an ornament and a protector: amid the crowd of busy men, too occupied to give their time to such matters, he had both the fortune and the taste which permitted and enabled him to do so much for Art and manners. Gazing back, I look upon a long line of my chivalric countrymen. Some, like these I name, are dead, some are married, some have sought their fortunes in distant lands—all are gone.
                  
                  "The first waltz and second quadrille are yours, Harry," whispered Helen.
                  He nodded. He was looking for something—somebody rather. Could it be the lady who now airily entered—sliding her dainty feet over the floor as if it were her natural throne and these her subjects?
                  Bertha St. Clair, in a sea-green dress—she delighted in wearing colors that few complexions could venture upon—sailed past all those women who hated her for her superiority, and pretended that they despised her.
                  She put up her glass and surveyed the room, held out her pretty hand to some of her acquaintances, bowed to others, smiled from a distance to a few more. She chatted vivaciously, with a dancing light in her eyes, and an occasional gesture and quick movement of her soft, white arms.
                  "Did you know that she was to be here?" asked Helen.
                  "I thought she might, perhaps, if you mean Mrs. St. Clair," said Harry, carelessly.
                  He did not move from Helen's side. He really did not care for Mrs. St. Clair, except through his vanity; and, after his fashion, he did love Helen.
                  He was in a good humor at this moment, and until some trifle aroused him, he would not tease or hurt Nelly.
                  Walter James asked for the ensuing dance, and while waiting for it, they went into the piazza. A tall, finely formed girl was slowly pacing its length, among other promenaders. Her back was turned, but Helen recognized Maria Scarborough.
                  "It is Maria, is it not?" she asked her companion.
                  "Yes, and a funny thing happened just now. One of the Wilmots, whose plantation joins Mr. Scarborough's, on the Santee, was introduced to the 'statue.' She measured him disdainfully with her little light eyes, as he recalled the fact that they had known each other as children. 'I have heard of a family of Wilmots near us,' she said, indifferently. Tom colored up—'I should think you had—we have little pasture land on our place, and we always bought milk from your grandmother, old Mrs. Chester.' I think if a look could have murdered him, Maria would have 'done the deed' that instant. All the Scarborough aristocratic blood boiled at this allusion to the plebeian Chester from whom the money comes."
                  
                  "I think it was not very polite of Mr. Tom Wilmot, and are not you ashamed to laugh?"
                  "Oh! who can stand that girl's airs?"
                  "Anybody who appreciates her cleverness," replied Helen, as she touched the fair shoulder, whose mistress they had now overtaken.
                  Miss Scarborough turned, peered for a moment with affected hesitation at Nelly, tossed up her head with its very auburn braids, and with a supercilious "good evening" passed on.
                  Helen stood motionless and amazed, with her hand half extended, then the color rushed into her face with sudden violence and she sat down, stunned.
                  "Don't mind her," said Walter. "What is amiss between you?"
                  "Nothing," and then Helen remembered, and blushed still deeper.
                  Mr. James talked of a thousand things and rattled on. The first bars of the quadrille sounded.
                  "I would rather not dance."
                  "Then, let us sit here," and Helen thankfully assented, and was so glad, in the midst of her deep annoyance and distress, that she had such a cheerful, kind companion as Walter. Poor Helen!
                  The quadrille ended, and then came Harry's waltz—but it was half played before he stalked up to them.
                  "Where have you been?" she timidly asked.
                  "Nowhere. I thought you were better employed."
                  "Oh, Harry! don't be jealous and teasing, now," and then she hurriedly told him, as they went in, of what had occurred. Instead of sympathy, he was only thinking of her having sat in the piazza with Mr. James.
                  "What else was I to do?"
                  "I wished that quadrille."
                  "Then, why didn't you tell me so? I had to offer you the dances myself."
                  "You might have guessed it!"
                  "Guessed it?" and Helen sighed.
                  "Helen! if I loved you less, I might be less jealous, as you call it." Then he went over the same old ground which they had a thousand times traversed—selfishly upbraiding her, and yet so seriously unhappy in his folly, that poor Nelly ended by thinking, as she had often done, that it was somehow her fault that her father refused his consent.
                  
                  It was a melancholy waltz. Helen's feet mechanically performed their duty, and her pliant, graceful figure floated along unmindful that her young brow was grave and overshadowed. As soon as Harry saw that she was thoroughly out of spirits, then he regained his own. But it was too late now to bring back genuine smiles to her pretty lips; however, chance aided him, for stopping near her after a turn, Helen overheard Mrs. St. Clair say, "Somebody has been distressing that poor child."
                  Pity from Mrs. St. Clair—never! Helen's smiles became frequent, as they were forced. Life's troubles—the first trivial troubles which, to a youthful heart, are weighty as great sorrows—were gathering around Helen Latimer. She began to see how false had been her estimate of Trevor's capabilities to make her happiness—she did not acknowledge it, but she already felt it. He was kinder now, and poured out professions of the deepest nature. If he ever wounded her, it was from his overwhelming love; and Helen believed, in her simplicity, that there is a "love" which shows itself by torturing, distressing, and working hourly and daily upon the feelings of the loved one! This picture is not overdrawn. There are many such men as Harry Trevor, and I have heard them praised for their honesty and their profound sentiments.
                  She was preparing to go into the dancing-room again, when the second quadrille began.
                  "Of course," Harry petulantly said, "you sit out in this cool, quiet piazza and talk to James during his dance, but you drag me in to stand up and dawdle through a quadrille with all those cursed fools, when my turn comes!"
                  "Dearest Harry!" remonstrated Helen, "it was only necessary to say what you wished—to hint it!"
                  "One hates to be always obliged to say what one wishes."
                  No reply from the wearied Helen, who only stifled back a retort, and then presently made some kind speech. The cloud disappeared again, but can anything be more heart-searing than an incessant necessity for dispersing such uncalled-for clouds? Better that they should gather heavier and heavier, break and end at once—blot out forever the glory of that sunshine which should reign between two natures seeking to merge into one.
                  
                  To-night, after this, there was an unbroken gleam, actually lasting two hours. When Helen danced with others, Harry's tall figure planted itself somewhere near her, watching with delighted eyes her every movement. He had not a glance for any other woman.
                  "Was there ever a man so much in love as Trevor?" several people remarked.
                  "And she is such a flirt, too!" was the occasional rejoinder, because poor Nelly liked to please, and her eyes smiled on all comers a charming welcome and gave a listening attention to the dullest. But so the world judges.
                  Helen saw a long colloquy, just after supper, between Mrs. Scarborough and Claudia Leslie.
                  She was a little alarmed, and yet almost satisfied.
                  "If Mrs. Scarborough is telling Claudia about what she saw, Claudia will manage to let her guess the truth, and exculpate me," Helen thought.
                  The last dance was ended, shawls were in requisition, gay adieus uttered, and the "most brilliant hop of the season" was over.
                  As they drove home, Rupert, who had happily passed his evening unnoticed, in a corner of the piazza, gave one of his great yawns, and said,
                  "Claudia, what was that Walter James was saying about a boat?"
                  "Oh, Rupert!" cried his sister, "don't stretch out your immense feet in that way: you have sent both of them right through my dress, you careless boy!"
                  "It is not my feet—Harry is sitting opposite to you—why don't you attack him? You are always pitching into me. I never saw such a woman."
                  Harry gravely disclaimed, and entered into a low-voiced conversation with Helen, who was leaning back, a little tired but quite happy. He was unusually tender in his tones, and treated Claudia with marked coldness—so marked, that Helen was surprised and not pleased. All that touched Claudia was so near to her.
                  The two girls shared the same room, and as soon as they had noiselessly wished good-night to the young men, and crept up-stairs, "lest they should disturb papa and mamma," Helen eagerly asked:
                  "What was Mrs. Scarborough saying to you, Claudia?" And then she mentioned Maria's reception.
                  "I am so sleepy," said Claudia—"wait till tomorrow."
                  
                  "No. I wish very much to hear it now—think how worried I have been."
                  "Well, if you must know, Mrs. Scarborough chooses to think you a very—a—strange sort of girl—and told me so."
                  "Told you so," cried Helen, crimsoning, "and what did you say?"
                  "What could I say? I didn't dare to speak of your sort of engagement, for fear of Uncle William; and that was not all—yesterday's adventure—that she had against you. All sorts of foolish things"——.
                  "Foolish things?"
                  "Yes—a quantity of stories, trumped up about you. She said she did not think you really improper, but you were not a suitable companion for her Maria. I could have beaten the old wretch for her insolence!"
                  "Well?" Helen said, growing colder and colder.
                  "My dear Nell, I said all I could, but you know you have often done imprudent things; and then that saucy tongue of yours makes many enemies. I never heard you attempt to deny either fact, so how could I?"
                  "How could you indeed!" repeated Helen, bitterly terly, "and she called you up just to tell you these things, which you could not deny?"
                  "Nelly, you are unreasonable—what difference can it make to you what Mrs. Scarborough thinks or says of you? Everybody knows that she is jealous of you about Maria."
                  "Did she call you up only to tell you these things, which you could not deny?" repeated Helen.
                  "And to ask me to join a water-party to-morrow afternoon," added Claudia, reluctantly.
                  Helen's cheek grew pale as she went on,
                  "Whose boat?" remembering Rupert's interrupted question.
                  "Walter James'."
                  "And does he know?" faltered Helen.
                  "Know what?"
                  "That I am excluded!"
                  "I—I—I believe so. Dear Nell, don't take a trifle so seriously." And Claudia laid her false, delicate hand upon Helen's quivering shoulder.
                  Helen shook it off, shuddering as if it had been a snake, and then lifted her eyes with one searching, serious, sad, wistful look to her cousin's face—the cousin she had so fondly loved—the only sister she had ever really known.
                  
                  Claudia's own eyes sank; she began to remove the drooping rice-ears from her hair, talking rapidly.
                  "I remonstrated with Mrs. Scarborough—I told her how angry and hurt you would be."
                  "Better and better," murmured Helen, scornfully.
                  "She said you had no right to be angry, because it was not a general party, only a sociable picnic, where one had the liberty to choose just whom they pleased, and she didn't care if you were. Then I urged that you were so much more intimate with Maria than I; but she said that it was not a party of Maria's intimates, but of her friends. And so I would not say any more—could I say any more, Nell?"
                  "Scarcely," Helen said in a voice so broken, so husky, so fierce; "you could scarcely lower your mother's niece much more, or press her claims to consideration much further upon the daughter of old Chester, the—the——Did it not for one moment strike you, the insult to yourself?" she asked, abruptly.
                  "No," said Claudia mildly. "And when you are calmer, Helen, you will see how much you wrong me, and how very unnecessarily you dwell upon this business. I see that it was only a compliment tendered to me which was not offered to you. Good night." She actually was about to kiss her cousin. Helen drew back, and Claudia quietly went to bed, perfectly satisfied with herself.
                  Helen sat for hours at the window—the candle burned low, flickered, went out. Poor Helen! That night had done the work of years. Claudia's love, and Walter James' friendship! Let who will, picture her desolation—her first dearly bought knowledge that this is the world, and these are the world's acts. "But what object have they? what object?" she repeated over and again. Mrs. Scarborough never entered her thoughts—Mrs. Scarborough's enmity, ill-will, were nothing. But that Walter James should lend himself to such a mean little plot against her——that Claudia should join it! Her cousin and her friend!
                  The tired head dropped upon the window-sill, and when the first streak of dawn lighted the horizon, and its reflection upon the calm, slowly beating waves struck upon her closed eyelids, she opened them to the strange fact that she had been sleeping. Chilled and miserable, she threw off her clothes, crept into her bed, and slept again the profound sleep of exhausted nature.
                  It was nine o'clock when she a second time awoke—the room was empty. Claudia had dressed herself, and was gone. Helen's first consciousness was that "something had happened;" then, her mind reverted to the previous night, and she felt crushed anew by the recollection.
                  On descending to the dining-room, she found her plate and cup waiting for her at the end of the table, her mamma's voice called from the pantry that she should have her breakfast in a moment, and she saw Claudia slowly pacing the piazza with Mr. Latimer.
                  With an effort she joined them, received her papa's morning kiss, and turned abruptly from her cousin's salutation.
                  "Claudia has been talking to me, my little Nell," said Mr. Latimer. "She says that you are offended with her, because she has accepted an invitation which has not been extended to you. You are a little too exacting, daughter. I consider Mrs. Scarborough a very insignificant person, and her parties equally so. I think Claudia very right to go, because she thus shows the lady that we are perfectly indifferent to her and to her entertainments."
                  "Has Claudia likewise told you," asked Helen, in a husky voice, "on what Mrs. Scarborough founds her dislike to me?"
                  "Yes."
                  "And do you intend, papa, to suffer me to stay under such unworthy suspicions?"
                  "Gently, gently, my Helen. I do not think that you need any defence or explanation. I consider Mrs. Scarborough's opinion of no sort of consequence. Those who know you, know your worth, and will easily conjecture that there is no truth in any idle tale which the gossip of this very gossiping and scandalous city circulates incessantly. Depend upon it, more harm than good is done by probing into such matters. Live down foolish stories."
                  "And the—the—what occurred on the beach?" Helen said, reluctantly, blushing scarlet, and turning away her head.
                  "It but confirms my opinion of some people," Mr. Latimer answered, sternly. "I do not blame you, Helen; but I have expressly desired that a certain person should never forget that you are not affianced. It may be my 'whim.' I do not approve of long engagements—I will permit none—you will marry three weeks after I give my consent to your marriage—until that time, you are not engaged. I trusted you both. I repeat before your cousin what I have told you—I do not approve of Harry Trevor as your husband. I will not thwart you, I will not control you further than this. I mean to let you find out for yourself how unsuitable you are. You shall not be 'crossed in love'—Heaven forbid; but with your own free will and excellent judgment, you will, I am convinced, eventually come to my way of thinking. I am prejudiced against breaking a betrothal—none shall exist or be hinted at, so long as I hold the opinion of both of you that I do. Say no more, my daughter," kissing her, "and make friends with Claudia."
                  "I am not unfriendly to Claudia," Helen said, coldly, walking away. There is no denying it—she was very, very angry. Her very soul rebelled against her father. He was unjust, and in this case ruled by Claudia's plausibility. She saw only unkindness to herself in the view he took of her cousin's conduct, and his dislike of Harry.
                  She seated herself sullenly at the breakfast-table; she felt bitter and aggrieved, but her mother's kind face, as she kindly embraced the, and gave her a long note, came as a great consolation.
                  "Harry left it for you, deary; he was up very early to write it. Drink your coffee first."
                  Helen shook her head and sprang up-stairs; but suddenly remembering that the good mother would wait patiently upon her, she ran down again; and holding her precious letter fast in one hand, ate two mouthfuls and swallowed her coffee.
                  "I love you, mamma," she whispered, straining her to her heart, and the tears gushed from her eyes. Two minutes more and she was devouring the dear epistle.
                  "My own Helen," the letter said, "I know you will be sad this morning, so I wish to leave a few words for you, hoping that they may prove a comfort. I would stay myself, gladly, as you know, but I should not be welcome to your father, who doubtless thinks a two days' visit an eternity to satisfy us. What did I tell you of C. L.? isn't she 'as false as she is fair.' I always distrusted those
                     steely eyes of hers—but I own that Walter James' behavior surprises me. I never suspected him of caring too little for you. I write, presuming that you know of their precious party for this afternoon. J. had the impudence to tell me that Mrs. S., the patroness of the concern, invited me, adding, 'you know, my dear fellow, it is her party.' I very nearly told him to go to the ——, but I didn't. I don't insult you by supposing that it is the pleasure of the entertainment that you will regret, but the sad proof it gives you of the indifference of those for whom you have cared, and the triumph of those Scarboroughs (who wish to annoy you) in being able to carry off so easily your nearest friends. I saw the old wretch buttering up C. last night, and I knew how it would be. C. is only weak through her vanity and her jealousy of you. Don't start: everybody knows, except yourself, that she is jealous of you, although you have passed your life trying to efface yourself for her. And now I want to tell you something else. You don't like Mrs. St. Clair; you are wrong. I wish you could have heard her last night—seen her face—while listening to the conversation between your cousin and Mother S. I never saw such scorn! Do try, my dear Nelly, to get over your prejudice against Mrs. St. Clair—she really likes you, and speaks so kindly, and what she would call 'appreciatively' of you. She said to me, 'A couple of harpies are tearing to pieces a little bird.' Ah! my dearest, dearest Helen, would to Heaven that I had my bird safe in my own nest, and away from all of them. It would not be a very luxurious nest, but if that law-suit terminates favorably, it may be yet. Courage we both need. I know I am cross sometimes, but my 'heart is in the right place,' and I adore, I worship you, Nell. You are the very spirit of my life—you cannot tell how your touch, your voice thrill me. Yet, I know that I often exhibit toward you a testiness, an ill temper, which afterwards make me wretchedly ashamed. I cannot write phrases. I cannot write prettily turned sentences as you do, but I feel as much as a man can feel. And I think that nothing proves my love more than this fact—if others hurt you in word or deed, I then understand, in every fibre of my frame, how thoroughly I am yours. It is nearly time to stop now; the boat goes in fifteen minutes, and your mother summons me. Be true to me, Helen—true to our love. I press you to my heart; it beats for you, you only. When it ceases to do that, it will cease altogether. Ever, ever yours, Harry. Kiss this place , I kiss it now, and try to fancy that it is your fresh, sweet cheek."
                  "Folly, is it not?" said Mrs. Sutherland, tossing down the MS. and burying her head for half a second in her outspread hands. "All love-letters are alike! are they not? To think that you and I may have just such effusions addressed to ourselves, Olivia, and which we may prize as if they meant something! Treasure them up—believe them—read them over and over, never see now silly they are, till some day, when they turn—these bright, golden coins—this fairy money, which bought our very souls—turn to dead leaves in our despairing grasp, and crumble into nothingness!"
                  She sighed, frowned and read on.
                  The day passed drearily enough. Helen was obstinate, and not particularly well-bred on this occasion. She called it hypocrisy to appear polite to her cousin. Mrs. Latimer took no notice of the evident cloud, and Mr. Latimer read all day as usual in his own corner of the piazza. Helen helped her mother in her household duties, practised a great while at the piano, mused a good deal, and comforted herself through the whole, by personal assurance, every half hour, that she had her letter safe.
                  Dinner was a dull meal: Claudia was as calm and cool as usual; she addressed Helen in her accustomed manner, and received very abrupt and ungracious answers, which she met with the air of one too amiable to resent the unkindness and discourtesy offered.
                  Five o'clock came, and "Mrs. Scarborough's carriage for Miss Leslie."
                  "I see Helen," Claudia said, settling her bonnet carefully, "that my presence is disagreeable to you. I shall return to the city, therefore, to-morrow, trusting that your good sense will soon resume its sway, and your good spirits follow suit."
                  Helen fixed her eyes meaningly on the serene face, which the mirror reflected, as this self-satisfied young lady concluded her toilet. Her look was her sole response. It spoke volumes, but Helen had not learned to take sorrow mildly. Anger shook her as much as grief, and contempt flashed and lightened in the gaze, which once never rested but in love and admiration upon this frosty and fair countenance.
                  Miss Leslie, unmoved, said, "Good bye for the present," and swept away.
                  Then the tears rushed, unwished, from the overcharged heart. She thought of all the happy days she had passed with this cherished Claudia, how she had loved her, clung to her, consulted her, relied upon her. Their pursuits, their pleasures, their sorrows and their joys had seemed so linked and interwoven—their lives so close—it was hard to bear such a blow, but it must be borne; and she could not seek her mother's sympathy, for Mrs. Latimer had never ceased to tell her that Claudia was not the friend she thought her—why listen to that always tiresome and unconsoling sentence, "I told you so"—a phrase especially detested by Helen.
                  She dressed and went down to the sitting-room; she was restless—could do nothing. Everything that reminded her of Claudia was distasteful. She took up several books, fluttered their leaves, rejected all, then scattered her songs upon the piano, brushed out of sight her work-box and strip of embroidery, finally sat down and did the worst thing she could do—thought.
                  There came an approaching step—a visitor. She heard the soft flou-flou of a woman's skirts, and tried to escape—too late—Mrs. St. Clair entered.
                  Helen's reception was neither warm nor pleasant; but she had to deal with a determined nature, and the barrier of her pride and dislike soon yielded. Who could resist Bertha St. Clair in her most genial mood?
                  "You think me intrusive, perhaps," the visitor said; "it is early, I know, but I wished to find you at home. Is there not a name I can use as an 'open sesame' between us? We will only hint at it. My dear Miss Latimer, when you are as old as I, you will have learned not to reject an honest expression of kindness and good feeling—come, why should we not be pleasant associates, nay, friends? You interest me—few do that now. I have heard a great deal of you. Some people love dearly to find a patient listener, and you have been the theme for several weeks, of which I might have been jealous, had I not felt that 'magnetic affinity' which assured me that we are destined to be, not rivals, but allies."
                  
                  The gentle, playful tone won its unerring way. To an excitable temperament like Helen's, full of impulse, there was but one step from almost dislike to positive appreciation.
                  "You are really good," she said, "and I feel very much touched by your kindness."
                  "Not in the least kind. Don't be grateful. You cannot think how much I gain. A really agreeable woman to add to my list! and we live in this city! You are a 'treasure trove' to me—may I prove the same to you! Now get your scarf, mantle, whatever you choose, and come to drive, with 'mamma's permission,' of course."
                  Helen readily assented; it was soothing to her wounded feelings to be thus sought and flattered. Deeply hurt by her cousin's behavior, she seemed to feel as if Mrs. St. Clair were the balm with which to heal the bruises.
                  The sea-breeze refreshed her tear-stained cheeks, and Mrs. St. Clair's pleasant voice caressed her ear. After a while, to her own great surprise, Helen found herself talking of her recent troubles. She did not know how it came about—naturally it seemed, and yet she never doubted for an instant that the sympathy was sincere and lasting. Cautiously tiously at first Mrs. St. Clair touched the sensitive wounds, and then, emboldened, they exchanged confidence, and became friends. And however strange and improbable, that friendship, born and sprung to maturity in an hour, has never withered nor decreased. In the gay and lively woman of the world, Helen Latimer found her truest friend; the one who has never faltered, never fallen off, never hesitated before a sacrifice, never diverged from the vows which were never spoken, only expressed by a desire to soothe and comfort, a desire which implies that warm feelings of interest and affection are beneath.
                  The white sails of Walter James' yacht pro tem., were visible in the distance; Helen's eyes singled them out.
                  "You were very good to give up the party for my sake," said she.
                  "The future will repay me, I am sure. Accident made me hear Miss Leslie's conversation with Mrs. Scarborough.
                  "Was Claudia very unkind in speaking of me?"
                  "Not at all. She was very mild. She admitted the truth of what Mrs. Scarborough said, but was sorry that you should suffer from little absurdities dities. That certainly your love of amusement was stronger than your love of what was prudent; that your temper was generous, but your impulses injudicious, and so on; that although she dearly loved you, she could not be blind to your faults.' 'I acknowledge,' Mrs. St. Clair half smiled, 'I acknowledge she said no more than may be strictly true."
                  "And ought that to satisfy me?" asked Helen, indignantly.
                  "Scarcely. If a person joins in condemnation of us, adds to the list of our failings, and gives as justification of his conduct, the truth of his assertions, he only proves that he is ignorant of the first requisition of an honest friend. If our friends begin 'to tell the truth about us,' I should prefer beginning to live with my enemies, for with the latter I should be on my guard, and they could not generally start with such intimate knowledge of my short comings. I do not like, however, to discuss your cousin with you. I have long admired you, Miss Latimer; you have avoided me—don't shake your head—your honesty most attracts me. I did not seek to overhear this conversation; I was sitting next them, they made no secret of their discourse, and its fragments reached me as I tried to listen to Mr. Burgess, who is not very engrossing. I saw pretty well what would ensue, and I said to myself, 'now I will spread my nets for that shy and proud little bird.' Have I caught her?"
                  "Caught and caged," Nelly said.
                  "That is right."
                  "But you will perhaps repent the trouble you have wasted on me; I feel so dull and stupid, so like a cry-baby."
                  "Not like a cry-baby, but like a woman who meets her first real grief. You think perhaps that none have suffered like you—you have met with ingratitude, with a want of affection, with an absence of delicacy that stuns you like a blow, and you fall under it, not without a struggle, but your heart is sore and bruised. I do not blame you—I do not call you childish, I love you the more for your honest sorrow. I cannot restore your cousin to you—it is not in human power to obliterate such trials as these, the scars are always there. Passionate and hasty words can be forgiven—forgotten—they are marks upon the sand, such as these tracings which our wheels are now passing over, made by those boys with their pens of Spanish bayonets—presently comes the rising tide, the wave of oblivion rolls above them—then retires again, leaving all smooth—but a deliberate and unprovoked attack, a calm and cool treachery is like a cut into the very tree of life, the bark meets over it, but the seam is there, and you can place your finger upon the spot, and feel the injury, long after the leaves are dead, the branches withered, and the glory of its existence passed away! Pardon me! I am talking prose-poetry, and very unoriginal and prosy it is!"
                  "Are there many such women in the world?" Helen asked sadly; "and yet it seems so strange to discuss Claudia with you—you, a stranger until to-day!"
                  "Then don't do it."
                  "First, answer my question."
                  "I do not like to do so. Experience comes soon enough to all of us. I cannot decide—I am not wise enough to say, which is the better course in directing those as young as you. I am eight years your senior—should I brush the bloom of confidence from a trusting, youthful, innocent mind, instill suspicion where frankness is so charming ing—ah! that seems cruel. Pray don't ask me."
                  "Why should I?" Helen said despondingly. "I have a bitter and unusual experience."
                  "Not so; if it will comfort you to know that such blows are given every day—that you have not been chosen for especial misery—listen to me. Callous as you see me now, I was the most credulous fool that ever received people and their protestations at their spoken value. I had very little discernment of character, a great deal of étourderie, a blind belief in what I wished to believe, and my impulses were kind. Like the Law, which recognizes no guilt until it be proved, I imagined all the world friendly until they showed themselves the contrary. I had the liveliest and most elastic spirits, saw everything couleur de rose, and meant to be a very happy woman. My heart was open to everybody, and I do not recollect in all my early life an unkind word or speech made unprovoked by me. But, lest you should fancy that I am favoring you with my own apotheosis, see the reverse of the medal. My temper was quick and high—I was not patient under attack, and never failed to hit my hardest if I found myself touched. There was little of apostolic forbearance about me, but if I had hurt the innocent by mistake or misrepresentation, no trouble would stand in the way of offering reparation. I was scarcely as old as you, therefore it is a great while since, that I had for a growling, cynical old bachelor, a very sincere liking, which seemed entirely reciprocal. I had known him from my very childhood; he had patted my head, talked nonsense to me, and as I gradually progressed from 'short dresses' to the dignity of maidenhood, and so on, till I stood his equal on the broad platform of 'a grown woman,' our relations had never suffered even a temporary cloud. He became engaged—a marvel to society. He was engaged to a very young girl—more wonderful still. Did this turn his head, or was he naturally insolent, capricious and insincere? I am sure I do not know, and to puzzle it out has never cost me an hour's thought. But it did surprise me, that when their engagement took place, and they made it their happy task to carry the news into every house, I alone heard from others of these 'joyful tidings,' without hint or word from them; for, although I was living on terms of perfect friendliness and intimacy with him, her case was stronger still. Positive obligations had been rendered by me to her and hers. I pass them lightly over: not even to point my story 'with a weightier moral' shall I dwell on those saddest scenes which made this lady eternally my debtor! They were married, married in the presence of thirty guests, not one of whom bore to both parties the intimate connection that I had had for fifteen years, and yet, singled out as an exception, no invitation was sent to me. Still, this is not the blow. I said nothing—I did nothing—except that I took a malicious pleasure in returning the cards and cake, which were sent to me, as to all the rest of the town, accompanying them with a sublimely polite note to the effect that I hastened to rectify a mistake, as of course this 'civility' was not meant for me. It was a magnificent little note," Mrs. St. Clair added, laughing mischievously.
                  "And what did they do? feel ashamed of themselves?"
                  "Ashamed! my dear child. They were indignant, aggrieved, insulted; and as they had a country seat across the river, and I had none—as they had more money than I—the whole city joined with them, and thought me very outrageously rude and unkind; and yet, there were twenty people at least, who had heard this man speak impertinently of me. The very person who told me that I owed the slight to monsieur and not to madame, who acknowledged that it was intended, that 'he had a serpent's tongue, and hesitated at nothing when I was in question, and bade me beware of him,' adding, 'she is weak, but not wicked, and understands well her obligations to you,' left me, to go and dine with the bridal party."
                  "Never!" exclaimed Helen. "Impossible!"
                  "Patience, patience, dear Miss Latimer. This speaker was no near friend of mine—she had never answered to the same name to which I had been born; we did not spring from the same stock, we had not passed through life hand in hand, we had not wept our sorrows together, nor felt our few joys in common; she was not dearer to me than every other human thing," the tears started to Mrs. St. Clair's eyes. "See how foolish I am! I wish to comfort you—I wish to show you a parallel case to your own, and bid you bear it as stoically as I, and just the recollection upsets me! I will hurry it over. There was a person who was all this to me, that I have described; she is dead now, why recall it or her. Suffice it, I looked to her for sympathy, and she told me I was absurd, exacting; and, because this 'happy couple' flattered her, and, to sharpen their intentions against me, singled her out for especial notice, she called them her 'friends,' and I lost mine. Yes, it was very sad—very, very sad. 'Each heart knoweth its own bitterness.' At first, I could not bow my head and drink my cup, remembering that trials come to all, and strength to those who seek it. But what trifles, in appearance, make or mar our lives! This one action, performed by really insignificant creatures, destroyed illusion, belief, confidence. I saw no honesty nor sincerity upon earth. It left its print very long upon me; it is here still—I am not what I was, I never can be; but time has softened the first impression. Then I was soured, full of suspicion, alone, very bitter. The glorious sun did not shine, it seemed to me, with the unbroken radiance of the past; it glittered—it did not warm. I missed my earthly sunshine—the certainty that I was loved and cherished. I saw everything giving place to 'convenience,' to worldly reasoning,' and was it because my eyes were the eyes of a child—my understanding, the understanding of a child— that these things seemed so new and strange to me? I often wonder if every human being has a waking up like mine?"
                  "I have had," said Helen, gently.
                  "That is true. How selfishly I have wandered off! I wished to comfort you, and I am talking vaguely on, and recalling my own sorrows only, when I wished to show you that most of us have the same. It is very sad, but it is Life. Hard, grinding, bitter life. The mighty, the incessant struggle which goes on from sunrise until sunrise; the constant, eager grasp and pressing forward to gain a little or a greater prize. Money, or influence, or position—something, in a word, which puts you above your neighbor. Women suffering through their affections, men through their purses. The sister who has held your hand locked in hers for years, will coolly disengage it, if she can rise a step by quitting your side—the parent will disregard the claim of the child for personal aggrandizement or to save trouble—the friend will bow you politely to a distance if society, or fortune, or éclat will reward his treachery—the lover will desert his mistress to whom he is bound by every sacred tie, by every solemn vow, if his love interferes with his ambition—and so the world goes, and we go with it; and perhaps I, who now condemn it, will live to do likewise, and you who weep for it, will cause tears to flow, in your turn, from younger and simpler eyes, when these truths have walled-up and hardened your fresh sensibilities and taught you the strong lessons of which you are now conning the A B C. Selfishness is the great monster, the great Saturn which swallows up every generous new-born feeling. Selfishness is the great idol we disclaim, and worship. You won't believe it now: you will in time. There is a proverb which says, 'Live with your friend, as if he may one day be your enemy—with your enemy as if he may one day be your friend.' For you, trusting, confiding, frank as you are, remember the saying, and remember its foundation is, on both sides, the selfishness of poor human nature. Forgive me. I have delivered an oration—I have passed the bounds of conversational privilege. I have tired you."
                  "No; but you have given a frightful picture—a dark picture. Has earth no aspect but this?"
                  "To my mind and my knowledge, none; but there is a heaven, and to gain it we must bear with this earth and its belongings, and practise that divine pardon by which we can alone reach it. I am not what is called a religious woman—until I am, these things will fret me; and, despite my gay exterior, there is a fearful depth of gloom, a heavy weight of inner sadness, over which I have, after all, such a thin crust of callousness and gaiety, that you must not tread incautiously upon it. It will break through. Let us talk of something else."
                  So began the friendship of Bertha St. Clair and Helen Latimer.
                  "And it has lasted?" Olivia asked.
                  "It has lasted."
                  "Then she disproves what she advanced."
                  "Like the philosopher who contradicted himself when he said, that there was one thing that he knew, and that was, that he knew nothing?"
                  "Yes. Either these well-turned periods were false to human nature, or she is too far above human nature to be human, by her own showing."
                  "As you please. She would tell you that hers was but a selfish love, for Helen's society was only preferred by her to any one else's, because it chanced to remain preferable—she never found an opportunity of bettering herself by sacrificing Nelly."
                  "Well, go on. I am anxious about poor Helen. I see she is destined to be unhappy. She took the world too hard. She ought to have snapped her fingers in Claudia's face—cut Walter James very coolly and without noise—and I am very sure she should have dismissed Harry Trevor; for if Mrs. St. Clair wanted a model for her imaginative world-idol, Selfishness, he could have sat for it. Go on What happened next?"
                  "You must accept my words again, unwritten, for the MS. needs another filling up. Let me recollect. The summer passed uneventfully, but not happily. There was coolness between Helen and her father; she resented, very undutifully, his views about Claudia and about Harry; she missed Claudia's companionship, but she would not seek it, nor even accept it. Mrs. St. Clair was very kind, but she was not Claudia. Helen's mind was too undisciplined, too uncontrolled to be independent of outward things; she did not 'possess her soul' with that calmness which, if time and sorrow do not produce it, must leave the unfortunate nate victim miserable indeed. She clung to Harry Trevor's love—ah, me! Her natural regrets for the loss of her cousin angered him very soon. 'You should not feel any loss of any affection while we are both alive. My heart should be enough for you. If you loved me as you ought, you would not feel this thing so deeply,' he would say. Not that he showed any diminution of his old jealousies and exactions, in consideration of her evident want of spirits. On the contrary, having her entirely to himself, sharing no longer a divided empire, seeing that the confidence she had formerly reposed in Claudia, and now withdrawn, made him the sole director of this very weak, and yet clever little girl, he only strengthened his chains, augmented the size and weight of the clasps, drew them tighter, tighter still, and, in a word, tyrannized over Helen with a lordly despotism under which she sank each day. In fact, Nelly was born, I suppose, to be imposed upon and to be ruthlessly ruled—up to a certain point and period of her existence. She could be self-willed enough—insolent enough in her pretty coquetry, but she was a bully, no doubt of it—and if she felt a stronger hand grasping her own, her courage fled, and she was conquered.
                  "Mrs. Latimer, in everything else the best of mothers, the most devoted and fond of mothers, never suffered Nelly to complain of Trevor—never would admit that he was hard upon the poor child, and never seemed to see, in fact, that he had assumed a husband's authority, exerted to its utmost limit, while he was yet unauthorized by her father to be even considered the betrothed lover of Miss Latimer.
                  "Helen did not guess the reason of her mother's deep-rooted predilections; she accepted, therefore, her admonitions to be patient and submissive to Harry's humors, thinking that 'mamma must know best,' particularly as this 'best,' in a measure, coincided with her own wishes; but her gay spirit imperceptibly lost forever, day by day, its early freshness. Like the butterfly's wing, held however lightly, you cannot hold a heart for your own pleasure between your fingers, and not brush the down from its delicate surface. Let it struggle or let it lie quiet, it is all the same, the mischief is done. You loose the trembling thing; it is gone—see it fluttering in the distance—now it stoops to that flower, and the full sunshine is upon it, and it is as brightly beautiful, apparently, as some minutes since; but you know, and it knows, that, however the rest of the world may admire it, it is no longer what it was. Its glorious coloring is irremediably dimmed—see your fingers—you can trace the dark line left by its presence, a drop of water will efface the mark on you—you, who did the mischief, but the poor butterfly will carry your impression till its day of life is ended! And yet you were only amusing yourself! or perhaps, like Trevor, you were studying the nice intricacies of the butterfly's attractions, and testing their worth.——Stop me, Olivia, when I grow diffuse. You are such a patient and charming listener—as good a one as Helen was to Bertha St. Clair.
                  "Yes—in those days, Bertha talked a great deal to Helen; such quantities of good advice, such sterling moral sentences that giddy young woman gathered together for her still younger friend. She set her foot down very soon, and tried to bring Nelly's slipper in a line with hers, against the encroachments of Mr. Trevor. 'My dear,' she would say, 'ten husbands would not try to rule you as strictly and as phlegmatically as your adoring admirer. And the evil grows—it grows—I see it growing like the seeds that Elfrida—Serena? or what was her name?—took from the golden box and planted for the amusement of her little visitor from the outer world, who wandered into the "Elve's-land." Cut it down—deftly and gently as you choose—but down it must come, or you will never have a glimpse of light, to shine through its branches, before long.'
                  "Harry discovered that Mrs. St. Clair disapproved of his mode of love-making, and he was very fierce in his wrath to Nelly, and very cool to the other lady; but Bertha asked him to dine, wore such a charming dress and was so very charming, that he forgot his indignation, and found himself watching the sparkling eyes and sarcastic scarlet lips of the lively lady. In fact, had he been encouraged, he would have renewed his old flirtation; but Bertha was true to Helen, and not even vanity, which it must be confessed bore so extensive a part in her composition, could ever tempt her to give real pain to any one."
                  "And he would have flirted, had he been able to do so, with Mrs. St. Clair, and yet, you pretend to defend him? My dearest Sylvia! what sort of creature do you call Mr. Trevor?"
                  
                  "A man, my child—nothing else—nothing better, nothing worse."
                  "Do you take him as a type of man?"
                  "Not precisely: circumstances act on women as well as men, and make them usually what they are. In fact, there is a theory that all human beings produce in those with whom they are thrown in contact, certain results; that is, you yourself call out certain qualities, which but for your influence would not exist."
                  "Then people are only chameleons who reflect, and have no positive coloring of their own?"
                  "In a measure."
                  "I don't believe it. Such a theory is absurd and unfounded."
                  "Well; I am no reasoner—no philosopher—no metaphysician. I only firmly believe that without intending it, without knowing it, Helen Latimer always did, and always would, bring out people's worst qualities. She was honest and truthful—loved honesty and truth, sought them, needed them, longed for them, and never found them, except in instances so rare and infrequent that the exception proved the rule. Take your choice: either the world is full of deception, hypocrisy, falsehood, or else my theory is true."
                  "She was in fault somehow; perhaps she was not honest and true. I have my doubts about her."
                  "Perhaps you are right," Mrs. Sutherland said, smiling. "She thought herself so, at any rate, and blundered about for a long time, without Diogenes' lantern and without his incredulity. How many raps she got on her poor, bewildered, confiding head! She was always mistaking a brick wall for a cushion of down—a low, grovelling, unworthy prickly pear, for a superb cactus. I make no doubt, she incessantly fell into the opposite extreme, and many a soft pillow on which she could have reposed her aching brow, was elaborately avoided as a wall in disguise. Don't laugh at her; she was the sufferer. But to resume, Helen lacked 'pluck;' and weakly yielding to Trevor's encroachments, she fostered his tyrannical tendencies, till he learned to think her occasional complaints unreasonable and wearisome. True,—he was ungenerous, but her blind confidence and alternate exactions and yielding showed him her weakness and made him what he was.
                  
                  "To you, Olivia, who know nothing of lovers except what novels tell you, it is no wonder that you open your eyes and are surprised at this picture. When an engagement lasts but a little while, no doubt the happy fiancé gives himself up to being ruled, knowing that his day is coming, but no man like Trevor abdicates his power for two, three, four years—and besides, with true manly justice, he made Nelly pay for the irritation he felt at their constrained position. Yes, he was a thorough man. To him belonged, liberty, freedom of thought and action—he must be pitied and condoled with—soothed and comforted—take every relaxation within his grasp—come and go unquestioned—met with a smile—and for her, the reverse of all this; the only consolation and support tendered her, an assurance of his love, given between two reproaches."
                  "Stop, Sylvia, for Heaven's sake. How shall I ever bring myself to marry if I believe all this?"
                  "You are not Helen Latimer—you don't believe my theory; and besides, if you are in love, you will never perceive the truth of the treasons I utter, until"——
                  "Until?"
                  "Until, that process I spoke of takes place, until the fairy coin turns into the dead leaf. And after all, perhaps, it is neither your fault nor his, and the miracle has been wrought (like the one which cost poor Esmeralda her life) by the intervention of some foreign hand. Did you hear the clock? One. Not sleepy yet?"
                  "Pray go on."
                  "Where was I? I warn you, there are no great events like milestones to mark our progress on Helen Latimer's life-journey. She celebrated her twentieth birthday in September, and Harry was very kind for a whole week. Claudia sent a birthday gift. Claudia was the severest practitioner of certain forms of politeness. I am convinced that if she were doomed to eternal perdition; she would never fail, in torment, to wish Satan 'good morning.' Helen's impulse was to return the present; but even her mother interposed, and there was a hollow truce, and the girls resumed an outward appearance of cordiality, and had it not been for Harry, who, you know, detested Claudia, I make no doubt Nell would have fallen into the old intimacy, and been duped over and over, as usual."
                  
                  "My dear, excuse the interruption—don't you consider Helen rather a simpleton?"
                  "Did you ever doubt it? I thank you, in her absence, for the implied compliment of not finding it out sooner. The winter came; Nelly went to pass some weeks with Mrs. St. Clair—short, happy, fleeting weeks; again, in the spring—and now it is that I resume my MS.
                  "Nell, dearest, let me look at you."
                  Mrs. St. Clair turned her little guest toward the light.
                  "Yes, you look well and happy, bright and sweet. I like that entirely white dress. You need but a finishing touch, a single sentimental rose for your corsage, and a bouquet."
                  "Do you think them absolutely necessary?"
                  Bertha nodded. "So much so, that my wishes and thoughts being peremptory and powerful, no sooner said than—here they are." And she laughingly brought forward her left hand, clasping a hitherto concealed bouquet and a "single sentimental rose."
                  "Somebody's love to a dear little somebody, and which I found at somebody's door."
                  Helen smiled and thanked her. The flowers were beautiful indeed, and beautifully arranged. On her snowy bust she carefully fastened the pink rose and its crisp green leaves, thinking how much obliged she was to Harry for his kindness. No one could deny that if Nelly were exacting, she felt keenly the smallest attentions.
                  A final satisfactory glance at her mirror, and then the two friends went down-stairs together. As may be conjectured, there was a party in preparation.
                  "A few people, and no particular fuss," as Mrs. St. Clair called her "evenings." They were very pleasant—music, dancing to the piano, and a good supper formed the entertainment.
                  The guests soon arrived. Bertha flitted about with her usual vivacity, and Helen was in charming spirits. Her precious Harry was by her side, and she asked no more, although she gave smiles and attention to her whole troop of admirers; but presently she saw a frown on her idol's brow: what was it? It was not always easy to know the cause of Trevor's anger. To-night she could not guess it. Was he jealous? She drew near where he stood in solemn silence. "Is anything the matter?"
                  
                  "Nothing. Don't stay here; several people are observing you."
                  Meekly she slid away. Claudia playfully caught her by the arm.
                  "My lord is out of temper," she whispered; "can't you kneel to him less publicly?"
                  Helen looked gravely at her, made no reply, and disengaged her arm.
                  "I am going to play a quadrille, Nelly, and I forgot till this moment to add the champagne to to the 'Marmora loving cup,'" said Mrs. St. Clair; "will you, dear child, see about it for me? I don't wish to have my newly-tried punch spoiled."
                  "Certainly."
                  "That's a duck! Everything is in the dining-room, servants included. Make haste and get back."
                  Nelly was glad to go; but on opening the dining-room door, there stood Mr. St. Clair, two other gentlemen, and Harry Trevor, drinking wine.
                  "Don't let me hurry you," Helen said; "but I am sent here on business by our gracious queen Bertha."
                  "Are we in your way, Miss Nelly?" asked her host. "A moment's patience and we are gone."
                  "Will you give me the next waltz, Miss Latimer?" asked Robert Glenn, one of the gentlemen.
                  "I am not sure. I believe I am partly engaged."
                  She glanced hesitatingly at Trevor. He made no sign, said nothing, and was scowling at the opposite wall.
                  "Well," inquired Mr. Glenn, "may I have the other half of the half-forgotten promise?"
                  "The whole, I fancy," said Helen, forcing a smile, "for I can't remember who is my partner."
                  "Thank you," and she was left alone.
                  "What has happened?" she sadly thought, as the servant poured the champagne into the foaming bowl, while she stirred the mixture in the manner required by Bertha and the recipe.
                  Alas! it had become a hard matter to find out what did produce these incessant sullen storms, and when discovered the causes seemed so trivial, so impossible to avoid, for "their name was legion."
                  Her task ended, she returned to the gay party, just as the waltz began. Mr. Glenn claimed her at the door. He was very agreeable, and a very good dancer, but held his partner a little too firmly, perhaps. Nelly slightly moved aside from his clasp, but it was his style, and he meant no familiarity, and was thinking much more of the grace of his step, and getting cleverly away from reckless couples, than of the pretty little figure that rested in the curve of his arm.
                  He was just from Paris, had plenty to say, liked to talk, liked to have such blue eyes to listen to him, such bright lips to answer him; so they sat down, and Nelly was amused and interested. She was already engaged to go to supper with Harry. Punctually he appeared, but so glum, so sulky, that Robert Glenn decidedly set down his ancient class-mate as "a bear," and could not understand how that "nice creature," Helen Latimer, could prefer such company to his, for the discussion of her faisan truffé and biscuit glaceé.
                  
                  "Have I offended you, Harry?" she timidly asked.
                  "Have I complained?" he answered.
                  She was silenced—only for a moment. The gay flatteries of her recent companion and his lively stories, had put her in a mood too pleasant to be soon upset.
                  She talked cheerfully and affectionately to her lover, and tried to win a smile from his handsome mouth. In vain. He was polite as a prince, so far as serving her went, but threatening as a yet unexploded thunder cloud.
                  "My flowers are so beautiful, Harry, especially this rose; see how fresh it has kept. Although I have worn it all evening, its petals have not drooped. Such a perfect rose! No blight upon it. Fair to the eye, sweet to the senses—will our love be like this rose, Harry—unfading, undying, wear it as we will?"
                  As she spoke, looking at him, her little soft hand gently caressed the exquisite flower, lightly passing over its shining surface—ah! what fatality! At her touch, slight as it was, the dewy leaves suddenly fell as if by magic—so suddenly, that she started (as they showered over her white fingers), and glanced down at the mischief she had unconsciously done.
                  There was but the bare calyx and a worm coiled upon it!
                  Disgust and superstitious terror made her shudder and scream out. The whole room was attracted. Pale and trembling, she cried, "Oh, take it away, take it away! For Heaven's sake, take it away!"
                  Trevor looked disdainfully at her distress, but as Mr. Glenn darted forward and was about to remove the obnoxious object, by unfastening the brooch that held the rose-stem, he quietly put him aside, and without a word, picked off the worm, crossed the room and flung it in the grate, and his glove with it, and then returned to his agitated partner.
                  Helen was blushing and very nearly weeping. Mrs. St. Clair was urging her to drink some wine, and every one was discussing the little incident.
                  "I am very foolish, I acknowledge," Helen said, deprecatingly, "and I really must beg pardon for this scene; but I have always had an overwhelming fear of crawling things, and to think that I had had this one all evening so near me, added to my natural horror and loathing. I could not help screaming out."
                  "Perfectly natural," said several voices.
                  "I should have been quite disillusioned had you acted differently," whispered Robert Glenn. "None but 'a strong-minded woman,' could have stood it unmoved. I shall recommend the subject as a 'study' to my artist friend, Erling. A beautiful woman in an attitude of mingled terror, distress, disappointment and disgust—one lovely hand partly extended to pluck away the now hateful rose, the other put back, as if to keep herself away. A leaf or two lying upon the whiteness of the main divine, like rosy specks upon snow. Exquisite! exquisite scope for so much expression in figure and face. I could sketch it now myself;" and Mr. Glenn drew imaginary lines in the air with his artistic forefinger.
                  Helen laughed, and Mrs. St. Clair joined in.
                  "At any rate, remove the stalk, Nelly. I would not keep it in so honored a position when it has lost its charm. Don't hold to the shadow when the substance has gone."
                  Nelly looked at her friend earnestly. Was there meaning in what she said? Had Bertha heard her compare Trevor's love and hers to this fair-seeming blossom, with death at its core?
                  The company was moving back to the drawing-room—Claudia passed.
                  "Who sent you that fatal rose with 'a worm 'i the bud,' Nell?" she asked. "Mistrust the hand that gave it. Treachery! treachery!"
                  
                  "Have you had enough of this?" Trevor inquired. "I have."
                  "I am ready," said Helen, simply. "Do you mean to dance with me, Harry?"
                  "I am much obliged; the evening has already been sufficiently agreeable. I shall not prolong it; beside, when I wish to dance, I prefer asking you myself. Good evening."
                  He bowed profoundly, stalked up to Mrs. St. Clair, favored her with the same ceremony, and left the room.
                  Poor Helen! I don't think her slumbers were refreshing or deep that night; she scarcely closed her eyes until daylight, and yet, did not regret losing her morning's nap, when her maid awaked her about ten o'clock, with the information that Mr. Trevor was in the drawing-room, and begged to know if he could see her.
                  "Of course. As soon as I can get dressed. Beg him to wait. Carry him this book to read."
                  She was fluttering with impatience, hurried through her toilet, and nevertheless took care to be very neat, and to wear her prettiest morning gown.
                  Bertha called to her as she passed the dining-room: "Bring Mr. Trevor to breakfast with us."
                  He heard it through the open door.
                  "Will you come?" Helen asked.
                  "You have not breakfasted?"
                  "No. But I don't care for breakfast."
                  "God forbid that my visits should starve you. I did not know that you were so late in your hours."
                  "You never come till nearly twelve o'clock," Helen suggested; "I very often wait for you, do I not?"
                  "Probably." And he led the way into the dining-room, smoothing his face into a bewitching smile as he entered the gay presence of his hostess.
                  The breakfast was eaten in great liveliness and apparent harmony.
                  They adjourned afterward to the drawing-room, and Mrs. St. Clair had too much tact to make a third, where the first two of a party are known to have a penchant for each other.
                  "Would that some people," put in Olivia, softly, "had as much discretion. I have known individuals whom even hints would not move."
                  "Perhaps they were a little obtuse, and the hints very slight."
                  "Not so very; for instance, when Bob Mayfield would join Ralph Wilmot and myself last week at our cosy supper-table—you remember where we sat at the Milmans'?—Ralph said to me, 'Bob will never take a hint; I never saw such a fellow.' 'What did you hint?' I asked. 'Why, I said to him, "Bob, my friend, I don't wish you here—why the mischief don't you go away?" and he never moved.' Now that can scarcely be called a slight suggestion. However, I am interrupting you. Pray go on."
                  Helen almost wished Bertha to stay, she knew so well what would follow her departure. The frown settled again upon her companion's brow; but, undismayed, Nelly exerted herself to chase it away. He asked if she were going out.
                  "I had meant to do so, but of course so long as you stay, I shall be happier at home."
                  "I must not interfere with your movements."
                  "Nor do you. I only exchange a small pleasure for a much greater one."
                  This admission, compliment, whatever it was, had not much effect, but by a strong effort, that only those who have so quick a temper as Helen's can appreciate, she retained her cheerfulness and talked pleasantly and agreeably. She would not be beaten down by the sullen looks and coming storm. Presently the tempest raged; she casually mentioned Mr. Glenn, and her lover "rose in his wrath," and rated her coquetry, her levity, her folly in such unmeasured terms, that the tears burst from her eyes, and she ran from the room.
                  Two hours after, this letter was handed to her:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I feel that I owe you an apology, Nelly, for my apparently unreasonable humor and ill-temper, especially when I see that you begin to recognize the claim I have upon your forbearance always, and the necessity for controlling your natural violence, so as to become the sweet, gentle woman I long to call my wife—with such virtues and traits of disposition as are essential to a true conception of the 'feminine.'
                              "Yet I don't know what to say: I can't say I am sorry for what I am not—and I can't say I won't do again what I am sure I would do; yet, I appear unreasonable to you, because you can't follow the intricacies of thought in my own mind.
                              "The fact is, I have been irritable, displeased, dissatisfied for a week—perhaps I have not been thoroughly pleased for a long time—perhaps my teeth are on edge, and not without cause—perhaps the slightest acidity or resistance touches the nerve, and produces irritability and pain—perhaps I am much to blame, and perhaps you are.
                              "Not to go further back than last evening, I went to Mrs. St. Clair's party. I was talking, with my back to the door, and heard some one enter, exclaiming, 'you wretches, etc.!' I turned in horror, taking it for your voice—I found that this high, domineering tone proceeded from your cousin, Claudia. I recovered from my fright, and went on conversing; the same voice, I thought, was beside me—I moved to avoid the speaker—it was you! I actually could not distinguish the two voices. I was annoyed. Mr. St. Clair asked me to take a glass of wine; Robert Glenn and John Burke joined us—you entered the room where we were, and stood quietly facing this crowd. I became irritable. Glenn asked you for a waltz that I wished—you gave it to him; this did not please me. You returned to the drawing-room, and danced in what might be called a 'luxurious embrace.' I was very much displeased. Meanwhile, before this, when I first spoke to you, on entering the room, your attention was directed to Mrs. St. Clair's eyes, as if you were consulting her approval, or deprecating her feelings in some way. She thus, through you, controlled my conversation with you, and my pleasure concerning you—my movements and your own. I am sufficiently restrained as it is, by your father's willful obstinacy; as regards everything and everybody else, you must be free. I will suffer nothing further to come between us. All this jarred upon me fearfully.
                              "We went to supper. I was silent—you asked if you had offended me. I told you that I had made no complaint. You kept your temper, but seemed very much pleased with the whole party—with yourself and scarcely less so with me. I had by this time a regular case of ill-humor. Fancy, therefore, what I felt when you chose to get up that preposterous scene about a little green worm, and called the whole company to admire the delicacy of your nerves, and Robert Glenn to——; but I will say nothing more on this most disgusting topic.
                              "Nevertheless, I went to call upon you this morning at 10 o'clock—you make your appearance at ¾ past 10—daudle through your breakfast, and finish it by the hour, at which, had I not been there, you would have gone out. This did not make me any more amiable. Seeing me out of sorts, you fidgeted about the room, and finally came and stood silently by my chair, laying your hand upon my shoulder. I received this as an indication of gentleness and sympathy. I took your hand in mine and kissed it. Had you continued that manner, I would not now be writing this. It is true you asked me several times if anything were the matter—it is true you preserved your temper and your equanimity, but you seemed perfectly happy when I was not—perfectly self-satisfied when I was not altogether pleased with you—perfectly contented, when I was all discontent. Here was no sympathy, no agreement; your calmness rather angered than soothed. It touched no chord in me: it rather jarred them all.
                              "Your efforts to keep your equanimity should not make you so self-complacent as to lose sight of my feelings—to show no sympathy for me. You felt none, or I should have felt it in turn, and we should both have been spared much disquiet.
                              "I have now told you my just causes for displeasure and annoyance; you must acknowledge their force and their disagreeable existence; but, in spite of all, I love you dearly enough to pass them over, and trust that I shall meet you at the Tevis' this evening with such an expression on your face, as will prove to me how entirely you subscribe to all I have said, and how truly you believe that I am now, as I shall always be,
                              
                                 "Your devoted
                                 "HARRY."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "Heaven grant me patience!" cried Olivia. "I have been breathless during this letter. Oh, dear Sylvia! surely, surely she did not stand this! I could beat her, if she did."
                  Mrs. Sutherland read on.
                  Mrs. St. Clair entered Helen's room as the latter sat with this precious epistle in her cold, trembling hand.
                  "May I see what has caused those tears, dear Nelly?"
                  Helen shook her head.
                  "A quoi bon?" she said, trying to smile. She folded up the letter carefully, replaced it in its envelope, walked to her desk, locked it up, and kissed Bertha, who warmly threw her arms about her and pressed her to her heart.
                  "It will soon be over now," Nelly said. "I see the end approaching—let me shut my eyes ever so! but don't advise me, it is useless."
                  Mrs. Sutherland paused. "Another break in the MS.," she said, "and the tale is almost told now."
                  "What next? Fill up the hiatus."
                  "There is no need. The next scene speaks for itself."
                  A cold December day. Two years have passed since that morning when Helen Latimer strolled beneath the wide-spreading branches of those venerable oaks, and playfully teased her wayward lover. She sits at the window of her own bedroom now, gazing out at the drizzling rain, the murky clouds, the wet leaves, the dreary, dreary prospect. Is it only two years? It might be five—it might be ten to-day, by this light, in this gloom.
                  The bright blue eyes have forgotten, it seems, how to smile—there are dark shadows beneath the golden lashes; the cheeks are pale; the figure perceptibly thinner; but an air of mingled restlessness and weariness forms after all the most startling change. With a sigh, she rises from her chair, and moves about the apartment; opens a drawer, closes it, examines minutely each pretty trifle upon her dressing-table, and then fixes her eyes steadily upon her own image in the mirror. She evidently does not see herself; her thoughts are wandering vaguely and far away, even while she mechanically smooths her glossy hair and appears busy with this little act of feminine vanity.
                  A book lies before her: she takes it up—a passage strikes her—she reads it aloud: "It was a crisis such as Life only holds once. She might take the cold comfort of that thought to her breast, embrace it, hold it fast, for it was all she had. And there is consolation, bitter and icy, but restful, in the feeling: 'This can never be again. The wound is deep; the agony is fierce; but once suffered, it is past forever.'"
                  "Yes," murmured Helen, "God be thanked, I know the worst. I can never suffer more than now. I can never again have this first consciousness."
                  
                  There was a knock at her door. "Come in."
                  Mrs. Latimer entered. Nelly put down the book, and came forward with a smile—such a forced, unsmiling smile.
                  "Helen!" Mrs. Latimer's voice was interrogatory and threatening.
                  "My dear mamma."
                  "Helen, answer me. Is this true? Can this be true? Did you suspect—know it?"
                  "What, mamma?"
                  "Is it true that Henry Trevor is engaged to Claudia Leslie?"
                  "Yes."
                  "When did you hear it?"
                  "Yesterday."
                  "From whom?"
                  "From himself."
                  "Did he write to you?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Heaven help me!" cried Mrs. Latimer. "You tell me this as calmly as if you were announcing a fact in which you have not the slightest interest. Pride at least might make you feel the position in which you stand. Are you utterly heartless, Helen? are you such a weak, senseless, frivolous flirt, that you are perfectly unmoved?"
                  "If you think me calm, mamma, it is the first gleam of comfort that I have had. If your eyes are deceived, I may hope to deceive the world."
                  "You are calm; you are absolutely indifferent to the loss of one of the noblest hearts that ever beat—to the destruction of my dearest wish—to the consequences of your own folly and recklessness."
                  Helen was silent.
                  "Tell me about this business. You have not given me your confidence. I have been blundering in the dark"——
                  "Excuse me, mamma, for reminding you, that when I wished to speak of him some two months since, you would not listen to what I said, but bade me be patient and all would be right."
                  "Because you were only repeating to me some of Mrs. St. Clair's flighty ideas. She has no conception of what a woman owes of deference to her husband, and encouraged you to resist the authority of one whom I would have chosen for you from the whole world, and whom I looked upon already as my son. Oh, Helen! Nelly, my own little Nelly, my own dear daughter, I could have closed my eyes in peace, I would not have had another thing on earth to desire, if I could have called you Mrs. Harry Trevor! And that Claudia Leslie should be destined for his wife!"
                  "Mamma! there is a mystery in this: may I ask it before I speak myself? Why is Harry Trevor so dear to you, that in thinking of him you forget me?
                  "Have you never guessed it? Harry's father and I were sweethearts as children, betrothed when we grew up: a foolish quarrel between us terminated in his marrying suddenly from pique. Why should I deny it? I have been a faithful and devoted wife, my life has been a cheerful—yes, a happy one; but, a first love, Nelly, one may not even regret it, but it leaves its trace. I do not forget you, nor put your feelings aside, on Harry's account, but I am bitterly disappointed for you as well as for him. It has been my dream, my ambition, my hope, that Frederick Trevor's son, and my only child, might be united. It has been the only romance of my life, and it is gone."
                  "We could not have been happy," Helen said, softly and with a sigh.
                  "Because you thwarted him; he is generous and kind, but has a strong will. Every man should have. He has a noble heart."
                  Helen said nothing.
                  "Do you deny this, too, Nelly? Did you ever doubt that his heart is in the right place?"
                  "In Claudia's keeping?"
                  "Don't repeat this nonsense. I do not believe it. He could not bear Claudia, she did not like him. How has it come about? How could it?"
                  "Shall I tell you all that I know, mamma?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Since the spring," Helen began, and her voice was so sad and so weary, "I saw that my dream was over. Our life, when together, was like an incessant struggle to mingle two opposing elements. Nothing that I did pleased him, everything that I said annoyed him. I could not be always patient; even if I were, he seemed to take it as a tacit reproof to himself, and to resent it in that view. Each day matters grew worse. I had no longer the power to interest him; he chafed under the restraint which papa's wishes placed upon us; he was unjust and querulous. His lawsuit was decided cided against him; he had to set to work in right earnest; we were going to be poor, after all. The prospect was not gay—at this time, that is, in June, you know, Uncle Leslie had that sudden turn of fortune—those western lands which became so immensely valuable, and from a well-to-do planter, he was elevated into a very rich man. Mrs. Percival fell ill; Claudia went to help nurse her. I was there constantly too, and I noticed then a change in their manner to each other. I think Claudia has always cared for him. I think she liked him before he ever thought that he was in love with me. His sister saw more however than I did; she hinted to me something of the sort. I jested him about it, and he seemed only angry. We went to the Island, and they remained in town together. I hope she loves him, for she left no means untried to win him. Two months since, he went to New York; we parted without anger, without coolness, without affection; he returned a week ago. I met him accidentally in the street, shopping with Claudia. I had not known of his return. She came up to me—he followed and shook hands, calmly; all the old feeling rushed upon me so strongly that—I blush to think of it—the tears came to my eyes, and I said 'Why do I meet you here, Harry, for the first time?' 'Have you desired to see me?' he said. 'Can you doubt it?' I asked. He looked gravely at me. Claudia called to him, and nodded to me, and he raised his hat and joined her."
                  "That was the day you returned from the city with such a headache, my poor dear Nell."
                  "Yes, mamma."
                  Her mother laid the girl's head softly upon her shoulder. "Well, he called that very evening, I remember, did he not?"
                  "He did."
                  "And you received him kindly?"
                  "No. I was not able to say very kind things. I am not an angel, mamma, and he had tried me too far; but, you recollect, perhaps, that I wrote him a note the next morning, for I asked your leave to send it. What I said, you will gather from this reply which I received but yesterday."
                  Helen drew a letter from her pocket, and her mother read:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I have received your note. For the kind words in which you convey the very kind feelings you entertain for me, how shall I thank you? How express my own appreciation of them, and my respect? I beg you to believe that I had no wish nor intention to wound you last Friday when we met. Nothing could give me more pain or mortification than to be the cause, carelessly or unnecessarily of inflicting the same upon you. Yet, for this very reason, perhaps it is best that we should not be alone together again; our last interview was infinitely distressing to me. Why add to the misfortune of our position? I have loved you very deeply and sincerely. Indeed, life can give me nothing like the past. The whole freshness and power of my heart have been yours, and yet while I thank you on my knees for the happiness which our long engagement has brought me, I feel that neither of us can further endure its attendant evils. We are unsuited, Helen, for each other. You have not the temper to mate with mine; and in the life before us, a life of privations and comparative poverty, how absolutely necessary it would be that we should possess that unity of spirit which will alone make any marriage tolerable. I have long felt that this day must come, that the hour of parting was at hand. It is bitter, but better so. You cannot but have seen that my love was no longer what it has been. I have for you still the warmest interest, the sincerest friendship, but I feel that it is due to you, as well as to myself, that I should at once and forever put an end to all uncertainty on a subject so vitally important to us both. Forgive and forget me. I can never feel otherwise than as a friend to you. I would die to serve you. I respect and honor your sincerity, your faithfulness, but everything is against us, in ourselves and in our circumstances. Your father's animosity, our uncongeniality—a thousand things. I ought to say one word more—rumor will tell you of it. I am conditionally engaged to your cousin—to Claudia Leslie. You must have seen it. I have not for her the wild passion that I had for you; but I feel assured that we will mutually endeavor to make each other's happiness. I long misunderstood her. Even her actions toward you find their excuse where they truly lay—a jealousy of you and love for me, which she vainly tried to conquer.
                              "God bless you, Helen—mine no longer, but ever dear to me. In some future time, when the heyday of youth has passed for both of us, you will thank me for the wisdom which has dictated this step. You will marry, you will be happy, happy as your kind heart deserves to be; happier than you would ever have been with one, who now signs himself
                              
                                 "Your friend always,
                                 "HENRY TREVOR."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Mrs. Latimer's face flushed as she read this letter. She was evidently laboring under conflicting feelings, but her better nature prevailed; she drew her daughter close to her, and without speaking, looked earnestly and affectionately at her. Helen kissed her mother's withered hand, and laid it on her burning forehead.
                  Presently the good lady said, "I don't reproach you, my dear. I don't abuse him. It is the will of Heaven, I suppose, and I must be resigned to it. I can do nothing. Poor Harry! He has been drawn on, inveigled, deceived!"
                  Helen raised her eyes imploringly. The blow was hard to stand; the evil was deep-rooted. Even here, on her mother's breast, there was no comfort. All she must expect, was forbearance, not sympathy. She took up the letter and scrutinized it, as if there were cabalistic signs upon its envelope, frowned slightly, examined the seal—it was a comic seal, a Paul Pry with the worn out device, "I hope I don't intrude." Her lips partially curled with scorn. Was this trivial, common seal used from inadvertence, or was it intentionally, pointedly and impertinently chosen? What did it matter? There was a bright fire in the chimney, she went to it calmly, threw in the fatal letter, saw it ignite, flame, burn out, and the blackened fragments curled over and over, and then disappeared. She drew a ring from her finger—it was nearly three years since Harry Trevor placed it so proudly and so tenderly there—it followed the letter; a moment, the diamond flashed in the blaze, and then it sank out of sight, in a bed of coal and ashes.
                  Her face was stern and yet excited, when this deed was done—she thought of Lucy Snowe burying her precious letters in the allée défendue of that famous Brussels garden; truly had she "closed the eyes of her dead, straightened its rigid limbs, and drawn the white sheet of oblivion over the pale corpse." There was nothing as original in her act, but the feeling was alike, the motive the same—to be rid forever of mute testimonials, that could but bring biting memories. She thought of other women in history, in romance, in real life, who had suffered like herself. She repassed in her mind all the circumstances of her own case, as if it were some stranger's that interested her, and, idly, the while, gazed into the fire and drummed upon the chimney-piece.
                  "Nelly, darling," her mother said.
                  She started and turned.
                  "Have you told your papa?"
                  "No; will you tell him?"
                  "If you desire it. Anything that can help you, or please you! Won't you lie down now and go to sleep, my little daughter; you look badly. But, how glad I am, that you take this so quietly. I believe I feel it more than you. Try and forgive him, therefore; he has been honest, at least he has told you at once of his infatuation, his folly. Ah me! youth is hasty, unstable, easily led—Claudia is so clever. He is so honest, depend upon it, he suffers terribly, but felt that he must not in the smallest way deceive you."
                  "Mamma!" Helen said, "spare me. I see now, what I ought long since to have seen. Like Richard of Gloucester, he 'thought women had tender hearts, but mine was tough' and it has taken much 'straining to crack it.' My only crime, like the Lady Anne's has been 'to outlive his liking.' You and papa shall not blush for your daughter. Spare me. Let this subject be a sealed one between us. I am a woman now, twenty-one, not a mere girl; I must show a woman's strength, a woman's forced hypocrisy. I understand your partiality; but I cannot share it. That letter," she shuddered slightly "has been the caustic to sear, scarify, cure, but not in a moment. The pain is vivid, recent, severe, but wholesome. Don't weep, dear mamma; kiss me, love me. Where is papa? Will you tell him what you know, and ask him never to say 'I told you so.' Will you?"
                  Mrs. Latimer silently embraced her daughter. Helen's calmness overpowered her; to her simplicity there was something mysterious in the sudden reason and equanimity of her hitherto child-like, buoyant, skittish, careless Nelly. Her eyes had been blind to the change that had been working for months, transforming the girl into a woman.
                  "I shall lie down for a little while, as you proposed, mamma; for, you know—I see the weather has cleared—I am engaged to take tea with Mrs. St. Clair, and to go with her to the theatre."
                  "How can you do it? Nelly, will you stand it? Suppose you meet——?"
                  "It must be done, sooner or later—as well to-day as to-morrow—this week as the next. Don't fear for me, dear mamma."
                  The mother was gone; reluctantly, lingeringly she left the room: once she turned back as if to say something more, sighed, and shut the door. Listening for her retreating steps, Helen hastily turned the key, drew the bolt; she was alone, alone to give way to a violent burst of tears, broken sobs, passionate exclamations. Wounded in every feeling of her nature, crushed, hopeless. She threw herself on her knees beside her little white bed, and buried her head in its pillows. Where turn for consolation The mother that loved her could give but a divided and insufficient sympathy—her father had prophesied and looked for this, had warned her of it, and she had not heeded his warning. It was a fearful experience for a young heart, and it was now to be borne unflinchingly and courageously. Helen was not what is called a "pious girl;" she respected religion, practised its forms, but did not look to it as her constant and only friend. Like many and many a creature, it was still to earth she looked for help, when her trials came from earth, and were but repeated in a thousand shapes.
                  Her little dog, sleeping upon his cushion during all this time, presently woke up, and jumping upon the bed, called her attention by his caresses. She arose, spoke to him, and looking into his watchful, earnest, affectionate eyes, said, sighing, "You are faithful still, Frisk—for how long? Till some one gives you a larger breakfast, or a bigger lump of sugar than this?"
                  She bathed her eyes—and paced the room until she was calmer in mind, weary in limb—slept uneasily for a few seconds, and then prepared for their early dinner. Mr. Latimer was very kind to his daughter, and Mrs. Latimer showed her feelings by having provided a profuse and excellent meal. Helen tried to eat: tried to speak cheerfully—did both very badly; but when she came into the drawing-room to say good bye, before she drove into the city, both father and mother were inwardly surprised at her blooming and brilliant aspect. Her fresh and elegant dress, with its delicate laces and appropriate ornaments, set off the "refined loveliness" which her admirers always dwelt upon—and there was a flush upon her cheek, and a glitter in her eye, which deceived, and ought to have alarmed the parents that fondly inspected her. They only thought her looking singularly and strangely well, and were each silently delighted that she should bear her troubles so bravely.
                  "You will not see me till to-morrow, you know, dear people," Helen said, gaily. "Mrs. St. Clair will drive me back in the morning. I wonder that both or either of you can resist what I am going to see—that great actress in 'The Hunchback!'"
                  "I should like to see myself in a theatre," Mrs. Latimer said, laughing; "why, it's twenty years since I was inside of one."
                  "So, like the pope or the cardinal, or who was it, Nell, in the Louvre?—your mamma only considers that the sight for her to see would be herself. Tell us all about it to-morrow, and be off now or you will be driving in the dark presently."
                  It was a gala night. Glorious Ellen Kean was the attraction, and the theatre in which she performed was crowded from pit to gallery. Mrs. St. Clair's party entered her box with a great commotion, as usual. Bertha herself was always a rallying-point point for opera-glasses and comments. She rather liked it. She had a way of glancing around that showed a nice consciousness that she was looked at, and that she considered herself worth being looked at. One beautiful hand was generally bare; she said she hated gloves, and half a pair must be enough to satisfy etiquette and custom; but some of her friends were inclined to think that if her nails had not been so very pink and oval, her fingers so taper, and the lines so statuesque and graceful, she would have endured both of Desprès' kid glacé à double boutons, without a murmur.
                  Helen and herself, with a certain lively Kitty Maxwell, composed the ladies, while six or seven gentlemen of Mrs. St. Clair's set, made up the party. There was a good deal of chat and laughing and settling in their places—some few changes after the first seating—and finally an inspection of the house and its contents. Mrs. St. Clair swept the boxes with her admirable lorgnette, and pronounced the assemblage a "collection of frights,"and "nobody one knew;" presently she discovered a familiar face, then another, afterward several, and at last admitted that "everybody was there." Suddenly she glanced uneasily at Helen, who was talking with great animation to Robert Glenn. A party was just entering: a tall, fair, handsome woman, serene as moonlight, with a very quiet and haughty carriage, and large, disdainful eyes; her chaperon was a voluminous lady, all fringes and diamonds, good humor and fuss, cap and false ringlets—Mrs. Leslie and her daughter Claudia.
                  An antique beau in spectacles placed himself beside the mamma, and Claudia sat between Walter James and Harry Trevor. The one carried her opera-glass, the other her bouquet.
                  "Does Nelly see them?" thought Mrs. St. Clair. Helen did not look that way at all; but one who knew her as well as Bertha did, could easily detect, by a certain nervous contraction of her lip, that she was aware of their presence.
                  The curtain rose. The audience of that city where Helen Latimer lived is courteously quiet, if it is uncourteously undemonstrative—so there was a hush, although Charles Kean's presence was not enthusiastically welcomed, but it did rise into fervor when his matchless wife appeared as "Julia." She played as she always does, perfectly; she looked the gentlewoman, and Bertha's attention was irresistibly drawn from Nelly to watch the mimic scene. But she felt and knew that there was a real play performing in that house to-night which out-tanked the one upon the stage; and Ellen Tree, born an actress, did not act her part with stricter attention to rule and criticism, than Helen Latimer.
                  "I should never have come this evening," thought Bertha, reproachfully. "Every word of this play 'tells.' Where was my memory, common sense, ordinary intellect? What a simpleton I was, to bring dear Nell here."
                  The curtain fell, and Helen was tranquil as a lake at midnight with no breath to ruffle it, but she held a fan in her right hand, and whoever had tried to move it, would have seen that no iron grasp was firmer.
                  "So far, so good," Mrs. St. Clair was repeating to herself, while she mechanically bowed, smiled, and answered Ben Burgess, who was in full tide of compliment and gossip.
                  "Is the engagement official?" Mr. Burgess asked.
                  "Mary Elliott's to Mr. Carlisle? yes, I believe so. I saw Mrs. Elliott this morning with a face as red and radiant as the rising sun; and she told me with a simper and a sigh, that she would 'have to lose Mary soon—no one but a mother could know the grief,' etc., when we all know, whether maids or mothers, that the whole family have been spreading nets for Mr. Carlisle these four blessed years; but it is an age of humbug! What a comprehensive word! what did we do before that dissyllable was invented? Who can recollect? although, did not somebody put it in the mouth of Caius Gracchus; therefore, we are to understand that this generation at least were born to the use of it;" and so Mrs. St. Clair rattled on, hoping to escape the fatal subject; but, as she paused to take breath, inquiring "what is the play to-morrow night?" Mr. Burgess answered:
                  "'A new Way to pay old Debts,' and that keeps us to our subject, for it was not of Miss Elliott's engagement that I spoke, but of Miss Leslie's."
                  "Hush!" Bertha interrupted, "Claudia's cousin, recollect, is present; what an insinuation against Mr. Trevor's motives! Are you coming again tomorrow?"
                  "Oh, they are not very friendly, any way—but I wish to know the whole truth. Miss Latimer," leaning over, and stretching his long throat. "Miss Latimer, may I interrupt you one minute?"
                  "Helen, dear, don't answer him. They will hiss us presently; the curtain is rising. Be quiet, Mr. Burgess, pray. There goes the prompter's bell."
                  "Just one word. Is the engagement really one between our friends over there, Miss Leslie and Harry?"
                  "Yes," Helen said, simply and with a smile. "Don't they look very happy?" and she glanced across the house at her cousin, her lover, and her friend—once so dear to her, all three, and now, separated from her by barriers that neither time nor circumstances could ever remove.
                  If there was "intention" in Mr. Burgess' question, he failed in his object. A slight color rose to her cheek, and there it gradually deepened. Never had Helen Latimer looked so lovely as that night; never did she so look again! It was the last gleam of her youth and freshness—when "the world" again saw her, they saw a different woman. The light of hope, of girlhood, was quenched forever; but this night, it burned with a borrowed lustre, and 
                        
                           "Pleasure's self might envy her
                           The mirth of her despair."
                        
                     
                      Even Bertha St. Clair watched her with amazement and doubt; she almost thought that her "dear Nelly" was after all a heartless little thing, and that her own sympathy was wasted. But such ideas vanished when the play proceeded, and when, while giving her attention to "Julia," she nevertheless was irresistibly obliged to cast an occasional glance at her friend. 'Master Walter,' says to 'Clifford,' 
                        
                           "Go to! thou art a boy,
                           Fit to be trusted with a plaything, not
                           A woman's heart. Thou knowest not what it is!"
                        
                      Such a quick, spasmodic shudder thrilled poor Helen's frame; yet instantly, as the act here ended, she resumed her lively conversation, and met Bertha's anxious look with a frank, affectionate reply. "But oh!" Bertha groaned, inwardly, "if it were only over, and we safe at home!" She began to think seriously of getting up a fainting-fit on her own account, and so dispersing the party. Never had an evening seemed so long to this little lady; and never had she listened with more dissatisfaction to the meanest performance in her whole life of theatre attendance, than she now did to her hitherto worshipped idol, charming Mrs. Kean. Impatiently she turned her lorgnette from side to side of the crowded house; it seemed to her that hundreds of eyes were watching Nelly, just as hers did. She was not far wrong in such a supposition.
                  Curiosity was on the alert; "society" did suspect that there was a mysterious change of hands and hearts, and a malicious tongue had jestingly alluded to the ivy leaves in Nelly's blonde ringlets, and had asked, since when the emblem of constancy did duty for the willow-bough of forsaken ladies?
                  Helen had never been popular; her gay and careless way of talking made her equally feared and disliked. She was called "sarcastic," a cheap form of dispraise commonly used by people who have not the faintest idea of what it means or they convey. Therefore, besides the natural pleasure all the world takes in running down its neighbors, a few private animosities were gratified in believing Miss Latimer to be a bergère délaissée.
                  
                  It took all of Mrs. St. Clair's dearly acquired self-control, under which the vivacity, born with her, was constantly striving to break through—it took every atom of it, to hide her emotion now. How she loved Helen for her composure, and pitied her for the suffering which her observation read beneath the ever increasing loveliness, the frequent laugh, the dimpling smile, the flashing eye, the brilliant repartee!
                  "Julia" enters, pacing the stage indignantly, "Master Walter" pretends to sympathize with her anger, and she utters with scorn: 
                        
                           "Why't will go abroad,
                           That he has cast me off. That there should live
                           The man could say so! Or that I should live
                           To be the leavings of a man!"
                        
                     
                  
                  The whole house applauded; Helen said criticisingly,
                  "Very well; but she does not quite enough convey the humiliation of that thought, eh?" This was rapidly spoken, without a trace of personal feeling. Mr. Glenn agreed with her.
                  "Master Walter" leaves his ward, and "Julia" exclaims: 
                        
                           ——"Love me?
                           He never loved me; if he had, he ne'er
                           Had given me up! Love's not a spider's web,
                           But fit to mesh a fly—that you can break
                           By only blowing on 't! He never loved me!
                           He knows not what love is—or, if he does,
                           He has not been o'er chary of his peace!
                           And that he'll find when I'm another's wife,
                           Lost!—lost to him for ever! Tears again!
                           Why should I weep for him? Who make their woes,
                           Deserve them! What have I to do with tears?"
                        
                     
                  
                  "Beautifully spoken," said Helen softly. "What a tone she has."
                  "I can enjoy the play in front of me," thought Mrs. St. Clair, who had caught the whispered words, the careless glance. "But, to my mind, there are two great actresses within these walls tonight. She'll stand anything now."
                  And so she did. Helen Latimer played out her rôle steadily, unfalteringly—no bravado, no unmaidenly display, no effort to seem unconcerned, which only shows the weakness scantily hidden; the most scrutinizing glass in that audience failed to find food for cavilling and sneering comment, in the graceful composure, the playful sparkle, the high-bred ease of that broken-hearted, disillusioned, suffering woman!
                  Bertha turned her attention, during the next entire act, to the betrothed lovers, Harry Trevor and Claudia Leslie. Claudia was all herself. Trevor was ill at ease. He was restless, gloomy, silent. Mrs. St. Clair took a malicious pleasure in catching his eye, and bowing with her little mocking, profound air. Again, when "Lord Tinsel" says, 
                        
                           "Lady, we come not here to treat of hearts—
                           But marriage; which, so please you, is with us
                           A simple joining by the priest, of hands;
                           A ring's put on; a prayer or two is said;
                           You're man and wife—and nothing more! For hearts,
                           We oft'ner do without, than with them, lady!"
                        
                     
                  
                  A scarcely perceptible smile curled Bertha's lip, and she shot another glance across the theatre, that found its mark and sank
                  The play ended: as they made their way through the crowd, accident brought them in contact with the Leslie party.
                  Impossible to avoid speaking; Mrs. Leslie nodded good humoredly to Helen, and seemed perfectly unconscious of any awkward feeling. Helen deliberately put out her little hand and offered it to her aunt and cousin: hesitated but for a second, and then gave it coldly and simply to Harry Trevor. Not a blush, not a tremor; his thoughts were not enviable. As a selfish man he regretted the loving slave that he had lost; as a born gentleman, he could not be insensible at this moment, and for this moment, to the dastardly cruelty which he had practised; as a vain man, he saw that his power was over forever, and that the heart he had tortured, trifled with and cast aside, rose proudly superior to his insults. She had a right to despise him; there lived a human soul whose respect he had justly forfeited, and that only revenged itself by a silent and deserved contempt. It galled him; those slight fingers never rested again in his; but, not even his children's loving clasp, nor his wife's condescending pressure, ever effaced the memory of that fleeting touch. On his death-bed, ask him, he may acknowledge it then!
                  Who so gay as Helen Latimer at the supper table, presently? Mr. St. Clair, on whose right she sat, said as he filled her champagne glass to the brim:
                  "You are brighter than these sparkles, my pretty neighbor."
                  "Hear! hear!" cried Bertha, "a compliment from the head of the house!"
                  "The head of the house? not so," replied her lord. "If the head holds the tongue, I yield to you, madame."
                  Bertha bowed. "I propose a toast," she said, with her ringing laugh. "I have not mentioned this mighty fact before, because I dislike too many repetitions; still, Mr. Pelham has been so flattering to my looks this evening," the gentleman in question had not opened his lips, and stared aghast at such an announcement, "that I venture to suggest, that on this happy day some few years back, my eyes first looked upon this 'weary world.' My birth-day, my friends, the 10th of December."
                  "The 10th of December!" exclaimed Helen, faintly. Her lips paled, her cheeks grew white, she tried to raise her glass, it slid from her trembling hand, and Mr. St. Clair caught it as it fell.
                  "Dear Nelly!" cried Bertha, springing to her side.
                  "It is nothing," Nelly said, "a little water. Thank you: I drink to your birth-day, Bertha. Let us each make her a gift—a contribution on the spot. Imprimis, I offer this."
                  She took a jet bracelet, curiously fashioned, from her white arm and clasped it on Bertha's, who protested,
                  "These good people will consider us in league, Nelly, and call this a guêt-à-pens—to bring them innocently here to be fleeced!—no, no."
                  But the whole party enthusiastically applauded. Kitty Maxwell gave a ruby-mounted seal from her cluster of breloques; one gentleman hastily divested himself of his pearl sleeve-buttons; another laid his watch-chain of great enamelled balls on Bertha's plate; another, with a mischievous smile, held out a locket (Mrs. St. Clair, perhaps, had given it to him herself); and finally, on the summit of this incongruous little heap of ornamental odds and ends, Mr. St. Clair placed his pocket-book.
                  "That's practical," exclaimed Bertha, laughing, as she tossed it up playfully and caught it again on her rosy palm. "Who gave this pen-knife? Mr. Pelham? Ah! Mr. Pelham, won't you respect my superstitions? Allow me." And she gravely handed him a crooked pin "to break the charm."
                  Meanwhile, Helen saw, not the gay scene before her, but a quiet lawn, with its grove of ancient oaks; a rising, half-spent moon; a girl standing in the door-way of her father's house, with an arm encircling her waist; impassioned eyes fondly gazing into hers, and a deep voice, trembling as it slowly recites: 
                        
                           "Mine, to the core of the heart, my beauty!
                           
                           Mine, mine only, forever mine!"
                        
                     
                  
                  The 10th of December! the day to be an anniversary, solemnly and sacredly kept so long as their lives lasted!
                  Miss Maxwell rose to go home; her carriage was waiting—her little brother, too shy to come in, was doubtless getting very tired and very cold, fast asleep in the family coach.
                  "One song, Kitty—just one," Mrs. St. Clair pleaded.
                  Miss Maxwell was not averse to displaying her fine contralto voice. She turned to the piano, saying:
                  "Here is an old ballad, prettily set, which I have just found. It is new to me, and you know I dote on 'melancholy music.' I exhaust any possible sadness of my own in this fashion."
                  "Not to night—something gay to-night," cried Mrs. St. Clair, hastily. But it was too late. Kitty shook her head, and sang:
                        
                           "The dream is past and with it fled
                           The hopes that once my passion fed,
                           And darkly die, 'mid grief and pain,
                           The joys, which gone, come not again.
                           My soul, in silence and in tears
                           Hath cherished now for many years
                           A love for one who does not know
                           The thoughts that in my bosom glow.
                           Oh, cease my heart! Thy throbbings hide!
                           Another soon will be his bride,
                           And Hope's last faint but cheering ray
                           Will then forever fade away.
                        
                        
                           "They cannot see the silent tear
                           That falls unchecked when none are near;
                           Nor do they mark the smothered sigh
                           That heaves my breast when none are by
                           I know my cheek is paler now,
                           That smiles no longer deck my brow—
                           'Tis youth's decay, 'twill soon begin
                           To tell the thoughts that burn within.
                           Then let me nerve my sleeping pride,
                           And from his gaze my feelings hide.
                           He shall not smile to think that I
                           
                           For love of him would pine and die."
                        
                     
                  
                  The rich and tremulous tones died away, amid profound silence. Kitty struck a few bars plaintively tively. Bertha cleared her throat, but Helen interrupted her—
                  "What a birth-night strain, Kitty! If I were Mrs. St. Clair I should banish you from three successive suppers. Don't send us all 'weeping to our beds.' Listen to me."
                  She swept Miss Maxwell from the piano with a playful gesture, and sang archly, brightly, charmingly: 
                        
                           "Where is the heart that would not give
                           Years of drowsy days and nights,
                           One little hour like this to live—
                           Full, to the brim, of life's delights?
                           Look, look around
                           This fairy ground,
                           With love-lights glittering o'er,
                           While cups that shine
                           With freight divine,
                           Go coasting round its shore.
                        
                        ("Pass the punch," said Bertha, sotto voce.)
                        
                           "Hope is the dupe of future hours,
                           Memory lives in those gone by;
                           Neither can see the moment's flowers
                           Springing up fresh beneath the eye.
                           Wouldst thou, or thou,
                           Forego what's now,
                           
                           For all that hope may say?
                           No—Joy's reply,
                           From every eye,
                           Is: 'Live we while we may.'"
                        
                     
                  
                  "Brava!" cried every voice. "Nothing like Moore, when you wish 'no more' of such lugubrious strains as Kitty's. Kitty, where do you find your songs? They are all elegies."
                  "I write them myself," said Kitty, mockly indignant, and taking her leave.
                  They were all gone; the last lingerer put on his overcoat and lit his cigar at the lamp in the entrance-hall, and not one, as he wended his way home, but thought with admiration of the sparkling grace and animated countenance of "sweet Nelly Latimer."
                  It was her "moment of success," often remarked upon afterward—often recalled.
                  Bertha followed her friend to her room. The smile had faded from Helen's face; she looked worn and weary.
                  "Darling," Bertha said caressingly, "are you quite well?"
                  "My head aches a little, not much." She gave her hand to Mrs. St. Clair; it was burning.
                  
                  "You have overtasked yourself."
                  "Yes."
                  "Let me prescribe for you."
                  "No drugs—no mixtures, Bertha. They are useless. Talk to me a little."
                  "May I venture"—
                  "Anything. Say what you choose."
                  "Nelly, would that you could feel as I do, that this loss is your gain. That after a very little while you will be happier than you could ever have been—that he was utterly unworthy"—
                  "Hush!" she laid her hand on Bertha's lips. "That is too commonplace for you to say. Listen to what I feel; we can neither of us add to it, nor take away from it. I don't mourn the lover—I mourn the love—the faith—the illusion. I mourn my wasted feelings, poured out so lavishly, that I have but the dregs remaining. Some one says that there is no 'wasted love,' it but grows as you need it. It is a divine gift, like the few drops of oil in the widow's cruse, which increased only because she used it; without faith, it would never have been but the few drops. I don't feel this. I shall not 'pine away and die,' like the heroine of Kitty's crooning ditty, but I shall never be 'myself self' again, dear Bertha. This blow is not sudden; it came slowly, gradually, overwhelmingly—long withheld, but long since certain. I tell you with the truth of Truth herself, that I would not have this otherwise, and that it has destroyed my youth and the whole brightness of my life. You understand me. Let us never speak of it again." Then smiling feebly, she added, "I am the widow of a sentiment, not a husband—but my weeds shall be to the world bright enough to dazzle them, and my cap nothing less than a garland of roses. Good-night."
                  Warmly she embraced Bertha, and gently turned away. Mrs. St. Clair sighed and left her.
                  
                  It was the last page of the MS.; Mrs. Sutherland laid it down upon the desk, and placed her hand upon it.
                  Presently, she looked up; Olivia's eyes were moist and tenderly fixed upon her.
                  "The tale is told," Mrs. Sutherland said.
                  "No. What has become of Helen? Did she marry? Where is she now?'
                  "Did she marry?" repeated Sylvia, evasively; "why do we always conclude that a woman must or does marry. What do you think? conjecture? did she marry? Ought she to have married?"
                  "Why not, pray? You would not have her live as an eternal monument to the glory of Mr. Trevor? giving his selfishness the satisfaction of thinking that he was everlastingly remembered—that he still exercised a fatal influence over the life and happiness of"——
                  "I set considerations for him entirely aside," Mrs. Sutherland interrupted, "but for her own sake; should she, as a matter of prudence, of delicacy, of fidelity to the sentiment itself, should she ever have fancied her affections engaged, or bestowed the worthless débris of her heart"——
                  "Nonsense!" broke in Olivia, shrugging her shoulders. "Her heart ought not to have been broken, and if it were, as some writer says, even the fragments of such a heart should be carefully gathered up; as scraps, they are more valuable than most others, still intact. But, I guess your intention," she added, gently. "You wish me to commit myself by criticism on your—friend. Tell me the rest of Helen's life, won't you?"
                  Mrs. Sutherland could not resist smiling.
                  "There is a letter which is a sort of a supplement ment to these sketches; since you are so flatteringly importunate, I will read it to you. It is from Helen to Mrs. St. Clair. The latter had been abroad for some time. Here it is, and I warn you that it is very long."
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Yes, dear Bertha, the news you have heard is true. I am about to be married; more than that, to-morrow is my wedding-day. You will naturally wonder why you should be the last to learn a matter so important; it is because I know beforehand all that you will urge, and think, and say against my choice; consequently, I have spared us both unnecessary waste of paper, pondering and parley. And I proceed to do to-day what I have always intended—devote my last single hours to you—and would have done it without your eloquent appeal, and still do it, in spite of your little outbreak of indignation. Ever the same, dearest Bertha, so quick to fancy that you are wronged! But I forgive your petulance, thinking how furious you will be, that I should dare 'forgive' when it is I who stand in need of pardon myself.
                              "To explain my position and reasons, let us go back four years, to that 10th of December when we saw Ellen Tree in the 'Hunchback,' and afterward, at supper, Kitty Maxwell sang us that song. The next morning, as you well remember, instead of driving me back to Oakland, your carriage was sent for poor mamma, who arrived to find me very, very ill. My only wish was that no one should know it, and I believe few ever suspected that my subsequent visit to New York was to recruit after this slow, wearing fever, more of the mind than of the body, and from which I arose like a skeleton.
                              "Kind as ever, you took me away, and I rallied amidst the sunshine of that gay city and returned some months after, well and strong; but I never recovered my elasticity of spirits, nor my bloom. What mattered those two losses, since I became a greater belle than ever (excuse the vanity of such a disclosure—there is no feigned modesty between us), and my court increased each day. Singular, was it not? While anxious to please, I never had been appreciated as I now was, when, indifferent and bitter, I welcomed every new aspirant for my smiles with ill-concealed carelessness.
                              "I had several proposals—very good ones the world said—and mamma was evidently anxious that I should marry; but I was inexorable; and she had, dear soul, the distress of seeing me mount those fatal, flowery steps, which lead from twenty-one to thirty, without, seemingly, an idea of avoiding that rock of old-maidism, so terrible to the eyes of many excellent people.
                              "Her life was further embittered by the event which had likewise blighted mine, only we received it very differently. She could not help showing me that the——that—pshaw! Henry Trevor's marriage was still, would ever be, the great disappointment of her calm existence. She never could see that no power of mine could have prevented it—she loved me dearly, she was very good, but felt herself ill-used. Dear mamma! I dreaded Aunt Leslie's visits! 
                              "They had married, and had moved to New Orleans before our return from New York, you know—fortune favored them—speculations never failed; they were and are very rich. Aunt Leslie is justly proud and delighted; she heard frequently from her daughter, and could not resist speaking to mamma of Claudia's balls, and Claudia's child, and Claudia's wit, and Claudia's state of glory and grandeur. Sometimes she would check herself in mid career, and glance at me, which only made mamma more angry and uneasy. As soon as Aunt Leslie's portly figure had driven off, I would hear such a sigh from my poor mother, and a muttered, 'And all this Helen has thrown away.'
                              "It made me think of your story about the Melvilles, when you went to see them at Philadelphia, and found them full of the good fortune and splendor of a certain Mr. Drummond, a rejected suitor of their penniless niece, Lucinda; and who, having since married some wealthy man's daughter, and living very grandly, caused them constantly to exclaim, 'What a position this would have been for Lucinda!" Less dazzled by Mr. Drummond's horses and houses than themselves, it quickly dawned upon your intelligence that such regrets were rather useless; for, as you immediately remarked, 'My good friends, had Drummond married Lucinda, when could he have espoused Miss Elsey, and where would he have found his three hundred thousand dollars?' This easy solution dissolved the spell, and they were quite obliged to you for pointing it out.
                              "I might have told this to mamma—but, à quoi bon?
                              
                              "As for my father, he was very kind; but he could not and did not regret what had happened. 'My only mistake,' he said, the morning after my return to Oaklevel, and I lay like a ghost among the white draperies of my bed, 'my only mistake was, in ever permitting the intimacy I did not absolutely forbid. I am really grateful to Claudia, my Nelly; she has saved you from a miserable life.'
                              "He went to the wedding; he made a handsome present to the bride; he really believed and felt what he said. He treated the bridegroom as he had always done, with cold politeness. Mamma did not go, I heard.
                              "My bitter regret, dear Bertha, is, that I long harbored resentment against my father. Alas! before I had quite learned to cease questioning in my inmost heart the justice of his feelings, he died. But he never knew how much I had dared to blame him; and he blessed me, and called me his dear, dutiful little Nelly, and passed away with my name upon his lips, my hand fondly clasped in his.
                              "Troubles now came thickly upon my head. As that fifth commandment is 'the first with promise,' so, I believe, that my unfilial resentment was visited sorely upon me. Mamma's health rapidly failed. One night I was aroused by that fearful cry of 'fire,' always alarming in a crowded city, where help is near and accessible, but doubly terrible in the country, far from relief or aid. Surrounded only by the frightened servants—one of whom had accidentally discovered our danger—we rescued mamma, carried her to one of the farthest negro-houses, and I stood with folded arms, after everything had been saved that could be saved, and saw my dear old home burned to the ground; worse—there was a high wind, the oaks were like tinder, sparks fell among them—nine of the finest perished, and many others were hopelessly injured. But this you know.
                              "You know that the neighbors came at last, with the kindest offers, and it was at Mr. Ellis', three weeks afterward, that mamma died, and I was left alone in the world! Alone indeed! I have no relatives but the Leslies—mamma was an only child. Your sympathy, dear Bertha, your house, yourself, everything was pressed upon me. You delayed your European trip, you were eager to take me with you; but my double mourning was still too recent to permit me, even had I wished it, to participate in your schemes of pleasure, and I feared I should prove a check to your gaieties. I promised to join you after a while—six months since was the appointed time—you wrote impatiently, chiding my postponement, when I failed to keep our tryst. Now, I shall explain fully, what I merely evaded then. My dear Bertha, I am a beggar!
                              "Recover from this shock and let me go on. Papa made no will, had no debts. Mamma and I just went on as we had always done. I knew we were not rich, but we had always lived comfortably. After her death, I wished to rebuild our house; you opposed it: I was obstinate—considered myself old enough to live as I chose—consented to engage an ancient female distant cousin, good Miss Parsons, to come and 'watch-dog' me (since you and the world thought me still young and pretty enough to attract 'wolves'), and you left me, at a private boarding-house, busy with plans and builders' estimates.
                              "My house was finished, a modest residence—and I called in my bills, and the inventory of my fortune. Debts paid—you know my horror of debts—I stand, mistress of a brown stone cottage, neatly furnished, some relics of old plate and china, enough acres of land to raise vegetables and flowers, ten venerable domestics, whose united ages would amount to about eight hundred and ninety-nine years, and not one sixpence in any bank, or invested in any further shape.
                              "I could begin an Arcadian life as soon as I pleased on carrots and turnips during the winter, and continue this vegetarian diet more extensively during the spring. But summer-time, the working season of the industrious ant, would prove starving days to me. I could not live in the country, and how was I to live at Rutledge-super-Mare?
                              "My man-of-business, busy little Mr. Skerit, advised selling Oaklevel at a 'fancy price.' Sell Oaklevel! where my dear mother was born, Oaklevel which we have owned since before the Revolution! my eyes flashed so indignantly, that the little man started in his chair!
                              "I wanted to know how we had always lived during my father's life-time? Skerit was vaguely uncertain, and verbosely explanatory. I sent for Mr. Mulgrave—my father's old friend, yet his junior by fifteen years. He gave his time, which to a distinguished lawyer is very precious, his whole attention, and finally told me that papa was a bad manager, invested badly, each year had decreased his capital; Skerit, was 'honest barely,' and I, a very poor, forlorn little woman. He did not say it in these words.
                              "Unobtrusively, he gave sympathy, advice; he would have given, had I permitted it, his income. In a short time, he did offer his home, his plantation, his bank stock, his fame, his name, his heart, himself.
                              "He loves me, he has loved me since I was a wee girl. It is a hereditary love. He loved our poor Emily, and has only transferred that unacknowledged passion to me.
                              "Do I love him with the love I have loved? No. He knows it. I have faith in his tenderness, gratitude for his affection, esteem for his character, admiration for his admirable qualities, confidence in his truth, hope for our future. Is this enough to marry upon? I close my eyes, and leave the answer to that future.
                              "I have been silent to you, my best Bertha, because of all this. Mr. Mulgrave is so much older than myself, he is no favorite of yours—his gravity, his plain exterior impress you disagreeably. You are a strong advocate for love, love only, in marriage. So am I, if you can feel that love. 'Then,' I heard you say, in your pretty, pettish, positive voice 'don't marry at all.' What can I do, my dear? 'To dig, I cannot, to beg I am ashamed.' You will not believe that I would marry 'any man, lord' in this view? You do not believe what all our little world of this little city do, and say, that I am, and ever have been a 'heartless woman,' that I wind up my career of selfish conquests and frivolous trifling by making at twenty-five, a marriage of convenience? The world and its sayings! Last week, I was walking behind an unconscious couple who discussed as they went, my engagement. 'Just like her,' said one, 'you know she jilted Harry Trevor to marry Robert Glenn, and after all Glenn didn't offer. Served her right.' 'Yes,' said the other 'Christian,' 'and poor Trevor is not the only man whose happiness she has destroyed. Flirt she was, and flirt she will be to the end of the chapter.'
                              "I write this name quietly now; without a falter in my pen. What of the state of my heart, my memory rather, in that quarter? To such a question, I would answer frankly. My heart is like Oaklevel. The fire has passed over it, not a vestige remains of what it was. More—I could as well hope by laying tier upon tier of guano, to see springing up in my lifetime, with all their old vigor, that noble line of beautiful oaks—I could as well hope, by any effort of mine, to feel within my breast, the same wide-spreading, luxuriant, over-shadowing freshness of passion and tremulous love—to hear again the wild melody of the birds in the branches, to listen to the wind-voice softly sighing among the leaves.
                              "No; scorched and withered, I dug up the very roots of those cherished trees, the friends of my childhood, the dear companions of my girlhood. I struck and spared not! Since their glory was destroyed, let every trace be banished.
                              "A smooth green lawn, and clusters of rose bushes, osier baskets filled with violets, those are what you will see, dearest Bertha, when you visit Helen Mulgrave. The resemblance, the march of circumstances, is still more complete. I can no longer call this place Oaklevel, where oaks are none. 'My World,' I have christened it. Know us both under our new names, unchanged to you and yours. What more need I say? What more can I say? I have been sitting for hours, writing all this. I stand upon the threshold of a new life; some misgivings I have, I don't deny it; solitary I am; but for very shame, I would weep now. Away with such feelings. I have the love of an honest heart, what more should I ask, or need?
                              "Ever, dearest Bertha, dear and faithful Bertha, faithfully and dearly yours,
                              
                                 "NELLY."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                  Olivia's hand softly stole into her friend's. There was a profound silence, you could have heard the rain drops fall from the roof, heavily, one by one.
                  The wind had risen, it moaned fitfully by gusts, around the northern end of the house. Sylvia went to the same window at which she had been standing hours ago. She put up the sash, threw open the shutter. The storm had passed, clouds slowly sailed across the sky, hurrying out to sea, with stately march. Streaks of faint crimson in the east, showed the approaching dawn, the lamp within the room burned low and flickering. "Come here, Olivia;"—she pointed to Mars, the "red planet Mars," and winding her arm around Olivia's waist, slowly repeated:
                        
                           "'Star of the unconquered will,
                           He rises in my breast
                           Serene, and resolute and still,
                           And calm and self-possessed.
                        
                        
                           "'And thou, too, whoso'er thou art,
                           That readest this brief psalm,
                           As one by one thy hopes depart,
                           Be resolute and calm.
                        
                        
                           "'Oh! fear not, in a world like this,
                           And thou shalt know ere long,
                           Know how sublime a thing it is,
                           To suffer, and be strong.'
                        
                     
                  
                  "To suffer and be strong. I am not strong, Olivia. No concealments now. You know who 'Helen' is. Her life has been a series of mistakes and experiments. May God keep you from the same. If you can extract a wholesome moral from my story, your evening has not been wasted, nor this storm profitless. The morning is close at hand, ring the bell, my child, although we shall probably alarm the poultry-yard by such a sound, at such an hour. Don't speak to me, now. I read in your eyes, in your expressive face, all that you would say."
                  The sleepy butler dragged in his weary feet, scarcely comprehending this long night-watching, and staring with winking lids, as his mistress gave her orders.
                  In a little while, every light was extinguished, and stillness settled, like a veil, over the deep calm of "Sylvia's World."
               
            
            
               CRIMES
               WHICH THE LAW DOES NOT REACH.
               
                  
                  NO. I.
                  GOSSIP.
                  "MRS. TURNER," announced the servant.
                  A bustling, active old lady, in black, a widow's cap surrounding a common-place face, entered, with hasty steps, a quiet, silent room, where sat its mistress, Mrs. Greene.
                  "Dear Mrs. Greene," she said; "I am very glad to find you at home. How are you? Well? and Mr. Greene and the dear children?"
                  "All of us are well, thank you," replied Mrs. Greene, as she put aside her book, slightly contracted her eyebrows, and drew forward a chair.
                  "Now, it seems an age since we met. It does me good to see you." A bow from the lady. "I hope you will be as glad to see me, when I tell my errand. You know I never make fashionable calls. Between my poor and my sick, my time is always taken up. The 'world' has no charms for me: I want you to give something to the 'Ladies' Society for the relief of Seamstresses.'"
                  "With pleasure."
                  "Oh, my dear friend! how very good you are. And can't you help the 'Association for visiting Magdalens?' Some people object to this society, but really it does a great deal of good—and the things we find out! you can't tell how many of our worthiest citizens we unmask by just asking a few questions!"
                  "Indeed!"
                  "Yes, indeed. Why it was only yesterday I heard that Silas Broughton, whom we all think"—
                  "Excuse me," interrupted Mrs. Greene; "I really don't care to hear"——
                  "Well, well. And so you won't give anything to this society?"
                  "I did not say that. Mrs. Manners was speaking to me the other day about the good that might be done; for a poor girl came to her, with no revelations, but an anxious desire to be put in the way of gaining a livelihood."
                  "Oh! Mrs. Manners! She had better look nearer home for reform. There is that daughter of hers, Ellen. If all I hear of her is true! why they say she has young men at all hours of the night walking in and out"——
                  "My dear Mrs. Turner!" cried Mrs. Greene, deprecatingly; "let me entreat you not to repeat such idle tales about a young girl."
                  At this instant the door again opened, and the servant introduced Miss Welsby. Whereas Mrs. Turner was short, stout and bustling, Miss Welsby was tall, angular and deliberate. She was received very formally, but politely, by the hostess, with cries of delight by the other guest.
                  "Ah, I am ahead of you, you see, Katy."
                  "Yes. What have you got?"
                  Oh, Mrs. Greene has promised me everything"—winking at Mrs. Greene—"haven't you?"
                  "All the foreign charities, as well as the domestic ones?"
                  "Why, no. You can have the foreign, if you won't interfere with my domestic."
                  "Then, Mrs. Greene, please set down your name in these books," producing half a dozen little green-covered pamphlets. "Here is the 'Stocking Fund,' and the 'Pocket Handkerchief Fund,' etc., and here is a bundle of tracts which you will allow me to leave for your children. What do you suppose I heard as I was coming here?" turning to Mrs. Turner, and lowering her voice.
                  "What?"
                  "Something awful about Ellen Manners."
                  "You don't say so!" said Mrs. Turner, eagerly, with radiant visage, hitching up her chair, while Mrs. Greene left the room to get her purse.
                  "I met Emma Gibbs and Mrs. Thomas on their way home from prayers; they wanted to scold me for being absent, but I showed them what I had been after, and they then told me that Ellen Manners and Julia Darnell went two nights ago to the theatre alone with William Ford and that dressed-up fool, Charley Cheston; they got into a carriage afterward, and drove Heaven knows where, but at three o'clock in the morning the carriage brought home Ellen Manners dead drunk—drunk, my dear, so that she could not stand, her dress half torn off, and she was lifted into the house by a strange woman and that Darnell girl, as quietly as possible, and the carriage moved off at a snail's pace, so that her poor mother might know nothing of this frolic, I suppose."
                  "I always said so!" exclaimed Mrs. Turner, triumphantly; "that girl was bound to go wrong. I never failed yet in prophesying such things. Do you hear this, Mrs. Greene. What did I tell you just now?"
                  "Something pleasant, I see by your face," said Mrs. Greene, as she resumed her seat.
                  "Not exactly pleasant," continued the brisk widow, striving to subdue the sparkle of her keen little eyes. "Here is a fine story about Ellen Manners. She and"——
                  "Spare me," again interrupted Mrs. Greene. "I have an odd belief in the adaptation of the old proverb, 'the receiver is as bad as the thief.' In tales of scandal, 'she who listens is as bad as she who relates.' I have laid down a positive rule for myself. I will not be the recipient of, any more than I would be the first to tell, a disagreeable story—true or false."
                  "I am sure I never have been accused of scandalizing my neighbors," said Mrs. Turner, a little affronted.
                  "Many a shaft at random sent," murmured Mrs. Greene to herself, at the unconscious effect produced by her visitor's ignorance of the English language. "By your love of slandering, you are certainly scandalizing me," she thought.
                  
                  "Here are ten dollars," she continued aloud; "pray dispose of it for me on your lists—and here is the same sum for yours, Miss Welsby."
                  Both ladies were profuse of thanks, and in their joy immediately "gave tongue."
                  "This has been a fortunate call for us. I am so glad I came here, instead of going to see a sick girl in Smith's Alley. She is dying of consumption. A most interesting young creature; it is a pleasure to see her. She can't last much longer."
                  "Oh! you mean Betsey Martin. Yes, I heard of her," chimed in the Welsby. "Very low indeed, she is; I heard you had her in charge—you converted her, too, didn't you? Mrs. Rawleigh told me, and by the by, have you heard of Mrs. John Douglas's last? Oh! that woman! Mrs. Rawleigh says, that she gave a riddle to 'guess at the Assembly Ball, the other night, to a party of young men—the most outrageous thing—I can't say it aloud," and with unusual rapidity she whispered something to her friend, who cried, "You don't say so! Well, that beats everything. Let me hear it over—I didn't exactly catch"——and the worthy and pious matron listened more carefully to a riddle, "too outrageous to be spoken aloud."
                  "Now, Mrs. Greene, what would you say to this. Why is"——
                  "You really must excuse me," exclaimed Mrs. Greene, with evident disgust. "I always close my ears instinctively when I hear Mrs. John Douglas's name, for two reasons: the first, that never was there a woman so persecuted and pursued by the grossest stories, as that lady, who constantly hears of things about herself, newer to her than they are to her informers; or else where her share of the anecdote is no more than your own—something that she has unwisely repeated to some tale-bearing friend. Secondly, because she is, which you doubtless do not know, an intimate and cherished acquaintance;" and fairly worn out, Mrs. Greene rose, with heightened color, and an unmistakable intention of saying "good morning."
                  Unabashed, her guests arose likewise; they really could not, "as Christians," they afterward said, "quarrel with a woman, however rude, who paid down twenty dollars so cheerfully."
                  "Thank you again, my dear Mrs. Greene; our little charities, little enough they are"—uplifted eyes and nodding head—"would flourish, if we met often with such liberality. I will, I assure you, speak of this about."
                  "Pray, don't. Pray don't speak of me at all."
                  "Ah! modesty, modesty!" Miss Welsby said, with a grim smile; "well, we will remember you in our prayers. You are a worldly woman yet, my dear young friend—but we will hope to bring you to us before long."
                  "Yes, my dear child, for you are a child to me," and Mrs. Turner took up the strain. "I often think of the state of your soul; night and morning I remember you, and wish that 'you were altogether such as we are.'"
                  "Oh, it will come, it will come," Miss Welsby patronizingly put in. "She will find out the hollowness of temporal things. By the way, Carter & Johnson have failed; they say they can meet their liabilities, but a little bird whispered to me, that Mrs. Carter spends thousands on her dress, and Carter himself is every night at the faro-table. Good bye, my dear Mrs. Greene. God bless you; you shall have my prayers," and with the air of a saint, who had by this promise insured Paradise to the fortunate one whose name would be thus embalmed, Miss Welsby stalked out, followed by the hasty trot of her suitable colleague.
                  "Insufferable creatures!" exclaimed Mrs. Greene, as the door closed upon them. "They set my teeth on edge, these women, until I can scarcely control myself. Pharisees! with their prayers! their charities, and their hideous slanders! What have they, I wonder, against that poor child, Ellen. Perhaps I ought to have listened, so as to be prepared. But, à quoi bon? As well attempt to stay the onward, dashing wave with my bare palm, as stop these righteous ladies' tongues!"
                  
                  Three months after this visit, Mrs. Greene wrote three copies of the following letter; one she retained, another was addressed to Mrs. Turner, the third to Miss Welsby:
                  
                     "MADAM: A fortnight since I attended the wedding of Julia Darnell—this morning, I followed to her last home the mortal remains of Ellen Manners—both your victims. I cannot tell which ceremony brought the dreariest feelings to my heart, the saddest tears to my eyes! 'The long arm of the law,' as it is called, will not be stretched out to grasp you, yet, the hungry boy who steals a loaf, or the woman who in desperation strikes a fatal blow, it arraigned to answer at the bar of human justice for a crime committed—and, wonderful inconsistency, you escape unscathed!
                     "Three months ago, two young girls, smilingly and innocently, were enjoying the life, the sunshine, and the youth which God had given them. Ellen Manners was beautiful and frolicsome, as so candid and true a young creature merited to be. The girlish blush which dyed her cheek at every instant, proved to the most careless eye how keen and sensitive were her feelings, while, secure in her bright purity, she held a fearless brow for the world's admiration. Julia Darnell was graver and prouder: smiling in response to her friend's mirthful laugh, and bending a haughtier glance than ever beamed from gentle Ellen's eyes.
                     "So they passed, hand in hand, good and gay, and gracious.
                     "Three months ago, one night, when Mrs. Manners was just recovering from a short but severe illness, her bachelor brother, Mr. Townsend, insisted upon taking Ellen to the theatre; she was pale from attendance upon her mother, and needed change. Mrs. Manners urged it, and the party was made. Mr. Townsend's carriage first called for Miss Darnell, and with himself, the two girls, and William Ford, inside, and Charles Cheston, upon the box, they proceeded to the theatre. He then took them to his house for supper, to conclude the evening.
                     "While chatting gaily of the play and the actors, some allusion was made to Fuseli's illustrations of Shakspeare. Ellen knew the volume she wished, and exactly where it stood in her uncle's library. Taking a candle, she went to get it, and in a moment they heard a stifled scream. She had fallen from the tall book-case, tearing her dress, and injuring her side, which struck upon the sharp edge of the table. In the midst of acute pain, she incessantly said, 'I must go home presently, but don't tell mamma.' The young men went off. Julia remained with her, and when the pain had somewhat abated, her uncle was obliged to comply with her urgent request that she should be taken home. They lifted her into the house as noiselessly as possible, assisted by Mr. Townsend's housekeeper, who went along with them.
                     "By the next day, her side being still painful, a physician was sent for, remedies used, and the inflammation was subdued. In a week she would, her doctor asserts, have been perfectly well. Alas! you, madam, became then the executioner of a helpless, lovely creature, who had never harmed you—who, probably, had never seen you. Whispers, false and horrible, attached themselves to these innocent names—slanders, too vile to repeat, withered their fair reputations. Ellen Manners and Julia Darnell were the themes of every ribald tongue, and to you is due the merit of having assiduously disseminated, 'sowing broadcast,' words that blasted, injuries that destroyed. Even to her sick-room, came the murmur of this muttered vileness—the drooping flower heard and faded. It can surprise no one who knew her nervous, excitable nature. The mind preyed upon the body—the body acted upon the mind. This tender blossom, reared with utmost care, never before shaken by the rude wind of slandering women's tongues, could not bear this undeserved shame. Ellen Manners died—the only daughter of her mother, 'and she, a widow.'
                     "Julia Darnell has not been touched in health, but a bitter blight struck her down. Her father is stern and fierce, and the maiden aunt who regulates the household, made her feel that, justly or unjustly, the world's ban was upon her. She has married hastily—I hope wisely. I saw the one in her orange blossoms and her bridal veil, tearless and proud;—I saw the other, in her little white shroud, with white roses crowning her sunny hair. You have murdered both.
                     "Man's justice will not reach you: God's vengeance surely will overtake you—unless you repent. Put aside, while there is yet time, the Pharisaical belief, that because you wear straight skirts and a sombre-hued bonnet—because you say your prayers daily in the market-place, and listen while the ear of Heaven is vexed with long exhortations—because you visit the poor, and beg alms for them, you are pious and charitable.
                     "Not so: the most frivolous 'woman of the world,' who has once, in very agony of spirit, called upon God's grace to preserve her from sin and temptation—who keeps her tongue from evil-speaking, her mind from evil-thinking, of her neighbors—is as far better than you, you and your compeers, as Heaven is higher than Hell.
                     
                        "ANNIE MARION GREENE.
                        "Outhbert Street, May, 185—.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  NO.II.
                  A MARRIAGE OF PERSUASION.
                  "AND so you refused him?"
                  "Yes, mamma."
                  "Without one word of hope?"
                  "Not one."
                  "Harshly? rudely?"
                  "I trust not. Finally and positively, I certainly did."
                  "Anna! I can't forgive you."
                  "My dear mamma, what have I done?"
                  "What have you done? Refused an excellent man; one whom any mother would be proud to see as her daughter's husband. Sent from the house the best friend I have—deprived us of our mainstay and support—insulted him—and—destroyed the great hope of my life!" The tears streamed from Mrs. Mansfield's eyes. She drew away her hand from her daughter's clasp, and tried to leave the room. Anna detained her.
                  "Dearest mother! you cannot be more grieved than I am. Mr. Gordon is a very worthy man—he has been a kind friend to us in adversity—he is, I believe, truly sincere in his love for me, and I regret very deeply that it should have brought us to this pass. I have not wounded him further than I could help, I assure you. He will return to visit us in his usual way, after a while indeed, I hope to see so little change in our intercourse, that I would have spared you the annoyance of knowing this, had he not expressly desired that I should tell you."
                  "Ah, he is a forgiving and generous creature; a true Christian. Such a man as that to be so treated!"
                  Anna was silent.
                  "Anna," resumed her mother, with sudden energy, after a moment's pause, "do you love any one else? have you formed some absurd attachment which interferes with Mr. Gordon's undeniable claim to your affections?"
                  Miss Mansfield's noble and expressive face was calmly lifted to her mother's heated and excited gaze.
                  
                  "No, mamma," she simply answered.
                  "Then, why can't you marry Mr. Gordon, and make me happy?"
                  "Because," and Anna's voice was firm, decided and honest. "Because I do not love him, and to marry him would make me very unhappy."
                  "Selfish as ever!" ejaculated Mrs. Mansfield. "Will you tell me what you dislike in him?" she pursued.
                  "I did not say I disliked Mr. Gordon, mamma."
                  "What you don't like, then? Why you don't love him?"
                  Anna smiled faintly. "Dear mamma! is there not a great difference between liking and being in love?"
                  "You are trifling with me most disrespectfully. Is it not enough that I should suffer this disappointment at your hands, and can you not spare me this beating about the bush? I wish a plain answer to a plain question. Is there anything about Mr. Gordon especially disagreeable to you? If so, what is it?"
                  "Nothing especially disagreeable, as a friend—as a man whom one sees three or four times a week; but as a husband, several things."
                  "May I, as only your mother—of course a very insignificant creature to wish or have your confidence—ask these several things?"
                  "In the first place, then, his appearance is not attractive to me."
                  "Gracious heaven!" cried Mrs. Mansfield, starting up; "do I live to hear my daughter express such a sentiment! His appearance! Do you not know that to think of such an objection is—the—the—very reverse of modest? Where have you got such ideas? To a truly virtuous woman, what are a man's looks? I might expect such an objection from a girl of low mind and vicious ideas, but not from Anna Mansfield. So this is your reason for not marrying an excellent, kind"——
                  "Not my only one, mamma," Anna interrupted gently; "it is one of them, but not the greatest. I named it first because it is, I think, very important; and I cannot see the impropriety which strikes you." A slight blush rose to her cheek, as she continued, "I should not like to engage myself to pass my life with a man whose attentions would be repulsive to me, if he had the right to take my hand—or—excuse me, mamma, I don't like to say any more on this point;" and then as the color deepened, she added in a lower voice, "You saw Frederick yesterday put his arm around Maria's waist, as he lifted her from the saddle; and, not caring for the presence of you, his aunt, and us, his cousins, he—a bridegroom of three months—he kissed her pretty blooming cheek, and drew her close to him. She blushed, and said, 'don't, Fred,' but evidently was not displeased. Now, could I endure?—Oh, mamma, pray don't talk about it. It makes me ill. I have named one of the smallest, and at the same time one of the greatest objections. Why dwell upon a difference of opinion, in many essential cases—a total want of congeniality—sympathy—taste, when this trivial reason (provided he possessed the others) is in itself so strong? Dear mamma, don't be angry—don't be disappointed. You would not wish to make me truly miserable? Perhaps in a year or two, Sally may be Mr. Gordon's choice; and Sally may take him as her beau ideal. Why do you want to get rid of me so soon?"
                  "Ah, my dear," said Mrs. Mansfield, "you know how poor we are now. Here I am with you four girls, and an income not much larger than in your dear father's time I spent upon my own dress. Is it wonderful that I long to see you settled? Heaven knows that I am not one of those mercenary mothers who would give their children to any man with money. No, indeed. I would not be so wicked. But when a gentleman like Norman Gordon—an honorable, trustworthy, generous creature—wishes to become my son, do you wonder that I should desire it too? I knew his father before him—I knew his mother—all good people; it is good blood, my child—the best dependence in the world. You are nearly twenty years old, and there are three younger than you; how can I help being anxious? And I who know what 'love-matches' are—how many a girl goes to her ruin by that foolish idea; marrying some boy in haste, and repenting at leisure—children—no money—bills to pay—oh! my dear Anna, where is the love then?"
                  "Mamma, am I making or thinking of making any such match?"
                  "But you may do it. I want to save you from this. I have a horror of these romantic 'love-matches.'"
                  "Did you not love my father, mamma?" Anna asked, in a low voice.
                  
                  "Of course I did. All women should love their husbands. All proper, well-regulated women do love their husbands."
                  "And yet you wish me to marry without love!"
                  "Love comes after marriage—every woman with good principles loves her husband. She makes the best of her bargain. Life is a lottery, and if you draw a prize or a blank, you must accept it as it is and be satisfied. Then, when a woman has sworn, in the face of God and man, 'to love, honor and obey' her husband, how can she reconcile herself to not doing it?"
                  "But, if she should not? if she finds it impossible? Oh, think of that, mamma. Think of vowing solemnly in the face of heaven—and breaking one's oath! Swearing to love, where you feel indifference—promising to honor, where you see little to respect—and vowing to obey, where your reason tells you there is no judgment to make obedience possible! Taking upon your shoulders, for life, a burden you cannot bear, and which it is a crime to struggle under, or to cast aside!"
                  "You know nothing about it, Anna," Mrs. Mansfield said impatiently; "it is not proper for a young girl to think and speak in this wild way. Your mother is here to guide and direct you. No good ever comes of a child arguing and setting herself up in this manner, to teach those older and wiser than herself. The Bible says, 'Honor thy father and thy mother'—it don't say, 'dispute with them.' I tell you what I heard from my mother, and what every right-minded person knows. 'Make a good choice in life; marry, and love will come afterward.' Love comes with the—never mind. I will not say any more now. I hope sincerely you have been careful of poor Norman's feelings. But you are not apt to do that. You have lacerated mine enough, Heaven knows."
                  "Oh, mamma! when—how?"
                  "In this business. When it would be so easy for you to make us all happy, and you prefer your own notions, and willfully act up to them."
                  A flush of transient anger and indignation swept gustily over Miss Mansfield's face; but she conquered the emotion, and playfully taking a volume from a book-stand near, said, with perfect good humor, and meaningly, "May I read 'Clarissa Harlow,' mamma?"
                  "No, put it down, Anna, and don't bother me with any further nonsense."
                  
                  The daughter obediently withdrew, glad to escape so painful and so disagreeable an interview.
                  But although this was the first, it was by no means the last of such conversations. Every day the subject was renewed, but gradually Mrs. Mansfield changed her tactics. She no longer scolded or insisted; her reproaches were silent looks of misery—pathetic appeals to heaven "to grant her patience under her afflictions." She was very affectionate to her daughter—heartrendingly so. Anna was called upon constantly to notice what a tender parent she was distressing. Each necessary privation in their reduced household (the father's honorable failure and death had brought them from affluence to comparative poverty,) was prologued and epilogued by sighs and suggestions. "If only Anna could"—and then a sudden pause and deep respiration.
                  "My own dear child," Mrs. Mansfield would sometimes say; "how I wish you had a new dress. That brown silk is very shabby; but we cannot, with our limited means, buy another, and yet I saw Jane Berryman sneering at it, with her flounced skirts spreading a mile behind her."
                  "Indeed, mamma, I don't care for Jane Berryman's man's sneers. It is very good of you to be anxious about it, but I think the old brown very becoming."
                  The next day a rich plaid silk, glossy and fresh, lay upon Anna's bed. "I could not stand it, my dear," said Mrs. Mansfield. "I must do without a new cloak this winter. A mother would rather starve with cold than see her daughter less handsomely dressed than she ought to be. Nothing is a sacrifice to me, for you, Anna."
                  In vain poor Anna protested and tried to return the silk, and exchange it for the very necessary cloak, whose purchase was now impossible. Mrs. Mansfield positively forbade her, and the thin black shawl which covered the widow's last year's bombazine was worn with a prolonged shiver, whenever Anna was near enough to hear and see.
                  Mr. Gordon soon returned to pay his usual visits—to offer his usual attentions—to make his usual presents, at stated times, of things which could permissibly be tendered. The visits Mrs. Mansfield received with great delight—the attentions were allowed; but the first basket of winter produce which arrived from Mr. Gordon's farm, she requested decidedly should be the last.
                  
                  Clara, the youngest girl, a child of seven, cried lustily because her mamma said "These will be the last potatoes we shall ever eat." From the solemnity of the tone, the little thing fancied that potatoes—a very important item in her daily consumption—were tabooed forever. She desisted when she found that it was only the potatoes from the Gordon farm that fell under the restriction.
                  Day by day, week after week, this persecution continued. It was the unceasing drop of water that "stayed not itself" for a single instant. In despair, Anna went to consult an aunt, whose opinion she highly valued—whose principles were undoubted—an exemplary wife and mother, and a kind friend always to her niece. Anna recited her woes. "What must I do to escape this torment, my dear Aunt Mary? I feel and know my duty to mamma, I trust; but this life is wearing me out."
                  Aunt Mary smiled.
                  "And you don't like Mr. Gordon, dear?"
                  "I now detest him."
                  "Oh, for shame! How can you say so? Indeed, my child, I cannot but agree with your mother. This is an excellent match; and it seems to me that if you have no positive objection against his character and standing, you ought to reconsider Mr. Gordon's proposal."
                  "But, don't you understand that I don't in the least care for the man, except as an ordinary acquaintance. He is well enough as he is; but, do you too advocate a marriage made on such a foundation?"
                  "Anna! a love-match makes no marriage of love."
                  "Voilà une chanson dont je connais l'air!" said Anna, smiling bitterly in her turn. "You will all force me to marry this man, actually to get rid of him."
                  "Well, you could not do a better thing, I think?"
                  Anna returned home disconsolately; returned to the same wearying, petty, incessant, pin pricks, unencouraged by a single word. With all her affection for her mother, she could not but see her weakness in most cases; but on her aunt's judgment she relied, and what had been the result of the interview?—a decided approval of Mrs. Mansfield's wishes.
                  Let those who blame Anna Mansfield for her next step, pray to be kept from the same pit-fall. This is a mere sketch; but an outline to which all who choose may fill up the hints given. Those who believe that they would have been steadfast to the end, will have my admiration, if, when their day of trial comes, they hold firmly to the right; but—as we look around, have we not cause to think that there are many Mrs. Mansfields, and, alas! many Annas?
                  There came an evening, at length, when on Miss Mansfield's finger shone a great diamond, which dazzled tiny Clara's eyes and made her uncognizant of the tears in her sister's, as she asked wonderingly, "Where did you get such a beau-ti-ful ring?"
                  Mrs. Mansfield triumphantly said, "That is a secret, Clara."
                  "No secret for you, my little darling," Anna answered very low and gravely. "Mr. Gordon gave it to me as a pledge that I am to marry him."
                  "Do you love him, Annie?" Clara said, swallowing her surprise, with great, open, childish eyes.
                  "Don't ask foolish questions, Clara," her mother cried angrily. But the tears now rolled down the elder sister's white cheek, and she held the little girl close to her bosom, as she whispered, "you shall come and live with me, my own, and when you marry, I will not need, if God helps me, to ask you that question."
                  The day came—hurried on—and Anna Mansfield was Mrs. Norman Gordon. She was the owner of houses and lands—gold and silver—a perjured conscience and a bleeding heart. Very fine possessions were they, truly, and very proud Mrs. Mansfield was and is, of the hand she had in this righteous barter.
                  I see Mrs. Gordon frequently; she is very pale and cold, and kind. She has no children—Clara does live with her. Mr. Gordon is not happy, evidently; he has nothing to complain of in his wife. She is scrupulously polite to him, but there is not an atom of sympathy between them. He is prejudiced, uncultivated; and now that he has her, is terribly afraid of being ruled by her. It is a joyless household, and a very rich one. I watch Mrs. Mansfield's greedy gaze lighten broader and broader as the blaze of plate—the measured footfall of a train of servants—the luxurious profusion of their constant service, are spread out before her. She treads the "velvet pile" of carpets with a happy step, and adores her daughter's noble brow, when she sees shimmering upon it—reflecting a thousand lights—the mass of brilliants that binds, in its costly clasp, the struggling thoughts of what was once Anna Mansfield.
                  So we leave them. What of the end of all this? Is this grand automaton really dead, or does a heart, young and still untouched, lurk—strong, free and dangerous—in that quiet, unmoved and stately figure?
               
               
                  NO. III.
                  A MALE FLIRT.
                  SHARON SPRINGS have never been a strictly fashionable resort; but every summer there are, besides invalids and quiet people, a few brilliant specimens of the "gay world," who dance, drive, dine, and dash for a week or two, lighting up the subdued tone of the place most miraculously, and then disappear on their way to Newport or Saratoga.
                  Sometimes, the moving spirit of such a party is a beautiful woman, who, followed by a long line of admirers, and surrounded by a circle of friends, makes mirth and melody, "with rings on her fingers (but not bells on her toes), wherever she goes." Sometimes, the leader is a young man, popular and gay, with plenty of money, plenty of time, and a strong disposition to share these gifts with every one.
                  
                  In the month of August, some few years back, the hotel on the hill, a very different place from the "chocolate houses" near the springs, was having a gay time of it under the auspices of Charles Vernon: he was twenty-five—his own master—singularly handsome and wonderfully agreeable.
                  They had been very dull before his arrival; the band played incessantly to undancing feet: girls yawned in corners of the piazza all the evening; the ten-pin alleys were perfect deserts, and the romantic woods were only frequented by sober couples, who were never late for tea, and never lost themselves accidentally.
                  Mr. Vernon's coming was like the breaking up of spring to an ice-bound winter. He disseminated by his first smile a genial atmosphere. He arrived just after dinner; that night there was the first dance of the season, and men and women, who had considered each other not worth knowing, and had kept up a solemn series of distant bows, suddenly discovered, on both sides, that the opposite parties were "very pleasant people," and launched into "eternal friendships."
                  Never was there any one so popular as Charles Vernon; and at the first glance he seemed deservedly vedly so. His only apparent object was to make every one happy and comfortable—in that laudable design consisted his own pleasure. Two days he devoted himself to the general service; he was at every woman's feet—at every man's wish. He set the ball in motion—energetically, charmingly, and so successfully, that it could not easily be stopped again; meanwhile the piercing search of his apparently careless eye was all the time seeking the game he wished. These forty-eight hours given exclusively to the public, were only the foundation laid for his private entertainment. At the end of that time he had studied, examined and decided.
                  Close at her father's side, knowing very few persons, gentle and timid, Charles Vernon discovered one of the loveliest little creatures that ever hid itself from admiration, and needed a strong hand to bring it from its voluntary and involuntary seclusion.
                  A few carelessly put questions gave him her name—"Miss Dudley"—and a few more found out an acquaintance who was willing to introduce him to both father and daughter. One deep, earnest look he gave to the shrinking beauty—one profoundly foundly respectful bow, and then he entered into conversation with the old gentleman, whose health had brought them to Sharon.
                  Mr. Dudley was a widower—a retired merchant—two married daughters—a moderate competence and this little blushing girl—his youngest—just from school, seeing the world for the first time. After a half hour's chat (it was nearly nine o'clock in the evening), the band began a waltz, and uneasy looks came to Charles Vernon from his "party."
                  "What does Charley mean, I wonder?" asked Mrs. Conway, a bright, good tempered, pretty widow. "He has been talking ever so long to those people."
                  "Charley has 'flushed' a new bird," somebody answered, laughing. "He is at his old tricks."
                  "Well, I wish he would bring his 'old tricks' with him, and let us dance."
                  Ten minutes elapsed; the expectant group were fidgety. They did not begin without him; but one gentleman indignantly proposed it. As if he divined the exact moment when their patience was exhausted, Mr. Vernon rose just as the proposition grew in strength.
                  "Will you dance, Miss Dudley?" he inquired, addressing her for the first time, in the slow, measured and quiet voice, and with the gentle manner from which he had never varied during his whole conversation with her father.
                  The young lady colored, glanced at Mr. Dudley, and answered hastily, "No, thank you."
                  "Why won't you dance, Azzy?"
                  "I would rather not. I am afraid," she murmured.
                  "I am sure you dance very prettily, my dear."
                  "I am sure you must dance charmingly," said Mr. Vernon, with a glance of such deep and respectful admiration, that Miss Dudley's sweet blue eyes sank still lower, till their black lashes trembled on her flushed cheek.
                  "What a timid little goose you are, Azzy!" said her father, tenderly.
                  "I don't know any one, and they are going to dance the 'German,'" she half whispered. "Indeed, I would rather not, papa."
                  Charles pressed her no further. "I am very sorry," he said; "may I hope to be more successful another time?"
                  He shook hands with Mr. Dudley, bowed again to Miss Dudley, and retired to his "set," of whom the ladies received him half poutingly, the gentlemen with abuse and with a few jests.
                  "Where did you pick up that little girl?" asked Mrs. Conway. "Are you going to open an infant school?"
                  "'Tis the daintiest little thing!" Vernon exclaimed; "so shy and so tiny. But she is afraid of all of you. What are you waiting for? Let us dance. Mrs. Conway, may I have you as a partner?"
                  The "German" began—Vernon was leader; but through every evolution, in every figure, he contrived, so long as the Dudleys remained in the drawing-room, to convey to the "dainty little thing" that she was still uppermost in his thoughts.
                  The next morning Mrs. Conway was presented by Mr. Vernon to Miss Dudley; the widow was a thoughtless—"good enough as the world goes"—woman of the world. She was very kind to her frightened little acquaintance, and very soon the blue eyes managed to look up, and the pretty hands ceased to tremble.
                  Mrs. Conway carried her off to the ten-pin alley; and in marvellously quicktime, the gentle pensionnairenaire knew at least the names of these moustached cavaliers and their highly flounced belles. Charles Vernon was at her elbow; he taught her to throw her first ball; presently she was quite successful, and found herself among the winners. A tall, dissipated-looking man, with vicious eyes and sensual mouth, congratulated himself to her, that she was "on his side." But Mr. Vernon was on her side, and at her side too, and drew her away from Tom Bellfield's insolent gaze, before she quite understood that he was taking an inventory of her youthful charms, as if she had been for sale, like a horse or a Circassian, or—a fashionable young lady.
                  Then they went to the woods—seeking some deep, shady nook, in which to pass the mid-day hours, and seated on logs, or on the smooth turf, the gentlemen stretched lazily about, they gossiped, and some few industrious ladies, with nice hands, drew their "crochet" from their pockets, and flashed their diamond rings and taper fingers before admiring eyes.
                  "Your father calls you 'Azzy;' what is your name, Miss Dudley? I have a theory that names usually correspond to their owners——. I can't guess from what sweet feminine cognomen comes 'Azzy!'"
                  They were a little apart from the principal group. Miss Dudley was placed on a slight elevation, like a rustic throne, and Vernon half reclining, plucked at the leaves of the tree under which they rested, while he spoke. His attitude of listless grace was perfect.
                  "My name is very romantic," she answered, with her usual rising color—a color which was constantly mounting and retreating—giving the loveliest modesty and charm to a very pretty face. "Papa calls me Azzy, but I was christened 'Azalea.' My mother loved those flowers, and they called me, when she died, after them. My elder sister already had her name—Catharine."
                  Vernon shook his head. "'Azalea' does not suit you. Pretty, fragrant, they are; but, too stiff, too hard, too self-evident. I could have chosen a better name. 'Violet' is too common, 'Rose' ditto, Daisy would have suited better, and yet Daisy would not do. No, I give it up. Like many others, about many things I see the fault, but can't correct it. Had I studied botany, I might have found some soft and thrilling syllables, allied to some exquisite site production of nature's choicest mood, which would"——. He paused without finishing the sentence, and broke off a whole cluster of leaves, with a quick yet earnest glance at his companion. "Alas," he went on, with a playful gesture of despair— 
                        
                           "'My only books were women's looks,
                           And folly's all they've taught me!'
                        
                      "How we waste our lives, Miss Dudley, and wake up some day to find ourselves ever so old and amazingly ignorant."
                  "I have not quite come to that yet," Azalea said, laughing. She was getting used to Vernon. "The ignorance, I admit—the age has not arrived. I was seventeen last month."
                  "I wish I were seventeen; and yet my years have not been profitless, nor my 'studies' neither, for I believe that at least I have learned to appreciate the really beautiful in woman. It is rare, very rare, and we go through 'sloughs of despair' to reach it; but if we seek truly and with earnest hearts, God has given us the 'divining rod'—the spirit to understand and know—when the 'hidden treasure,' the untold, unseen gold is near us."
                  
                  Fancy this, murmured in the most melodious voice, by the most expressive lips, aided by the most lustrous eyes, and levelled at an innocent, unsuspicious, intelligent girl, who had never read six novels, and never been "in society."
                  "Hello, Charley, don't you see the rain?" cried Tom Bellfield.
                  "My dear Miss Dudley," exclaimed Mrs. Conway, "what will your papa say to me? To ask him for you—to promise to be careful of you, and then to expose you to such dangers." And the laughing lady looked from the dark sky with its scudding, heavy clouds, to Mr. Vernon—a second longer at the last than at the first.
                  A momentary consultation ensued—should they make a run for the house, or see how far the trees would shelter them? While debating, the clouds settled the question, by proving that the trees were no protection at all. Down came the rain, a perfect deluge. One umbrella only, the party possessed; it had been so clear until the previous ten minutes. Under this umbrella the half dozen ladies clustered, piled upon each other's laps, and while the gentlemen just "took it" so, a couple of waiters were seen pelting toward them, dimly visible through the blinding waters.
                  "Umbrellas for twenty, we hope." It proved to be lunch for fifteen.
                  "Confound you! why didn't you leave this trash behind, and bring umbrellas?"
                  "Lunch was ordered, sir, and we started before the rain."
                  "Then pitch these delicious-looking cakes to the devil, and bring umbrellas—carriages—something."
                  "Certainly, Bellfield; likewise a balloon, also a steam engine with a train of cars and a track. We are in for it now. Who'll have a 'cobbler' à l'eau?"
                  "The 'cobblers' are pretty good," said Bellfield. "I don't know how they escaped."
                  "So strong, they shook off the rain, doubtless."
                  "Give us a 'cobbler,' gentlemen," cried Mrs. Conway, from the pretty group under the umbrella.
                  A rush was made—half a dozen straws inserted in a huge rummer, and in half a minute half a dozen pairs of rosy lips were imbibing.
                  Azalea laughingly declined.
                  "It will do you good, my dear," said Mrs. Conway, "try it."
                  "Don't refuse," whispered Vernon, and Azalea's timid little mouth took her share. Mrs. Conway nodded and smiled.
                  "We had better start for the hotel. This infernal storm will last, heaven knows how long," said Bellfield. "The ladies are only making believe under that umbrella, that they are dry."
                  "That's true. There is a river running down my back," complained Alice Munroe. She was next to Azalea.
                  "Are you wet?" inquired Vernon, anxiously.
                  "Not in the least. I am so little that nothing harms me."
                  "Nothing should harm you," he again whispered, almost tenderly. Then hastily divesting himself of his coat, which was a thick but loose morning sack, he said:
                  "Let all men of gallantry follow my example, and happier than Sir Walter, our favored garments will enwrap these lovely creatures, instead of only being trodden under foot. Pray put this on," he urged Azalea.
                  "This lady suffers more than I do," she answered in a low voice, glancing toward Miss Munroe.
                  "I would rather get a rheumatic shoulder for you," said Vernon. By this time each lady was provided, and laughing heartily at their droll appearance, the calvalcade left the woods, and struck out over the fields for the house.
                  As usual, the women had the worst of it. Their attendants only looked, some a little picturesque, with a red or blue scarf tied around their waists, others designedly comical, with a garden hat and its black lace bordering, perched on their heads; but the muddy skirts, and exhausted crinoline and battered looks of the feminines, made most of them anything but pretty.
                  However, among them, Azalea's little figure, enveloped in Vernon's coat, was transformed into a disguised fairy, and amused by the child-like romp, and more at ease in such a strait than she would have been in the mazes of the "German," her lovely face flashed up into animation, and her low musical laugh rung out, silvery and clear, and distinct, from the louder demonstrations of the other ladies.
                  Alas! Charley Vernon was prouder than ever of his discovery; all the men were finding out the lustre of this little gem, and she—she turned confidingly from compliment and from admiring look, to her first acquaintance of the previous night, who returned each innocent glance with such earnest and beautiful confidence.
                  The rain ceased as they neared the house, and without warning, just as he had retired a half hour before, behold, out burst the naughty sun, lighting up with full blaze the rain bedraggled procession—heads from every window were watching their return, and they had to run the gauntlet of many quizzing remarks before they all gained their different apartments.
                  As soon as she reached her own room, Azalea rang for the chambermaid to restore Mr. Vernon's coat. On taking it off, from the breast pocket fell out a memorandum book; the clasp unfastened, a pencil was inserted between two of the leaves; on replacing it, her own name caught Azalea's eye—she could not help seeing—"a very lovely little girl—Miss Dudley—woman, in her sweetness, intelligence and cultivation—child, in her simplicity and unsophistication. I gather this from her countenance only; but I have never yet failed in reading faces. Have I found at last"——Azalea stopped, blushing and shocked; she would read no more, no, not a word; and horrified at her own dishonorable action in thus waylaying a stranger's private thoughts, she hurriedly closed the little book, and began to remove her disordered dress, pertinaciously refusing even to see where the coat lay, until the entrance of the chambermaid.
                  After dinner Mrs. Conway invited her to drive; Mr. Vernon and another gentleman filled the open carriage. They went far into the country; the moon rose—it was a delicious drive.
                  "Oh, papa! I enjoyed it so very much!" was her exclamation when Mr. Dudley met them on their return, and they all went in to tea.
                  Mr. Dudley thanked Mrs. Conway for her kindness to his "little girl." "She has been very dull heretofore, but to-day has been a brilliant change for her."
                  "Then I hope to make each day of my stay as pleasant to Miss Dudley. It is a mutual gratification, I assure you, sir."
                  Azalea danced that evening; she was surprised to find how quickly her embarrassment vanished. But Mr. Vernon was so careful of her; so kind and attentive. True, she had to pay the penalty of this extraordinary and almost exclusive devotion, by meeting the cross looks of a good many ladies, who "saw nothing wonderful in that little Dudley;" but she was certainly very attractive in her simple, rose-colored dress, with its narrow lace just edging an exquisitely white and fresh pair of shoulders, and round, soft, taper arms. Her black hair was as smooth as satin, without ornament but its own glossiness and profusion. She did dance very prettily, and enjoyed it, floating along with glancing feet, and the lightness of youth and health, and an excellent partner.
                  When they retired for the night, she gave her hand frankly to Mr. Vernon, as if he had been an old friend; and hanging from her father's arm like a rose-bud on a rugged stem, she responded to his "I shall see you at breakfast," with a smilingly earnest, "I hope so."
                  What bright dreams, by day and by night, now visited the busy and innocent brain of pretty, foolish, poor little Azalea.
                  How soon did she begin to love Charles Vernon? Perhaps she never knew. She knew that very soon she learned to recognize his coming step—to watch for the sound of his low-pitched voice—to listen to his every word as if they were the accents most dear to her—to rejoice when he joined her—to feel sad when he spoke to any other woman—to ask his advice in trifles—to regulate her actions by his request. And so passed three weeks; three blissful, happy weeks.
                  The season was drawing to a close. Each day carried off coach-loads of visitors, and unlike the previous two months, there were no fresh comers via Canajoharie.
                  It was the last evening at Sharon. Early the next morning Mr. Vernon was to leave for Canada; in the afternoon the Dudleys for their southern home.
                  At one end of the long piazza was a couple—rather silent; the star-lit heavens only faintly showed their outlines as they thus sat—his elbow rested on the balustrade, and his eyes scanned her sweet face in its rather mournful calmness.
                  "And what shall you do this winter?" Vernon asked after a long pause.
                  "Stay at home, I presume."
                  "Won't you be in New York, at all?"
                  "Certainly not."
                  "Is it quiet at——?"
                  "Very."
                  "You and your father live alone, I believe?"
                  "Yes."
                  
                  "We have enjoyed these three weeks very much," Vernon went on, softly; "it seems hard to part now, not knowing when we shall ever meet again. I cannot bear to think that I shall not see you for a great while."
                  No answer.
                  "If I were to pay a visit to——, would you be glad to see me?"
                  Azalea's heart fluttered, her voice faltered; the time had come, and of course she began to put it off.
                  "Papa would be delighted," she said evasively; "and had we not better join him now? He does not like cards, and that unmerciful old Mrs. Shand took possession of him."
                  Vernon gently detained her.
                  "Listen to me, Azalea. I wish to tell you something before we part. You look upon me as a friend, do you not? I want to assure you of how strong is my feeling for you—a brother could not cherish a dear little sister more than I love you. In fact, I have often feared that, considering my position, I have cared too much for you, and perhaps it is best, much as I feel this 'good bye' now, perhaps it is best that it has to be said. While you, in your sweet purity, have only looked upon me as an old fellow, good enough to dance with and talk to, I have often found myself too near the brink of a——well, well, let that pass," as a hasty gesture from Azalea interrupted him.
                  "You are a beautiful creature, and your beauty is but the commencement, the foundation of your attractions. Had we met earlier, or had I waited longer before taking an irrevocable step in life, I am very sure that I should long since have been a suppliant at your feet. But I have spared you the pain (I am sure your gentleness would find it pain), of placing me on the list of your rejected. I aspire to be your friend—will you not let me be your friend, Azalea? and to cement our friendship, I will tell you a secret. I have been engaged for a year to Miss Egerton—Florence Egerton—of whom you heard Mrs. Conway speaking the other day. She has been in Europe for the last six months with her invalid mother, and they return this autumn, and we shall be married immediately. I know that she will like you; she is very amiable, not handsome, but good, and she has been attached to me in the most faithful manner since my boyhood. I am utterly unworthy of such a devotion, of which she is proud and tenacious. If I can persuade her to make a visit to——this winter, I shall bring her to see you. Will you include her in your welcome?"
                  He waited at length for a reply—none came. He might have talked on much longer with the same result. Azalea's head had, from the first, leaned upon the high back of her chair—it was motionless, and her eyes were closed. Vernon took her hand—it was cold and nerveless; the little fingers fell through his light clasp, and—he saw that she had fainted.
                  I think Vernon was slightly miserable at that moment. Here was an inoffensive, feminine, love-able young girl, whose beauty and whose liveliness had touched, interested and amused him for three weeks. Unfortunately, this sudden accident seemed to reveal the disagreeable truth, that she cared for him more than he absolutely desired.
                  "What a cursed chance!" he muttered. "Poor little Azalea, why the deuce aren't women, in some things, more like men?" He did not lose his presence of mind; they were near the dining-room windows—he rushed off, got a glass of water, and assisted by the darkness of the piazza and the scarcity of promenaders, he was enabled, unperceived, to sprinkle her forehead, to chafe her hands and to restore her to consciousness, without exciting any observation.
                  First, a deep sigh struggled from the pale lips, the eyes slowly opened, and Azalea remembered! A burning blush overspread her face, and with a woman's inherent prevarication, rendered necessary in such a scene as this, she gasped out—"I am used to fainting. I—I—faint constantly. Don't be uneasy, Mr. Vernon. I am quite well now."
                  Her tone was cold, yet hopeless. She arose, quivering, and held out her hand. "You were telling me," she said, "of your—marriage. I offer my congratulations. Good bye. I have to thank you for a pleasant visit to Sharon."
                  In those few seconds, from a girl, trembling, timid and unworldly, Azalea Dudley grew into a woman, with every pulse beating, but every muscle striving to subdue an emotion she would die rather than display.
                  Charles Vernon accompanied her to her father; he did not know what else to say; she took so grand an air, she bewildered him. Again they repeated "good bye," and the last evening at Sharon was ended.
                  
                  Mrs. Conway's house was open to her friends, her acquaintances and her enemies—she was giving a ball. It was nearly twelve o'clock, when she was summoned, by a warning voice, to receive some new guests. She turned round and welcomed Mr. and Mrs. Vernon.
                  "Ah, Florence! glad to see you at last—gave you up. Well, Charley—I may call him Charley still, mayn't I? There is an old friend of yours here, Charley—I want you to see her at once if your wife is not jealous."
                  "Jealous, oh no!" cried Mrs. Vernon hastily, and casting her pale grey eyes uneasily around. She was very plain and thin, but had a feeble, good-natured face. She was dressed extravagantly, and was a great heiress.
                  "Who is it?" asked Vernon, as, after depositing his wife on a neighboring chair among some acquaintances, he gave his arm to his lively companion.
                  "Well, I think you will recognize her, although it is more than two years since you met. She is spending the winter with me. La voilà."
                  A beautiful figure had just paused in the waltz, lifting her great eyes confidently and boldly to her danseur, and making some remark which caused him to laugh immoderately. She carried her small head, with its coronal of jetty hair, like an empress; and her lips, exquisitely chiselled as they were, surprised you by their scornful and contemptuous curve. A deep, dark shadow beneath the very black lashes, gave a peculiar expression of force to the features—these were regular and might once have been soft, but were so no longer. Her very attitude, as she stood gracefully disdainful, was the incarnation of fierce pride. Her look seemed to say—"Admire me, but I scorn your admiration."
                  Vernon paused, struck dumb.
                  "Is she not magnificent?" inquired Mrs. Conway, as he turned toward her. "So much improved, from the shy, blushing little girl at Sharon."
                  "Then it is Azalea Dudley?"
                  "Of course it is. Go and speak to her; she remembers you."
                  
                  Remembered him, yes! and prepared for him too. Vernon advanced hesitatingly, slowly. With a careless laugh, oh, so different in its hollow ring, from the sweet, low music of her former merriment! Azalea met him, defiant in her unconcerned and indifferent welcome. "She was very well. Was Mrs. Vernon with him? He had been some time abroad?"—waited politely and coolly to listen to his answers. "Papa! quite well too?" He lingered, watching her cold, beautiful face, yearning for a glimpse of the Azalea, for whom the names of "Violet," of "Rose," of "Daisy," were too hackneyed for its fresh and budding sweetness, and finding only this hard and haughty lady, who presently bowed, as if a queen dismissing a subject who overstayed his audience.
                  He retired a pace or two, and fixed his attention upon her. Vainly he tried to detect a sign of feeling, past or present. Dazzling in its varied play, but utterly cold, her countenance was like the surface of a deep and frosty lake, on which the sunshine glitters and the ripples dance, but both danger and death are beneath.
                  In the folds of white crape which crossed hercorsage, a ruby heart rose and fell with the tranquil heaving of her sculptured bust; legends of fairy lore might have told, that this sparkling stone was in very truth the heart of Azalea Dudley, worn for "daws to peck at," and break their beaks in the attempt.
                  But Vernon was soon surrounded by old acquaintances—forced from his study of his "Sharon flirtation," and obliged to answer and to ask innumerable questions after his long absence. To escape this necessity, he pushed through the crowd, and wandering on without object, he found himself after a while in the last of the suite of rooms—a lady's library—half books, half pictures, and quite deserted.
                  Throwing himself into a chair—glad to be away from every one—he mused regretfully and sadly. Conscience whispered "this is thy work." Habit denied it—unbelief questioned it—reason admitted it. He had never seen Miss Dudley since the evening she fainted beside him at Sharon—had scarcely heard of her, and yet, he could not help the thought that it was his careless "amusement" of three idle weeks, which had transformed that lovely, modest, feminine girl into this cruelly self-asserting woman. He tried to assure himself that his vanity magnified the power he had exercised, but it was in vain. Like most "men of the world," nothing was more grievous to him than such a change—for while the arts of this class daily work such results—while they seek "to brush the bloom" from innocence and unsophistication—they reserve their admiration always, for the very qualities they destroy.
                  A hasty step approached his hiding-place; he rapidly wheeled around his chair so that its high carved back might conceal him, and thus faced a closed door, which he had not before noticed. The trailing skirts betrayed a woman, and she swept beside him, to gain this door. He sprang to his feet, and their eyes met. Vernon saw the anguished look—the discomposed features—the wild gaze which characterized her whole expression. Azalea Dudley, with her mask cast aside? One instant only she was thus revealed to him, and then, slow, stately, listless, she raised her softly majestic arm, and "I am sorry to disturb you," dropped from her scornful lips, as she motioned him to resume his seat.
                  "This way leads to my room, and I am about to repair an accident to my dress. Pray don't disturb yourself."
                  Her hand was upon the lock.
                  "Let me speak to you," Vernon implored.
                  Her haughty eyes opened in well-feigned wonder.
                  "Certainly. Why not?"
                  Leaning against the wall, she looked straight at him without quailing—without the slightest emotion.
                  "You may think me an impertinent simpleton," Vernon began; "but—it seems to me—as if we ought to have met less like strangers, more—more kindly. The interest with which you inspired me on our short acquaintance was deeper than you supposed"——
                  "Do you desire me to consider you strangely impertinent?" Azalea interrupted, with a strong inflexion of contempt in her tone.
                  "Pardon me—don't misunderstand me. I only wished—the fact is"——
                  The blue eyes, once so tender and so true, cut him like steel; he stopped.
                  Miss Dudley raised her hand again with its now habitual gesture of command; and that was the most striking change in her. Little altered in her actual stature, perfect in her tiny proportions, she had the dignity and air of a majestic woman.
                  There was a momentary silence, and then she spoke:
                  "Accident has brought about this meeting; you have chosen to take advantage of it—now listen to me. Ordinary women would, perhaps, conceal what I am going to say, but to my mind, it shows you how little I esteem you—how little I fear you—how far above you I hold myself. Two years and a half ago I was a girl of seventeen, as unsuspicious, as quiet, as inoffensive a little thing as this round world could show. You deigned to remark me—you sought my acquaintance—you lavished your attentions upon me—you gave three precious weeks of your valuable time to a just fledged bird, young enough to take your chaff for wheat. Day after day, close at my side, you taught me the mysteries of life—the jargon of love. You never said—I acquit you—you never said 'I love you;' but you implied it by look, action, word. You never aroused a woman's innate knowledge of right and wrong by undue familiarity—by coarse flattery. No; understanding thoroughly the game you played—the nature with which you had to deal—you wormed yourself into the closest recesses of a deeply passionate heart, which was united to a delicacy of feeling and sentiment which you perfectly appreciated and valued. Had you discovered in me frivolity or lightness, the prize would have sunk in your estimation. You rifled my thoughts of their first freshness—my life of its confiding belief—and when your epicurean taste had revelled long enough in this safe and agreeable feast—when you saw that your image was impressed upon the mind—your presence necessary to the happiness of this foolish little trembler—you packed your trunks, and said to her, 'Azalea, I love you as a brother; will you not be my sister?' I tell you, Charles Vernon, that if crimes which the law cannot punish, go seemingly unavenged, they are not so. Miss Egerton had wealth—you married her; she is plain, uninteresting, jealous; she gives you no cause to ill-treat her, or neglect her, for she bears your occasional impatience with such mildness that your natural good nature makes you ashamed of yourself, and you feel obliged to atone, by a devotion which wearies and harasses you. Look forward to your life—what is it? a blank. You frittered away your first years by such conduct as I have described. Heaven only could tell the number of your 'flirtations'—you yourself have forgotten them. I believe that I am the avenger of all. I don't fear an accusation of vanity. I know myself—I know my power. My presence will haunt you—what I was—what I am. As much as you can love, you will love me; you will constantly think and dream of that blue-eyed, tender girl—'woman in her sweetness, intelligence and cultivation—child in her simplicity and unsophistication'—who 'hung enamored' upon your accents, and who was struck senseless and voiceless when she learned to know you. That night 'aged' me by twenty years. Mrs. Conway thinks me greatly improved; she never ceases to say—'My dear Azalea, who would have guessed you had so much in you.' 'The world' thinks with Mrs. Conway, therefore I should thank you, the magician who wrought this wondrous transformation. I am not worse than many, nor worse off—only I have more power, because I have more beauty and the knowledge to use it. I feel no hesitation in saying this; I cannot pretend to be ignorant of what any mirror shows me, and as it has brought me no happiness so far, I value it, and speak of it according to its value. Now we know each other. You had best avoid me; I am not afraid of you, but for yourself 'discretion is the better part of valor.'"
                  Azalea bent her head, withdrew her coldly radiant eyes from his, and calm as she had been throughout her long speech, without another word left him.
                  Vernon—spell-bound—watched the closed door for ten minutes, sighed, and rejoined his wife.
               
               
                  
                  NO. IV.
                  THE BEST OF FRIENDS.
                  "TELL you a story, my dear girls!" cried Aunt Milly, removing her gold-rimmed spectacles and carefully wiping them; "how should I have any stories to tell?"
                  "Oh, yes, you must have. Think, Aunt Milly; just 'gather your recollections' a little. Like Blenda's revered grandmother, in Mrs. Carlen's 'Cousin John,' 'you have seen the world,' and must have profited by that view sufficiently to be able to entertain us with one tale at least."
                  "Seen the world, ah, my dear child, I have seen it, and the sight never gave me much pleasure. I even almost wish for you, my poor, young, innocent babies, that none of you should ever 'see the world.' I have seen good called evil, and evil good. I have seen virtue do vicious acts, and I have seen poor vice perform the highest and noblest works. I have seen the unkindest people applauded for their wonderful charity, and I have seen the warmest hearts crushed because they were misunderstood—in a word, I have seen the great spirit of 'humbug' which governs society, ride triumphant over honesty and sincerity, and I have long come to the conclusion that the earth would be a fair place to dwell in, if it were not for the men and women that inhabit it."
                  "You! Aunt Milly, you think all that—and where would you put your friends? You have the best of friends"——
                  "Stop, stop, Lucy. I protest against that phrase. Heaven defend me from having 'the best of friends.' I learned to despise those four words long, long ago. I have had and I have good friends, and some loving relations, but never accuse them in my hearing of being 'the best of friends.' They don't deserve such an insult. You need not smile. And on the whole you have gained your wish, for I think I can tell you a story, of which you have reminded me."
                  Her nieces gathered closer around the old lady, already thanking her.
                  "Don't thank me yet. I am but a dull body, as you know, and my tongue is not so loosely hung nor so gifted with words as your mother's, children. But I do recollect what you may call a story, and I'll tell it to you. If you get tired you can stop me. Years ago, when I was about your age, younger than you, Mary, just turned of sixteen, I had a friend whose name was Margaret—it don't matter the surname. Madge, she was generally called, and Madge and Milly went together as smoothly and lovingly as their sound in speaking. She was the wildest, flightiest, sauciest little puss you ever saw. Bright, full of mischief, and as really good as gold. I was much quieter than she, and not half so clever. She was a great belle, and I was only moderately admired. She would have shared her partners with me any day, as I would have shared my purse with her—for I was much the richer of the two—but both of us were proud, with all our affection for each other, and she often wore an old gown, and danced the whole evening, while I looked on in some splendid silk, with an occasional invitation to keep me from utter despair, and to take the sitting-down creases out of my famous new dress.
                  "Madge made more enemies than friends. She was so fond of laughing and joking, and people never half understood her, and thought her malicious when she was only merry. My father—your good grandpapa, my dear ones—fell into ill health when I was about seventeen, and I accompanied him to Europe, where we made the grand tour, and I studied French, and learned to sing, and took dancing lessons in Paris, and returned quite an accomplished young lady for those days, because then, girls were not taught everything as you all have been, which is very proper and right, I am sure. I heard frequently from Madge during our absence. Her letters were at first very gay and funny, and many a laugh I had over them—but before we came back I saw a change. She did not write so often, and she was fitful—sometimes quite like herself, and then very sombre and sad. It was a great pleasure to me to see her again: she came immediately to the house, and welcomed me so warmly (I had been away three years), and talked so much and so fast that I could not judge about it, nor did I even think at first to look for the change in her.
                  "But presently there was a calm, and then I noticed such a worn look about her eyes, and a nervous quiver around her mouth—it puzzled and distressed me. I asked her if she were well—'yes, quite well—what a question! did she look ill?' she answered, and then rattled on with such a false ring in her old joyous tones, that I had tears in my eyes instead of smiles on my lips. 'What a goose you are, Milly!' she said impatiently; 'what ails you?' I took her two hands in mine, and gazed fixedly at her. She dropped her head upon our joined hands and cried, oh, so bitterly!
                  "Then she told me all, children: she told me how the whole city was busy with her name, and how she was almost beside herself with horror and indignation and despair. She told me how she was persecuted by her family to marry, and how she thought she would, just to be rid of this stunning pain which pursued her day and night. 'You know me, Milly,' she said; 'I am a great coward: I can't face alone all those vile stories.'—— 'But, my darling,' I exclaimed, 'who can believe anything against you? Your life has been open as the day.' 'That is just it. I have laughed and talked and lived freely, innocently, without disguise. Had I hid in corners and done a thousand things which I know of others doing, I would have escaped censure. They turn against me the very fearlessness which my innocence of harm gave me.' 'But your friends,' I said, 'where are they?' 'I have the best of friends,' she answered, smiling sadly, 'and this is their counsel—marry.' What is that book you all rave over—that wonderful book by that Mr. Thackeray? 'The Newcomes,' that is it. Do you recollect Lady Clara's marriage with Barnes Newcome? When I read what he says about that marriage and the preparations for it, I thought of my poor Madge. There was no 'Jack Belsize' in the case: she was fancy free, but she cared no more for her affianced lover than I did, and I could not bear him. Her father and mother kept on praising him, it seems, and putting him in the best light, and showing Madge plenty of sunshine wherever he stood, and a great deal of darkness for her, everywhere else. She was weary and dispirited, and they petted her, and consoled her, and encouraged her, when she would listen to this gentleman's addresses, and were very grim and cross when she was restive and unwilling.
                  "I thought it a great wickedness, children, as I do still, to make such a marriage, and instead of urging it, I wondered that her parents did not oppose it; but 'the world' judged differently, and my own dear mamma, blessed angel as she is at this moment, often said to me, 'Milly, daughter, Madge has the best of friends, and they know what is best for her happiness."
                  "Well, dears, I was bridesmaid, first bridesmaid, and I stood beside my poor pale darling when she gave herself with solemn oaths to a man whom I knew, and she knew, and all her people knew, she didn't like, and when the bishop asked about any one being aware of a just cause or impediment, I could scarcely keep from crying out, that I knew impediment enough in all conscience, to stop such ungodly proceedings—but I didn't, and they were married, and what a marriage it was! Paired, but not mated, surely. He did not suit her, and she did not suit him, and there were quarrels and bickerings and heart-burning. She flirted, and he hunted and rode about the country, and everybody said 'What a shame!'
                  "Then I used to get angry and ask what was to be expected when a young girl was coaxed into a union without love or decent esteem: but that only made things worse, for I was invariably answered that she had the best of friends, who only acted for her good, and now she was distressing them by her wild ways more than ever. After a while, Madge sobered down a little: she had a pair of pretty boys, and if she had only had for a husband one who could have taken the reins, and guided her properly and made her respect him, I think they might have got along. But she was his superior and scorned him: and he lost his temper and flew out at her, and oh, my dears, it was dreadful. Everybody did not know the full truth, however, because they were seldom seen together, only Madge's mind being bright and grasping, she was continually taking up studies and people—all sorts of odd people, who taught her all sorts of odd things. She built an observatory and went star-gazing with a German in blue spectacles; I am sure I don't know what he could see through them. Madge told me he was a genius. He might have been, but he never looked clean. Then she got tired of the stars, and took to botany, with a Frenchman all snuff and red handkerchief. After botany came painting—then music—scientific music with never a tune in it—and another Frenchman.
                  "Poor thing! she was unhappy and ambitious, and she tried to fill up her life in this way. And so, the city kept the list of her different great friends, her masters as she called them, and said it was 'very strange.' Old Mrs. Marshall, who never left her own house, and knew more news than anybody, could entertain her visitors by the hour with tales of poor Madge. Gradually, folks turned a cold shoulder upon her, and she began to receive slights from this one and rudeness from that one.
                  "With all her cleverness and superiority, she was very sensitive—a dunce could hurt her through her feelings. She became sad and more dissatisfied than ever. The tears would roll out of her large, black, wistful eyes when she talked to me about some one's coldness or some one's indifference to her. And it really seemed as if it were exactly from those who owed her most, that she got the least.
                  "I used to say to her, 'why do you mind it, Madge? It is because they see that they can hurt you, that some people do these things. Shut your eyes and your ears. Live with those that love you. 'Who loves me, Milly?' 'Who loves you? why plenty of people. There is your family. You have the best of friends.'
                  "'Have I?' she asked, looking vaguely ahead—'then I wish I could exchange them for the worst.' 'My dear,' I exclaimed, 'how can you?'——
                  "'Milly,' she went on, taking my hand, 'who do you suppose my sister Julia dined with yesterday? Lucy Murray, who cut me last week. Who do you think my two brothers are entertaining in the country? Barry Davis, who spoke of me so impertinently at a supper, that my good old friend, George Dunlap, rose up and said that he should be answerable to him for such remarks.'
                  "'But Madge, your sister and brothers don't know this.'
                  "'I told them.'
                  "'And what did they say?'
                  "'That they could not eternally be fighting my battles.'
                  "'Had you any previous quarrel with these people?'
                  "'None, whatsoever.'
                  "'Ever offended them?'
                  "'No—except being very kind to them. I begin to think that civility is perhaps offensive.'
                  "'And your papa and mamma?'
                  "Madge shrugged her shoulders.
                  "'Do they approve of this?'
                  "'They don't forbid it.'
                  "'Why should you care, dear? Lucy Murray is a very trifling sort of girl, and Barry Davis is a conceited coxcomb. They are no loss.'
                  "'Do you fancy I am mourning for their loss?' Madge said, and she kissed me and went away.
                  "So it began, and estrangement grew up between Madge and her family. She was one, and they were very numerous. She tried to make things better and only made them worse. She thought herself aggrieved, and they said that she was exacting. Madge was unpopular, and her family strove after popularity. She cringed to nobody, and spoke out her thoughts. Her temper was soured, her tongue quick and cutting—oh, bless me, what a bitter thing to suffer as she did—what a sad thing for so much misery to grow out of what might have been turned into nothing!
                  "She quarrelled with almost every one at last: she was a perfect Ishmael—her hand against every man and every man's hand against her.
                  "Trifles which to any one else would have proved trifles, sunk their claws into her very heart, and clung there like a wild beast's fangs.
                  "She was in the right when she started, but opposition and neglect had strengthened her morbid resentment, and although she had the 'best of friends' they did not think it worth their while to yield an inch to save this throbbing, wounded, sensitive creature one cruel pang.
                  "I interfered and remonstrated at last. I spoke to one of her sisters—a pert piece she was, that Julia—Heaven forgive me, but to this day I can't bear the sight of her—and I asked her to consider where all this would end. 'It is Madge's own fault,' she said, coolly, 'we all love her and appreciate her. We are her best friends, and she runs away from us.'
                  "'A droll way you have of showing your friendship,' said I, quite in a heat—for, my dear girls, I am sorry to say I had a bit of a temper of my own. 'I suppose it is accidental,' said I, 'that you are always getting up intimacies with people as soon as they are rude to Madge: that is the way you appreciate her.'
                  "'Excuse me, Miss Milly,' Julia answered, putting on a dignified air, 'I can't permit you to interfere in our domestic circle. Our sister is very dear to us, and we deeply deplore her unhappy frame of mind. We are ready to receive her with forgiveness and open arms whenever she choses.'
                  "'Forgiveness!' I exclaimed.
                  
                  "'Yes, forgiveness,' she repeated, and fell to admiring the trimming of my new cloak.
                  "My dears, I could have beaten her, indeed I could. I looked into her mealy face, I made her a low courtesy, and I have never entered their doors since.
                  "When I told my dear mamma, she calmed down my indignation and exhorted me to a more Christian mind. 'They think they are right—no doubt they do,' she said to me. 'They are Madge's own family, it is her own nest.'
                  "It is not,' I said, angrily; 'it is an empty relationship—they are all talk and palaver.'
                  "Well, children, one day Madge sent for me. I found her trunks packed, and she had on a travelling dress. 'Where now?' I called out. 'God knows!' she said, embracing me and weeping. 'My boys are sent to school by their father, why should I stay?'
                  "'Oh, Madge! Madge!' It was all I could say.
                  "'Don't distress yourself, darling,' she whispered; 'have no fears for me. I shall not prove unworthy of your esteem. You can trust me.'
                  "'But what are your plans?'
                  "'I have none. My godfather's legacy gives me six hundred dollars a year—with that, I am above want. I shall drift with the tide wherever it takes me.'
                  "'But, my precious Madge—you are too young and pretty,' for she was very pretty, you know—if I have not told you so before. 'You are too young and pretty to—to' ——
                  "'Never fear. Kiss me now, good bye. I will write to you.' She threw herself into my arms and hugged me close to her. I was so bewildered and confused, that I did not know what to do. It was like a dream. She put a little ring on my finger—I wear it still—see, my dears, this little ring of chased gold, it was the dearest thing to her that she owned, for she had loved and lost, while I was in Europe, a gentleman who died before their tacit engagement had been announced, and he had given it to her.
                  "While I stood gazing, moon-struck, upon her, helpless and stupid, her trunks were lifted out, and she was gone. Her husband was in the country.
                  "Oh, what a storm was raised! I was blamed for not stopping her. The 'world,' said she, was a romantic, wrong-headed simpleton, and her family, her 'best of friends,' declared that I had assisted in, and counselled this rash step.
                  "I don't say that she was right, children, but I know that she was very unhappy and wrought up to a pitch of temporary madness. Her family should have surrounded her with affection and sympathy and kindness. They marked every turn of her wayward, desponding, wretched moods from afar off, and did not abate one jot of their ideas to save this naturally noble and rare creature from the consequences of her rashness and her misery.
                  "If her belief that she was enduring persecution were only a fancy, it did not any the less necessitate every effort on their side to banish this fancy.
                  "I had no patience with their lamentations; I would not listen to their reproaches. As they had sowed, so they reaped. I thought only of my poor Madge, fleeing away with the arrow in her breast. I longed to hear from her—I was impatient to know where she was—what she was doing.
                  "At length, a letter came—I could find it for you, but it is locked away up-stairs, and it is so late now that I must hurry on, for it is past bed-time."
                  "Oh, never mind bed-time, Aunt Milly."
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I remember every word of it: 'Dear Milly,' it said, 'I am well. Let this suffice you. Don't examine the post-mark—my letter will not be mailed from my residence. Don't forget me—but you must not write to me, nor shall I write again. Our paths lie forever apart. My only hope and wish are to make a new existence for myself. I shall watch over my children, although they will not know it, just yet. Again I repeat, have no fears for me. Do you remember the old lines we used to like so much? 
                                    
                                       " ' "If aught should tempt my soul to stray.
                                       From Heavenly wisdom's narrow way;
                                       To fly the good I would pursue,
                                       Or do the thing I would not do;
                                       Still He who felt temptation's power,
                                       Shall guard me in that dangerous hour,
                                    
                                    
                                       "If wounded love my bosom swell,
                                       Despised by those I prized too well,
                                       He shall his pitying aid bestow,
                                       Who felt on earth severer woe;
                                       At once betrayed, denied, and fled,
                                       By those who shared his daily bread."
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                              "'God bless you, Milly!—God forever bless you!
                              
                                 MADGE.'
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "That was all. Oh, how I cried over this letter! Yes, she was romantic, and she was very, very wrong. To leave her children, too—that was a terrible sin; but not on her head should the blame fall. The crime of this, to my mind, rested on 'the best of friends.' Perhaps I was partial, perhaps I was hard upon them; but I never hated any mortal on my own account—here, in my seventy-second year, I can say I never had a personal enemy; but I did hate Madge's people, and that is a sad truth, my dear girls.
                  "Years went by—I married. I had a worthy and a kind husband; he lived but a short time, and I was left a lonely widow, with never a child to comfort me. Yes, darlings, you did nestle your curly heads, as you do this moment, on my knees, when you came into the world, and I know you all three love your old aunt; but it was a long, long time between my widowhood and your mother's marriage. Bless you, my children. Well, as I said, this was Madge's only letter, and no more did I hear which could possibly refer to her, until there came a rumor that one of our town's-people people had seen a great actress who was turning all heads, and in that charming and gifted woman he thought he recognized our Madge!
                  "The murmur grew and was believed—others saw her—and had no doubt that it was she—but if addressed she denied her identity with haughty surprise. She passed for an Englishwoman. I wrote to her under her new name. I received no answer. I wrote again; the same result. I would have gone to the city where she was performing, but your good grandmamma was too old and feeble for me to leave her.
                  "Madge's family kept a profound silence on the subject. There was one circumstance which strengthened the belief that it was she—the manager of our theatre could not by the most liberal offers engage her to come here.
                  "After a triumphant career in this country, she returned to England, where her success was unbounded. Since the days of Mrs. Woffington and Mrs. Bellamy, there had not been seen so exquisite and joyous a creature. She was a rival of Mrs. Jordan. On the stage, she was frolicksome, wicked, capricious, laughter-loving, perfect. Off the boards, she was reported to be the saddest and quietest of women—living very retired, very economically—laying by each year vast sums, investing them to the best advantage, realizing a princely fortune—for whom? She seemed to have neither relative nor friend.
                  "Fourteen years had passed since Madge's departure—her name was almost forgotten—yet, besides the notion that in this actress lived my friend, we knew that she was not dead, for her husband took a fancy to marry again; it was merely a report—hardly authenticated, but it was not a month old, when a letter, dated from a village in the West, post-marked there, came to a certain lawyer with the request that it should be given to Mr.——, to Madge's husband. 'Sir,' it said, 'if you marry, it will but be to bring disgrace upon the lady, since, as you see, this is written by—MARGARET——,' and then her surname.
                  "Her husband was frantic to get a divorce, but that would require him to leave the State; there being no divorce possible in this one, so he abandoned his project, and, as I told you, fourteen years went by. One morning—I had been three years a widow, and my grief was still fresh—one morning I was sitting in the pastry-room watching old Patty making quince preserves. As very often happens, I was thinking of old times—days long past when I was not grey and forty; one of the footmen brought me a little note. I started, I almost screamed—I knew the writing at once. I could hardly tear it open!
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "'Milly, dearest,' I read, 'come to your old friend. Come quietly and silently. My messenger will bring you to
                              
                                 MADGE.'
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "The address was at a hotel close by: I threw on my things—I was so excited I feared to let any one see me—I slipped out into the street and almost ran. The boy who brought the note had followed me; he overtook me at the hotel entrance, and now led the way up-stairs. My heart beat so fast I could hear it thumping.
                  "I saw her once more—for they opened the door instantly—I saw her after so many, many years. She was lying down on a sofa, wrapped in a great shawl. I saw her once more, and I saw that she was dying. 'Milly,' she said, 'dear Milly, God be thanked for this mercy.' I sobbed and wept, and sobbed again, with her thin, wasted arms folded about me, but she did not shed one tear. She gazed at me with her large, haggard, kind eyes, and patted me softly on the shoulder, as if I had been a child. Presently she began to cough; she pushed me gently from her, and gasped out, 'My good Paget!' Then I first perceived a sober, elderly woman, who whispered to me, respectfully, 'Please, madam, calm yourself: my mistress is very ill.' The paroxysm passed off after a while, and Madge lay quite still, but she raised her heavy eyelids once toward me, and with a faint, sweet smile, her poor emaciated hand sought mine and pressed it feebly. As I held it, I could not but compare the wreck before me, with my Madge of by-gone days. Where were the rounded form, the brilliant cheek, the glancing eye, the spirit, and fire, and dash of my dearly-loved, long-lost friend? True, we had both turned our fortieth year, but she, once so robust, so strong, so powerful in her health and energy—why, I could have lifted her in my arms—and there was more flesh on one of my hands, more life in one of my fingers, than seemed to be in her whole body. I sat quietly beside her for some time: then she fell into a doze and Paget moved noiselessly toward me. 'I must beg you to leave her now, madam; her physician will return presently, and she ought not to be further agitated to-day.' 'But I wish to see her physician, too.' 'Not so, madam, my mistress especially desires that no one of this city shall see you with her: not from a lack of love for you, dear madam, her heart has gone ahead to meet you, since ever we left England. Return this afternoon, if you please, and leave her now.'
                  "My story is getting tediously long, my dears; you need not shake your heads—ah! Heaven save us!" and Aunt Milly wiped her eyes, "that was a sad and serious time. Thirty years have rolled away since Madge came back to die on her native soil. I remember every word she said, every word I said, how she looked, what she wore; I recollect the pattern of her favorite shawl—she gave it to Mrs. Paget—I know to this day how the succory water tasted that she drank. You see she was my dearest friend always, and she had been very unhappy, and I think sadness endears people more to us than mirth. You understand why the doctor was never to see us together? she did not wish to be recognized: and, after a while, when I scarcely left her, whenever he came to visit Mrs. Smith (that was the name she bore in the hotel) I always waited in the adjoining room until he had gone. At home, I had great difficulty in accounting for my absence, but I merely said that I had found an invalid, a poor woman to whom my society was necessary, and so the matter ended.
                  "Of course we had many mutual questions to ask and to answer when poor Madge was strong enough—but it was by snatches almost that I learned her story.
                  "Yes—Madge, broken, feeble, dying Madge, was that bright and genial, and glorious actress, 'whose voice was like the music of the summer wind, whose laugh was like the chime of silver bells.' 'I, the original I, dear Milly,' said she, 'died and was buried fourteen years ago, when I kissed you and went away. From my dust, sprang a curious compound of cleverness and folly which happened to hit the fancy of the times. All the gaiety of of my former self, all the rollicking nonsense of my early days, all those fitful bursts of glee and sunshine which used to dazzle and shock you, burst out each night upon the boards. While the footlights irradiated my face, and all the mimic glories of the stage, joined to the applause which I saw, and felt, and heard, filled my senses with their subtle perfume, I thirstily drained the cup—it never palled. Then, the curtain fallen, I came home as quiet and soberly as my old Paget. I was fifty, I was a hundred years old, but before the public, my dear, I was sixteen!'
                  "'And now, my darling?'
                  "'Oh, now,' she said, wearily, 'I am a ghost. Don't you see, I never speak, unless you speak first.'
                  "Her malady had been a year in progress—she had left the stage without any parade or notice. 'But it was only there that she was happy,' Paget told me, 'her heart was broken before I ever knew her.'
                  "Soon, Madge mentioned her children, her 'little boys' that were now grown men. 'I must see them,' she said, 'not just now, but presently.' I knew what she meant by presently. I asked her if she did not wish to see the other members of her family, those 'best friends.' A spasm of pain crossed her wan face. 'Why should I? if they are kind I will but regret to leave them. If they are what they used to be, why renew my sad experience?'
                  "'But you would not, my Madge, you would not nourish resentment now?' My dears, I said what I thought I ought to say, but it cost me an effort.
                  
                  "'God forbid!' she answered, folding her thin hands while the fever-spot burned so darkly, high upon her wasted cheek, 'God forbid! but I cannot thank them for the pain I have suffered, and their letters to me during many years showed how little they think themselves to blame, and how much they condemn me.'
                  "'Then they wrote to you—they knew you? they urged you to return?'
                  "'Yes.'
                  "'And what did you reply?'
                  "'I never answered at all. They did not understand me—they held out no hope that I should ever be understood. I could not return. Return to be a spectacle, to be pointed at, and for what? When I left my home it was my only resource—death or madness awaited me here.'
                  "'My dear,' I said, 'were you not hasty? romantic? unpractical? do you think I ever would have quitted my country to turn actress?'
                  "'I don't think you would, Milly,' she said, with her old mischievous smile; 'fancy you as "Lady Betty Modish," or the "Widow Bellmour," or "Violante," prancing about the stage, with airs and graces, rouge and high heels—or else as "Peggy"—Paget, think of Mrs. Milnor, as "Peggy," saying, "Law! Bud, how wise you are!"'
                  "I joined in the laugh heartily, Madge was transformed as she recalled these, to her, familiar names, and in the last words, which are quoted, my dears, from one of her plays, she looked just like a simple country girl, and I saw in her the actress she had been. Following the interest of the moment, she half raised herself upon her couch, and gave me disjointed fragments of her different characters. What a memory she had! and how her voice changed and rose and fell: her eyes sparkled. She laughed, such a light, mocking, fresh laugh. Paget watched her uneasily, but I thought her much better and stronger, and she delighted me so, that I could not bear to stop her; but then, just as she was reciting with such pretty affectation some speech of Mrs. Millamant's in 'The Way of the World'—it was something about vanity and beauty and lovers, there came her terrible cough, followed by a death-like swoon.
                  "I thought she was gone. That was a weary, weary night. I did not know what to be at, what to do. Paget sent for the doctor, and for her lawyer—then I found out, that this lawyer had been her sole confidant: it was through him that she kept up her knowledge of things here. He whispered to me, that she had three times seen her sons since she deser—no, that is a hard word, since she left them. 'To their knowledge?' I asked. 'No, she made the journey twice, during her former professional tour, to their school, and watched them from a distance.' I could not help saying, 'How strange!' and Mr. Strong added, hesitatingly, 'Of course, madam, you know that my client is'—he touched his forehead 'just a little.'
                  "I broke out on him indignantly. 'Well, she is romantic then, if you like it better. How else account for her singular life—abandoning the best of friends' ——. I cut him short—perhaps I was romantic too, but I could not, at poor Madge's dying-bed, listen to a eulogy on these eternal best friends. Perhaps she was mad; if so, who had driven her to madness?
                  "Toward morning she rallied, and then, Paget, the doctor, Strong and I, consulted again about her.
                  "Ought she not to see her family, her sons?—should we ask her? or send for them without her knowledge? And her husband, you may ask? fortunately there was no question of him—he was at the West.
                  "I took counsel, where only, when we seek it, the answer must be true and safe. I kneeled by the side of my poor, unhappy friend—I prayed that her sins might be forgiven her, and that now, at the last, she and I might be directed aright. I was alone with her—she opened her eyes and looked affectionately at me, gratefully, so sweetly—ah! what a heart she had!
                  "Well, dears, she consented. First she saw her sons. They were very fine lads and behaved beautifully—it was pitiable to see her. She was so weak she could not speak, but her remnant of life, her very soul gazed out of her eyes at them. The doctor soon took them away—she drew my ear close to her parched lips, and I faintly distinguished, 'I was wrong. This was my sin, this is my punishment.'
                  "The whole city now knew of Madge's return, and you may imagine the fuss and the talk and the lies. Some hours after she had seen her sons, came her father and Julia, and her two brothers. Her other sister was dead. I think the old gentleman would have been very kind and consoling to his wandering lamb, but he lived under terror of Julia's dove-like eyes. She was now a portly, handsome married woman, and of course not more lovable nor better than fourteen years before. Age improves nothing but wine and cheese, dears, and even those can have too much of it.
                  "I think Madge meant to be calm and kind only—but the feelings of her youth, the impetuous love she had borne for these relatives, rushed back, on seeing them, with redoubled force. She stretched out her weak arms, folded her sister to her breast and sobbed aloud. Julia disengaged herself gently from the embrace, and while smoothing her ruff, said, 'don't agitate yourself, Madge; we are very glad to see you, and we forgive you all the pain and anxiety you have cost us. Tell Madge so, papa. I am sure she will be gratified to hear you say it.' I bit my tongue hard to keep from speaking, when Julia said this. She noticed me with a little condescending nod, and vouchsafed presently to give me her majestic paw. She installed herself now as head nurse; bullied Paget, overawed the doctor, snubbed Mr. Strong, lectured her nephews, directed her children, and let the hotel know that things were in different hands at present, and Madge, as her sister, was something quite distinct from an obscure Mrs. Smith. And all the world of our good city raised their voices in admiration of this most exemplary woman! Truly had that misguided Madge found her relations as ever, 'the best of friends.' Mrs. Grundy n'en tarissait pas. You see, I have not forgotten the French, my good papa had me taught in Paris.
                  "Poor Madge now sank rapidly—it was a mere question of time, of hours. Her sons scarcely left her bedside. Julia said to me one morning, 'I hope people will understand that Madge's decline is not hereditary. It is a bad thing to have consumption in one's family. It might hurt my girls' prospects.'
                  "'I don't think your girls will inherit anything from their aunt.' I said this maliciously I own, for I knew that they knew that Madge had made money, and Julia loved money.
                  "'Probably not,' she answered composedly, 'and in fact, we must ever rejoice that poor Madge has brought nothing more upon us than a possible report of hereditary weak lungs. With her dreadful temper, and her utter want of self-control, I have long lived in fear of murder—or worse.' Without waiting for my answer, she got up, and went to offer her sister some nourishment.
                  "Madge died on the 14th day of March—a cold, bleak, wintry day. The rain pattered upon the window panes, the wind howled down the chimneys. Her last sigh mingled with the sobbing of the blast: her end was stormy as her life had been, but, she died a penitent and a Christian. I weep still, children, to think of her. It is thirty years since she died. There was in her the making of a noble woman: but she fell into hands that would not or could not guide her. May she rest in peace, poor troubled, tempest-tost heart! She is no model for you—but hers was a sad lot, and mysterious are God's ways.
                  "She suffered much—how well I remember her repeating to me, one day, before her flight, these verses of the 55th psalm! 'For it was not an enemy that reproached me, then I could have borne it; neither was it he that hated me—then I would have hid myself from him. But it was thou, my equal, my guide and mine acquaintance. Oh, that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest.' 'Milly,' she said, 'can't I get "the wings of a dove?" indeed I am "weary of the windy storm and the tempest.""
                  "Poor, poor Madge!"
                  "Her will was produced by Mr. Strong. She left very pretty fortunes to her sons: a legacy to her husband (they say that legally he could have claimed everything, but he did not). To me she gave her godfather's gift of six hundred per annum during my life-time, with her dearest love! she said; after me, to her sons: mourning rings to her father, brothers and sister. You should have seen the avalanches of bombazine, and torrents of crape that Julia wore. If grief can be shown by millinery work, Julia was inconsolable!
                  "Minute directions for her tombstone were also in her will. In a churchyard not far from here, I will show you some day, my dears, a very singular grave. There is a pedestal of black marble, and upon it a shaft of the purest white. But the shaft is shivered from peak to base as if by lightning—not artistically, but roughly. It was done by a blow from the workman's hammer, and such were her orders. Upon the pedestal is a verse from the psalms, 'Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle: are they not in thy book?'
                  
                  "This is my story, children; a sad one, but only too true."
                  "But, Aunt Milly," cried Mary, the eldest girl, "who was Madge? What name is there on her tomb? Tell us, please?"
                  Aunt Milly took the pleader's hand in hers and said very gently, "Margaret Lennox."
                  "William's mother! Aunt Milly?"
                  "His grandmother, Mary—the grandmother of your affianced lover, and may her history, my precious children, carry its warning, and have your sympathy."
               
               
                  NO. V.
                  A COQUETTE.
                  EMILIA FORRESTER wore a white dress on this especial evening. A dress composed of such miraculous flounces, that her small and graceful head, her exquisitely molded shoulders, and her softly rounded arms, seemed to be rising from a bed of those fleecy, downy clouds that float across a summer sky at noonday.
                  In keeping with this innocent and ethereal drapery, Emilia had put on an air of candor and simplicity which was beautiful to see. No glittering jewels marred the purity of this virginal costume. A single row of pearls marked the outline of her little throat, and her sunny chestnut tresses clustered low about her peachy cheeks, with not even a flower to grace them.
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           "Too much hair, perhaps,
                           (I'll name a fault here) for so small a head,
                           Which seemed to droop on that side and on this:
                           As a full-blown rose, uneasy with its weight,
                           Though not a breath should trouble it."
                        
                      So looked Emilia Forrester when she paid her compliments to Mrs. Sefton, and turned to see who in that crowded ball-room could compare with her.
                  The glance was, as usual, satisfactory; after a moment's pause, she glided a step from her father's side, signified by a pretty nod that he was, for the present, off duty, and gave her hand in welcome to Harry Newton.
                  "Are you amiably disposed this evening, Miss Forrester?"
                  "Are you so dull at divining?"
                  "Your smile promises well—but in spite of your charming air and the frank sweetness about your lips, there is indeed, loveliest lady, a certain—certain—I dare not say it"——
                  "A certain what, certainly where? Speak out: you have, sir, our right gracious and royal permission;" she extended her arm with a playful gesture of regal state.
                  "A certain 'lurking devil' in your soft, bright eyes. You are, in spite of the outward gentleness, the innocent calmness which pervade your style tonight, you are, 'not to put too fine a point upon it,' eminently and wickedly dangerous. Now, order up the executioner, take off my head—but, I have said it."
                  "And, suppose I am dangerous, what is that to you? Who's afraid? Mr. Harry Newton?"
                  "No—but Mr. Harry Newton wishes to present to you a youth, deserving of your notice, but green as a red blackberry."
                  "I'll none of him."
                  "Yes, you will, for my sake. The poor fellow is a stranger here just yet, and I wish to do my best for him. His name is Ernest Norton; you observe how little difference in our appellations. He is from Philadelphia—not very rich, but likely to be—engaged to our former townswoman Charlotte Berkley, who has 'inherited.' His health is not good. They have sent him here for a warmer climate. We were college chums. There is my history."
                  "Charlotte Berkley! my old enemy! Why, we have quarrelled from our youth upward. People thought us alike, and—gave her the preference."
                  "An excellent reason that you should hate her; but spare Ernest. Shall I bring him now?"
                  "Yes. Stop a moment—is he good-looking?"
                  "That is as you fancy him."
                  A few seconds more, and the introduction was made. Ernest Norton was not handsome, but he was interesting. His eyes were fine, his brow good. He was simple, enthusiastic, a poet, and twenty-three years of age. He was a passionate admirer of female beauty, a firm believer in woman's faith and purity.
                  At the first glance he was struck with the vague likeness between Emilia and his fiancée. She put him at his ease by remarking upon it, spoke kindly of Miss Berkley, and then went off to dance, leaving a very pleasing impression upon her new acquaintance.
                  He watched her as she waltzed: her style was more languid and luxurious, than light and elastic. She was graceful, but very quiet, and soon stopped, as calm and unruffled in breathing and complexion as when she started. Not a tinge more of color, and with her flounces just as perfect in their symmetrical carelessness.
                  "Now you may talk to me," she said, returning to both the friends, and dismissing her partner on some objectless errand. "Mr. Penryhn dances, but his education has never reached higher than his heels."
                  "Ernest is very modest, and never will forget that I took the first honor in our class—he is always thinking that I have a right to speak instead of himself. I shall leave you—or else you and I will do the frais of the conversation, and you will never find out whether he is worth the favor you are doing him."
                  "Mr. Newton does not believe in my skill as a physiognomist," Emilia said, as Harry walked off with a warning gesture—aside—to her, touching his eyes, his heart, and then jestingly casting up his hands, as if to implore her to deal gently with her victim. "Can you read character from faces? It is my spécialité."
                  "Will you exercise it on me?" Norton said. "Can you really, do you think, tell, from my features or expression, what are my characteristics?"
                  "Easily. You are very honest, very sincere, rather obstinate, a little prejudiced sometimes, amiable, and excessively devoted in your attachments."
                  "I am afraid of you, Miss Forrester."
                  "Why should you be?" she assumed the most innocent expression; "it is a science that only needs to be cultivated, a species of divination that all fortune-tellers have. As a personal possession, you should be the last to fear meeting with one who owns it. What a lover you would have made in the days when men did love!"
                  "Are those days gone by? Do men no longer love?"
                  "Well, Shakspeare, that scarcely modern writer, hints at such a thing, occasionally—'Men have died,' etc., for instance. I never saw a man really in love."
                  "What sort of men have you seen? If Miss Forrester has never met a man in love, it must be because she willfully closes her eyes when they approach her."
                  "Oh, pardon me! I have seen love-making—plenty of it. I have seen an 'overwhelming passion' grow like Jack the giant-killer's bean-stalk, in one night; but the thing does not last; it has no stamina, no root, no foundation. It is a pretty pastime, a convenient way of amusing oneself; but it is not love. You would not call such ephemeral fancies, love? Women are fickle enough, but men! angels preserve us! 
                        
                           "'The lightning strikes a man,
                           And when we think to find him dead and charred—
                           Why, there he is, on a sudden, playing pipes
                           Beneath the splintered elm-tree.'
                        
                     
                  
                  "A man 'sighs and dies' for a woman, and perhaps next month he comes to tell her of his approaching 'happy marriage,' and yet he was 'in love!' No. I believe, with Clive Newcome, 'once is always;' but then there are many counterfeits of that 'once,' and I fear the original was destroyed, or fell into disuse, long since."
                  "I do not agree with you: and I don't think you quite believe what you say."
                  "Don't I? Perhaps not. I have never loved, myself. Here I stand waiting for the 'divine fire' to strike me. If it ever comes, I shall bare my heart to receive it. Till then," and her large eyes dreamily and softly met Ernest's admiring look, "I shall wait, and—doubt. Do you like violets? The recent rains have made them so sweet!"
                  She held out her bouquet of white camelias encircled with violets, and talked of flowers, books, Philadelphia, society in general.
                  Ernest listened delightedly: she was so fresh, so enticing; her mouth was so beautifully pink, with little milky teeth, and a soft dimple, that came and went, on her left cheek. He liked to look at her: she reminded him so much of Charlotte. After a half hour's infinite pleasure, Emilia condescended to notice some other gentleman, and Ernest had to quit her side.
                  "I treat you as if we had known each other a great while; but, somehow, you attract confidence," Emilia said; "it is your own fault if I cannot give you the formality due to a stranger, not to mention your engagement (don't blush!) to my old friend, and your intimacy with my ally, Mr. Newton."
                  "How can I thank you sufficiently for your great kindness?"
                  "By liking me as much as I like you, and by constraining that careless individual, commonly called 'Harry,' to bring you immediately to see me. I shall make you known to my papa (who is dragonizing me faithfully—at cards in the next room), and who will be charmed to know you. Au revoir."
                  Ah, Emilia! spare that Parthian dart. A look so bewilderingly distracting, and yet which her nice taste never made, by a sparkle, too broad!
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY OWN DEAREST CHARLOTTE: I have now been three days in your former 'city of residence,' and it is about time that I should give you my opinion of it. I like it. I like its soberness, its subdued tone. It has a solid look—an ancient air, which take me. I went to visit the house in which you were born; they showed me your little garden, and I plucked some violets from the very tufts that your dear hands planted. Harry Newton has been very kind to me. I should have been lost without him. Among other favors, he has presented me to a most beautiful Miss Forrester. At once I liked her, for she reminded me of you: you remember her? She is more exacting in her beauty than you, my modest darling, who seem better pleased to remain unnoticed, than to be admired. I called upon her yesterday with Newton. She was gloriously arrayed in some bright stuff that looked like a sunbeam, and she sang for us. The night before, when I met her at the ball, to which I wrote you that I was going, she was all simplicity of attire and frankness of speech. Yesterday, she was brilliant, piquante—quite dazzling. She spoke of you most kindly.
                              
                              "I shall not cross this page, nor begin another sheet, but here I end, as ever, your
                              
                                 ERNEST."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                  "Charmed to see you," Emilia said, rising from her harp, and giving her hand to Mr. Norton. "How did you guess that I was alone this evening, tired of my own society, and doubly grateful for your presence?"
                  "The instinct of my guardian angel, I presume. I shall not quarrel for at least a month with his or her guidance, since, just now, it has led me so happily. But you were singing—pray go on."
                  "I seldom sing, as I told you yesterday, unless I have nothing better to do. Pray talk to me."
                  Emilia threw herself into her own lounging chair, and pointed to another near her.
                  "What have you been doing these past two days?"
                  "Wandering," he answered. "Enjoying your delicious climate, plucking flowers in your gardens, smelling the jasmins on the road, gossipping with the African population, who vastly interest me; and astoundingly forgetting that this is the month of February."
                  Emilia shook her head.
                  "My sympathy will not meet you in any of these pursuits. February is my month of predilection: nomadic negroes are never clean; jasmins give me the headache; I like my flowers gathered for me; and as for the climate, it is too monotonous, too tropical. Give me ice and snow, when December comes; bracing winds and a keen, cold air, which sends the blood bubbling through my veins, and makes my cheeks tingle. Now, see to-night: why it might as well be June."
                  She arose as she spoke, and pushed aside the folding-door which, hidden by curtains, led into a little balcony. Ernest followed her. The slight crescent of a new moon trembled in the sky, and a balmy breeze rustled the leaves of the garden beneath.
                  
                  "Do you not call this charming?" he asked.
                  "No. I would rather see a snow-covered ground and a frosty firmament. Fancy a sleigh-ride, furs, mulled wine, dancing, merry laughter—perhaps an upset."
                  "Fancy a night and sky like this for two who love."
                  "Bah!" Emilia said, shrugging her beautiful shoulders. "But you are right, after all. You know, I told you my sentiments the other evening. I am skeptical. But I ought to rehearse à froid, lest, when the moment comes, I be unprepared to meet it. Would you advise that I take lessons in sentimental reveries from some safe person. Scene, this piazza; dramatis personæ, myself and any indifferent object?"
                  "In my turn—no—never a counterfeit of love, dear Miss Forrester. The real, or nothing."
                  "I think you are wrong. Now, that I make it a matter of grave deliberation, I fancy that I must change my practice, if not my principles. It is dangerous to behave as if danger were past, or never likely to come. I remember last winter a case in point. I went to spend the evening with Elise Merton; there were only a dozen of us, messieurssieurs et dames, and, on inspecting the circle, I found, to my horror, that I had fallen, not among thieves exactly, but into a very hot-bed of live prickly pears. There was Julius Parker, who won't speak to me; Robert Charlton, to whom I won't speak; and my 'dear departed' Percy Williams, between whom and myself there has been so much speaking, that now we are both dumb—et pour cause. The rest were detrimentals: if I had not taken a stranger with me, I should literally have been obliged to déroger, or to pass an evening of 'masterly inactivity.' 'We met' to dance, and I danced with my cavalier whom I had chaperoned, until I feared he would cry out for mercy. Then came supper: anxiety of mind had made me very—hungry. I said to myself, philosophically, this youth is épuisé. I shall just sup as if I were dining, because there can be nothing more ahead. False conclusion! What do you suppose happened?"
                  "I have not the remotest idea."
                  "As I am a veracious woman (oh! don't change the first vowel), I eat oysters and a devilled crab! and scarcely had I finished this repast, when there entered one of my best partners; a galopcommenced menced, and instead of performing my part with my usual personal satisfaction, I got tired immediately, and felt my face flushing. Horrible moment! I stopped. Moral.—Never let yourself be taken unawares, and always be on your guard against an opportunity."
                  Ernest-laughed.
                  "And you draw from this"——
                  "The inevitable conclusion, that so soon as I consider myself safe from any possible call upon my heart, then will come the Great Event—I shall fall in love! I shall not know how to defend myself, if defence is necessary; how to conduct myself, if conduct only is needful; my arms, battle-arms," with an arch smile and bow, "will be rusty, and my powers weak. But how true is the saying, that start where we may, conversation, by moonlight especially, must end sentimentally. Let us go in."
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAREST ERNEST: I write hastily. I have just read your last letter, and a chill struck me when I saw Emilia Forrester's name! Avoid her, my love, if you love me. I may be foolish, don't think me jealous; yes, perhaps I am jealous—are not all women more or less so? Does not that great master of the human heart, Thackeray, say that no thorough woman is incapable of, or inaccessible to jealousy? But I have another reason, a grave one. My feeling is not vague: I cannot write it in detail. Do you remember my telling you of a person who had caused me great unhappiness! It was Emilia. I wish to catch the next mail, so I will say no more just now. I love you. I am yours, faithfully,
                              
                                 CHARLOTTE."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Ernest read his letter twice; put it in his pocket; mused a long while; walked for an hour and a half, passed by Mr. Forrester's house and went in.
                  Some days had elapsed since the last conversation, and he had frequently seen Emilia in the interval. Was it fancy? was it real? she was much graver and quieter than heretofore. Her eyes would look strangely earnest sometimes, and she no longer jested as she had done, except fitfully, as if to conceal the gravity that overshadowed her.
                  Ernest liked her softened tone, her gentle manner. Always feminine in her style, and languid in her movements, there had been great vivacity of thought and expression; but now, she was more silent, more reserved.
                  On this day, Harry Newton was already planted near the beauty, snipping away with her scissors at the edges of her embroidery, unmindful of her remonstrances, and talking very fast and low. She was listening with a smile of triumphant amusement, disclaiming occasionally by gesture or a single word, and looking fearfully handsome. Pink plush, and white cashmere, and soft lace frills, and two great bracelets of solid gold about her slender wrists, made up her costume. The chestnut hair rippled over her low, broad forehead, and her eyes were dangerous indeed, this morning.
                  She received Ernest very quietly and gently: there was a kind of timid consciousness in her manner, a flutter and nervousness in his. Harry Newton looked grave and annoyed. He watched Emilia; she had invested herself now with the sweet simplicity air, and only once she answered his half-angry and wholly reproachful looks with a defiantly saucy glance.
                  The conversation languished, dragged, went out. Emilia stitched away with provoking industry, examining her work with care, and at last she half-sighed and checked herself abruptly.
                  Harry started up, seized his hat and wished her "good morning," almost fiercely.
                  "Are you going?" she asked innocently.
                  "Yes, I am. Good bye, Ernest. When do you leave us?"
                  "Perhaps next week. I don't know—I may go sooner—my plans are by no means fixed."
                  "I never knew you wavering before. Some new spirit must possess you. I fancied that Philadelphia had claims."
                  "I beg your pardon," Norton said haughtily, answering the manner more than the words. "I usually know my own plans, but may not choose to explain them."
                  Harry bit his lip and made some insignificant rejoinder: "Shall I send you 'Henry Esmond?'" he asked turning to Emilia.
                  "Is it really good?"
                  "'Beatrix' is an admirable portraiture. Henry Esmond knows so well how unworthy she is, and yet he can't give her up; as he himself says' I have fixed the value of the thing I would have, and know the price I would pay for it,' and he was a fool for his pains."
                  Emilia colored.
                  "I have not read it," she said simply.
                  "You need not," Newton said meaningly and in a low voice; then he went on aloud—"How true is another sentence, ''tis admiration such women want, not love that touches them: and I can conceive in her old age, no more wretched creature than this lady will be when her beauty hath deserted her, when her admirers have left her, and she hath neither friendship nor religion to console her.'"
                  "What a good memory you have!" Emilia exclaimed with ironical admiration, and putting up her hand effectually, not to conceal a yawn.
                  Mr. Newton bowed abruptly and left the room.
                  "What ails Harry?" Ernest said, seating himself near his hostess.
                  "Does any one ever have the clue to Harry's humors?"
                  "We are all out of sorts this morning. Frankly, I am very much disturbed."
                  "You? And why?"
                  "I am not satisfied with myself."
                  Emilia laid aside her sewing and fixed her lustrous eyes upon his.
                  "I fear," and Ernest spoke hurriedly, "I fear, dear Miss Forrester, that I am not doing a wise thing in lingering so long in this place. You have been so kind to me—you are so very, very attractive—there is about you such an atmosphere of charm and loveliness—I find you—in short, I do not understand myself. This fortnight passed almost constantly with you"——
                  "Mr. Norton—you do not indeed know what you are saying. Recollect your engagement—I have received you as my friend's friend—as Charlotte's lover."
                  Ernest started. "Would you have been less kind had you not known of my engagement?"
                  "I cannot say—but you are pledged, betrothed—I look upon you as a married man almost." She paused, sighed and turned away.
                  "Tell me, had I come, a free and disengaged person, had I come without antecedents, how would you have regarded me?"
                  Emilia gave him one long, deep look—"You have no right," she said, "to ask me that."
                  Norton tried to take her hand: she partly drew it away; he dropped it himself and sprang up with a groan of remorse and despair.
                  "I am a villain, a scoundrel. I have no right. Everything I do and say is dishonorable and atrocious. Listen to me. Here is my only excuse. I first met Miss Berkley two years ago—she was intimate with my sister, we were thrown together—my health was feeble and she was sad and broken by a recent disappointment," had Ernest been calm, he would have noticed a passing quiver around the full red lips of his listener. "We met frequently: she is a musician; I adore music: she patiently played for me by the hour; gratitude for her kindness to an invalid first attracted me, then I became interested, in a while, seriously attached. I offered myself—I was very happy when she accepted me: but it was with hesitation that she did so. I cannot tell you what had preceded my proposal—the long conversations, the confidence with which she had honored me—suffice it, I was not her first love—but she is a true, a good, a sincere woman, a woman who had suffered and who with adorable sweetness promised through her tears, to make me happy. I thought I should be happy with her—I thought that the wreck of a heart which she gave me would satisfy mine. Alas! you said, the first time I saw you—you said with that thrilling tone, indifferent on the surface, but so deeply passionate under its careless ring—that there were many counterfeits of love; but with the true, once was always! I never loved till now. I feel for her, a deep and warm attachment; but for you"——
                  "I must not listen to this," Emilia said; "you are still pledged to another woman. Forget me, and farewell."
                  She pressed his hand, and tears, real tears, (where under heaven, did she get them?) swam in her beautiful, false eyes.
                  Ernest threw himself at her feet. Admiration passion, tenderness, ardor, burned in his face.
                  "No—leave me," she said, pleadingly, "for my sake, leave me."
                  She would not answer his incoherent words: he poured out his insensate love, his own reproaches, his hopes, his fears, his doubts, his anxiety. She tore herself from his detaining grasp, and left the room, not angrily, but as if she dreaded to trust herself in reply. What an actress was lost to the world!
                  
                  Ernest returned to his hotel: he locked his door, he paced the room like a madman. Remorse, love, repentance, adoration, by turns filled his breast. He wondered at himself—he cursed himself; he recalled Charlotte's sad, sweet face, but ever as he conjured up her image, a radiant head with its clustering magnificence of "prisoned sunbeams," its arch tenderness of lip, its passionate luxurious eyes, glided between, like the "serpent of old Nile," and blotted out the peaceful features he had fancied that he loved.
                  
                  "Miss Forrester?" Ernest Norton inquired for the third time, in two days, at her father's door.
                  There came the invariable reply "not at home."
                  He wrote on his card, "When may I see you?"
                  "When I am well enough, I will let you know," was the answer, and yet she had passed him in her carriage the day before.
                  He wrote her twenty letters, and tore up nineteen of them; the twentieth was about suffering the same fate, when one afternoon a waiter knocked and handed him a package. There was the Philadelphia postmark upon it. He broke the seal, he knew the writing. It was Charlotte Berk ley's hand. She returned him the few letters which he had written during their short engagement, and with them these lines:
                  "I will not reproach you—I leave that to time, and to a stronger voice than mine. Why did I let you go to that city, that influence which has twice destroyed my happiness? I ask no explanations, none would be availing between us two. Among my old acquaintances and relatives, of course, some pens have been but too willing to tell me what every eye has seen and marked—your devotion to Emilia Forrester. I write the name with a shudder. What has made her my evil genius? The first love of my life, she took from me, and now, even if you could see her unworthiness, and scorn her, as you should do, it could not restore my belief in you, consequently my love. I have lost my faith, and with me, the two are inseparable. Doubtless you think me very calm. May you never know, Ernest, the sort of calm under which I write this farewell."
                  Norton was shocked, grieved, wretched—for a moment, and then high within him, beat the dawning hope. He was free to seek his fate with the enchantress, whose subtle spell, no other human being's strictures could break or injure. In those few days, by the magic of her art and beauty, she had enchained him. He was lost to all sense of his own criminal unkindness—he recklessly rushed to his fate, and it was not far off.
                  Is it worth while to detail the coquetries, the unmeaning, yet soul-subduing words and glances of a woman like Emilia Forrester? She played with her victim, in that cat-and-mouse manner only too familiar to most of us. Needless to say that she neither engaged herself to Norton, nor did she refuse him. "I know you as yet so little," she said. "All this absurd feeling which pervades me, is so new, and so bewildering. Is it love?" she would add with timid tenderness, "I really can't define it."
                  Rousing himself one day from his elysium of maddening folly, Ernest would have questioned her about her participation in Miss Berkley's first grief. She did not evade the question; she spoke most kindly of Charlotte—(it made Ernest very miserable to hear her name)—she said that she had never encouraged the attentions which caused the rupture. The man was in himself heartless, and she had flirted with him long before he knew Charlotte—one of those ball-room flirtations which are evanescent as the duration of the ball. He was satisfied. Had he seen her murder her own father, I think Ernest would have doubted it, or found some excuse for her.
                  This state of partial mental aberration lasted just one week. It was on a Friday that he had been re-admitted to the presence of his idol, an unlucky day—the following Friday, on entering her drawing-room, he found Harry Newton there again—he had missed him once or twice during this period, and had heard, without much heeding it, that his good friend had been called off suddenly to a dying relative; Newton was in deep mourning, but his face wore no such livery.
                  The young men met rather coolly. Emilia was as calm and unruffled, as beautiful and as still as the blue sea when the sun shines upon it, and not a breath stirs it. A smile dimpled over her face now and then, and a gleam shot out from between her fringed lids, once in a while, but she was wonderfully quiet, even for Emilia.
                  Other visitors entered: the crowd annoyed Ernest. He seated himself in a corner and tossed over the books and papers before him. Nobody noticed him. Everybody was congratulating Newton. He gathered from the talk, that some distant connection of Harry's, a millionaire and miser, just deceased, had good-naturedly, not being able to take it with him, left his great fortune to Harry.
                  A vague feeling of dislike, founded upon he knew not what, made Ernest unwilling to add his congratulations. He felt peevish and unhappy. He rose to go away, hoping that some detaining word from Emilia might serve to keep him or comfort him. No: she said, "good morning," without an intonation on which he could hang a hope.
                  Three hours after, this note was brought to him:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I fear that what I am about to say will give you pain. Although our acquaintance has been short, it has been full of mental incidents to both of us. If I have misled you as to my feelings, I cannot but deeply regret it. You have interested me beyond any other stranger that I ever knew: once or twice, in fact, I have, as you may remember, wondered whether the sentiment you inspired were not love; but, on consulting gravely with myself, I have been forced to admit that, however strong and deep, it does not rise beyond friendship. I beg—I hope, that you will always reserve for me a place in your kind consideration. Perhaps it would be best for all parties, just at present, not to see each other. Rest assured of my enduring recollection, and take what I say as the strongest proof I can give, of the regard that will ever respond to yours, from
                              
                                 "EMILIA FORRESTER.
                                 "Irving street, Friday, 9th."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Ernest read this precious note twice, before he could glean the faintest idea of what it meant. He was stunned. He drank off a glass of water, threw himself on his bed and tried to think. Chaos surrounded him. He got up and went out. Mechanically he turned into Irving street; he wished to speak to Emilia, to understand if possible what she was after. But yesterday, she had been so kind: he had showed her his letter to Charlotte, in which he entreated Miss Berkley's forgiveness, and, without attempting to excuse himself, had implored her to think as kindly of him as she could.
                  He saw the light gleaming from the drawing-room windows as he mounted the steps and rung the bell, but he was refused admittance. He could not insist upon violently entering Mr. Forrester's house—he would go home and write to her. His head felt strangely heavy, and he almost fell as his feet touched the pavement; some one caught him. It was Tom Sefton, the son of the lady at whose house he first met Emilia.
                  "Where now?" Tom inquired. "Why, Norton, you don't seem steady on your pins."
                  "Thank you—my head is giddy, I think. Let us walk on, and lend me your arm, that's a good fellow."
                  Tom winked knowingly—"Been dining out? Not at the Forresters', of course."
                  "Why of course? but I did not dine out—why of course?"
                  "Because I presume la belle Emilia will give at least this one first evening to a tête-à-tête. I would not answer for to-morrow. He had better make the most of this."
                  "What do you mean?" asked Ernest fiercely. "What he?"
                  "Why don't you know the news? Don't you know that Harry Newton has been dangling after Emilia Forrester ever since she was sixteen, and the first thing he did when old Perry died, was to run and offer her all the millions, and the first thing she did was to say yes; it happened this morning, and before three o'clock the whole town knew it. Hello! Norton, what's the row—stand up, old fellow. Are you spoony about Emilia Forrester? Good Lord! Don't die about such a confounded flirt as that!"
                  
                  "Emilia! here is something you will be sorry to see! Poor fellow!" Harry Newton spoke to his wife. They were at breakfast and he had just taken up the "Herald." They had been married eighteen months.
                  "What is it?" She came and leaned over him—her "perfumed tresses" sweeping his cheek caressingly.
                  "Ernest Norton is dead—aged twenty-five. Here is his obituary notice. Poor fellow!"
                  Emilia turned away. She only stooped to raise her handkerchief. There was a heightened color in her beautiful face, and she passed her soft white hand over her forehead silently.
                  
                  Her husband glanced upward at her. She met his eye quietly, and with just enough sadness as was proper.
                  "I never quite understood how much poor Ernest was taken with you, darling. That morning when I warned you about him, and you were so saucy and rude," he tapped her bright cheek, fondly, "I had fancied all manner of things, but the illness of my venerable and ever-to-be revered fiftieth cousin carried me off that very night, and when I returned it was only 'to lay my fortunes at your haughty feet,' and to be blest with your plighted faith. He came in soon after, did he not? and I think the sight of him made me recollect our last interview; I believe I was not very friendly. He looked queerly at you—but that was the beginning of his terrible illness. Oh yes! Tom Sefton hunted me up about midnight to go and see him. What a fever he had! That good, dear Charlotte Berkley came with her mother and nursed him. I never saw such devotion. Did you see much of Charlotte? I forget. Poor thing! Ernest never has recovered from this attack. It left him completely broken. He trembled like a reed when I first saw him—after he returned to consciousness. He"——
                  "Yes. I remember," Emilia interrupted.
                  "I never saw so sad and sweet a face as Charlotte Berkley's. There was a rumor, you know, that their engagement was broken off—but their marriage was only postponed on account of his health; at least, he eagerly told me so one day, before Miss Berkley. She smiled so gravely when he said it; he took her hand and kissed it, and she left the room. I saw that she knew his case was hopeless, for her eyes were full of tears. He told me then that she was the best, and tenderest, and noblest of women, and that if she would only consent to take so worthless a man as himself, he would try to make her happy. He sighed when he said it, but they have never married. You ought to write to Miss Berkley, Emilia."
                  "I? Never!"
                  Harry Newton started at her energetic tone.
                  "What ails you, my child?"
                  "Nothing. I hate gloomy topics. I am very much grieved about Ernest Norton, but pray don't talk any more about it. I had bad dreams last night. I am nervous. Kiss me now. I am going out."
                  She stooped and kissed him: her lips were cold and quivering, and her face was pale and ghastly; but, among the gayest dancers at a ball that evening, none moved with lighter step, no woman was more serenely beautiful than Emilia Newton.
               
               
                  No. VI.
                  A MAN OF HONOR.
                  A GROUP of young men stood chatting at a street corner. A carriage dashed rapidly by. They all raised their hats, and a woman, lying back in this carriage, bowed, smiling faintly as she did so. The smile momentarily irradiated her grave face, and then faded as quickly.
                  "The St. Maur?" John Percy said, interrogatively. He was short-sighted.
                  "Yes, and looking very handsome," answered his cousin Louis.
                  "Who is the St. Maur?" asked the third of the group, Frank Egerton.
                  "Don't you recollect pretty Mrs. Wilson? You used to see her years ago."
                  "Ah! old Wilson dead and she married again?"
                  "All wrong, mon cher. Old Wilson is very much alive indeed. Did you not hear in Europe that there was a great scandal—Jack Cadurcis, etc.—divorce, and so on—she resumed her maiden name, and is known as Mrs. St. Maur. Some people for her, some against her. She goes nowhere except to drive and to church."
                  "Why don't she go away?"
                  "Her two little girls, I fancy, keep her here. The court gave them to the husband. She is very fond of her children, poor thing, and I suppose can't make up her mind to leave this place, where she has a chance of seeing them once a week."
                  "Do you visit her?"
                  "I constantly have the immense gratification of leaving my card; I should think there are several packs of them in her house by this time; the answer invariably is, 'Not at home!' but I keep on trying—it costs very little, and some day I may slip in."
                  "Does she see no one?"
                  "Very few. I'll tell you with whom she is very liée—that nice cousin of yours, Mrs. Vernon, and the beau-frère, Robert Vernon. It's the only house she goes into. See here, Frank, you are asking a great many questions about the lovely St. Maur. I don't like it."
                  "Why not?"
                  "Pour cause. I am very sorry I told you about the Vernons. You never would have known it for yourself, as they never speak of her. Now, don't try and take advantage of my amiability and get the start of me."
                  "Start in what?"
                  Louis Percy gave a knowing wink and laughed.
                  "Bless his innocent face!" he drawled; then looking at his watch he remembered an engagement, nodded, and walked off.
                  Frank Egerton also wished John good-morning and strolled down the street. He was busy with various thoughts; first, Mrs. St. Maur. He remembered her very well; he had admired her a long while; accident alone had several times interfered to prevent an introduction. He idly pictured to himself the difference in her life then and now. She had been a very decided married belle, the gayest person in society, the most fêtéed, the most popular. Thinking it over, he could not understand why he had never known her then. And now, solitary, disgraced, a mark for every licentious eye, a theme for every idle tongue. He had been interrupted in his questions by his flighty friend, Louis—where was Cadurcis, whom scandal named with her? She looked very lovely as she dashed past a while ago—so serene, with all her gravity, and such a smile, transient as it was.
                  
                  Thus meditating, Frank passed the Vernons' door; he had got into their square by some chance.
                  
                  "I'll pay Lou a visit; I haven't been here for an age."
                  Mr. Egerton was a favorite with his cousin Lou. She was at home and very glad to see him, and rallied him on his good looks, and on his absence, and especially on his thoughtful air.
                  "You are quite pensive, child," she said; "you alarm me."
                  "My dear, I am bored. Nothing amuses me; all the people I know are so monotonous."
                  "Thank you."
                  "Oh, not you—you are sweet; but you are so taken up with Vernon and those fifty babies, it is a mere mercy of hazard that I catch you without your 'dearest love,' and the lesser loves occupying your entirely un-come-at-able attention. If you were only disengaged oftener, I should be enchanted and you enchanting."
                  "So much the better for me, then, and for Vernon, and for the fifty babies."
                  "Don't you know any nice women, Lou, whom a man could talk to every now and then? I saw such a pretty creature this morning; I heard her name, but I have been away so long it is unfamiliar liar—Mrs. St. Maur, I think, a widow;" and with a face of sublime indifference and polite inquiry Master Frank looked at his cousin.
                  "Now, Frank?"
                  "Well, Lou?"
                  "What is your interest in Mrs. St. Maur? You know very well who she is and all about her. Come, no deception with me. If I suspect a trap, I will shut you up in it sooner than put my own finger in danger, or Fanny St. Maur's either. Who has been talking about her to you?"
                  "Seriously, then, I saw her this morning driving, and I should like to know her, for her face interests me exceedingly—always did, and"——
                  "It is impossible. She goes nowhere—receives very few visitors—no young men"——
                  "Pardon me—Robert Vernon," interrupted Frank.
                  "Yes. That is true; but that cannot be avoided, as he lives here, and then she has known him so long, he is like a brother to her."
                  "And Mr. Cadurcis?"
                  "Pray hush! You are talking nonsense and worse; she has not seen Cadurcis for centuries. Has he not got a wife as jealous as Othello? and besides, after Mr. Wilson's choosing to drag in his name as a pretext for the divorce, very properly Fanny broke off their intimacy, and—he married."
                  "Then you don't believe"——
                  "My dear Frank, I don't believe anything, except that you are very pertinacious. How is your mother?"
                  "Very well, much obliged to your polite eagerness. And so Mrs. St. Maur is really"——
                  "How is your father?"
                  "My dear madam, every member of my family, in its remotest as well as its nearest branches, is at this moment enjoying, so far as I know, perfect health. 'Cease, cease, then, rude' creature, to interrupt me."
                  " 'Cease, cease, then, stupid' creature, to interrogate me?"
                  "Dear Lou, present me to Mrs. St. Maur."
                  "Dear Frank, it is impossible."
                  "The word does not exist, vide Collot's phrase-book, anecdote 'Napoleon.' You might as well bring it about at once. Your life will be miserable till you do. I'll give you no peace, night or day. And you know, or you ought to know, that with my temper, by raising these obstacles, you invest Mrs. St. Maur with a fearful interest. I shall begin to think and dream of nothing else. But if I just see her, and chat with her, she will be but an acquaintance, and my frenzy will die out."
                  "Frank," Mrs. Vernon said, speaking earnestly and gravely, "you are not the first young gentleman who has pressed for an introduction to my poor friend. Her position is a peculiar one; and yet many women would not adopt the life that she has insisted upon. She is very unhappy, very sad; her troubles are recent, and weigh heavily upon her. Six months have passed since her divorce, and she absolutely refuses to leave her seclusion. Her heart is broken. I sometimes think that her reason will give way. She broods over her distresses without ceasing. She is morbidly sensitive, miserably depressed; for months she wept, until her sight failed her, and her beautiful eyes were almost destroyed. She is calmer now. I think gradually she will recover, in a measure, her spirits and mental health. She will never be again the gay, joyous, buoyant Fanny St. Maur, my playmate and my friend; but I hope to see her tranquil and resigned some day. I tell you this because I have a presentiment, a vague, undefined feeling—you know I am very superstitious—I believe in omens, warnings. As soon as you mentioned her name just now, a thrill ran through me, and a kind of fear of—I know not what. Let her alone; don't torment me any more—there's a good boy. You have scores of pretty women to talk to and to talk about. Forget Mrs. St. Maur."
                  "In the name of Heaven, Lou, what do you fear?"
                  "Everything—nothing."
                  "Lou, do you believe me to be a gentleman and a man of honor, or do you take me for a scoundrel?"
                  "Certainly you are a man of honor—as men go," his cousin answered, laughing.
                  "Now I am serious, and you wish to jest. Do you believe me capable, after what you have said and implied, of wishing to trifle with, or to injure in any way, a woman who seems so crushed and broken—one so unhappy, and striving so bravely to live down public prejudice against her? No, you can trust me—you can believe me. Before, I simply admired Mrs. St. Maur; now, I respect her, and commiserate her sad fate. You may do as you please. I will not press you; but I should be glad to prove to you and to her that I am a sincere and respectful admirer. Do you believe me?"
                  Mrs. Vernon stretched out her hand confidingly to him, and looked into his handsome eyes with a gratified expression.
                  "You are honest, Frank, though Vernon says that you are tricky."
                  A hot flush crossed Egerton's brow. He bit his lip; and it was singular to watch how expressive such regular and perfect features could be; every line darkened and deepened.
                  "Vernon be"——
                  "Good heavens! I should not have said that, Frank. Please forget it—or set in down to involuntary admiration. Come, smooth your face once more. You won't? Then you shall never see Fanny."
                  "And if I smooth it?"
                  "Then—perhaps—perchance—maybe"——
                  "Out with it, you teasing woman."
                  "Drop in this evening at nine o'clock. She takes tea here."
                  
                  Mrs. Vernon's drawing-room clock struck nine. Lou was a little nervous. She feared that she had been hasty in her promise. She glanced frequently in the calm faces of her companions, and tried to fancy that she had done a very ordinary and commonplace monplace thing. Was not Frank Egerton her own first cousin? Fanny St. Maur a cherished friend? Why should Fanny's prohibition exclude Frank more than Robert? Robert Vernon sat near Mrs. St. Maur at this very moment, looking at her, as he often did, very steadily, very earnestly. He held her scissors, stooped to pick up her ball of worsted, was ready with an answering smile when she turned toward him, evidently gave her much thought, and yet in so quiet a way that he was neither obtrusive nor conspicuous.
                  His brother was reading aloud. Both ladies had their hands employed. Mrs. Vernon rather neglected the slipper for "dear William" that she was pretending to work upon so diligently; but Mrs. St. Maur never ceased plying her fingers. It was a knitted shoe for the last of the "fifty babies."
                  There was a ring at the street-bell. Lou was very nervous indeed. The door opened—enter Frank Egerton.
                  Mr. Vernon glanced inquiringly at his wife, but rose to meet cordially his wife's cousin. Lou fluttered up to him, with a sort of feigned surprise, but broke down; she was too honest for that. Robert nodded coolly to the new-comer, and looked at his neighbor; she was very pale, and seemed annoyed.
                  "Fanny, allow me to present my cousin, a very precious cousin. Mr. Egerton—Mrs. St. Maur."
                  The great hazle eyes slowly lifted their white lids and black lashes; there was a movement of the tremulous red lips, a bend of the small head, and Mr. Egerton discreetly turned away after a profound bow.
                  "I am very silly," Mrs. St. Maur murmured to Robert, "but I am so unused to meeting strangers. Why has Lou received this evening?"
                  "God knows. And this empty-headed coxcomb too; we were getting on very well without him."
                  "You do not like him?"
                  "Well enough. Did you never know him?"
                  "No."
                  "There is no great harm in him. He is a flirt, fond of conquest; men generally like him very much. I don't believe in him myself."
                  "Believe in what?"
                  "In his honesty, sincerity, and so on. He is too selfish to be trusted, and too vain."
                  "He is handsome," Fanny said.
                  "Yes, very handsome."
                  
                  "Will you take me home, Robert? I can slip away unobserved presently. Lou has broken her agreement with me, and I am off."
                  "If you wish it, certainly."
                  "Perhaps you had better go first. Leave the room now, and I will join you in half a second. Get my hood and shawl for me, and have them ready so that I can not be overtaken and dragged back, for I don't know of what Lou is not capable this evening."
                  He obeyed instantly; he seemed anxious to facilitate his friend's departure.
                  This conversation had taken place in undertones while the host and hostess were doing the honors of a newly acquired and very fine painting to Mr. Egerton at the opposite end of the room.
                  But Frank saw more of the lady seated beneath the light of the shaded reading-lamp than he did of the picture.
                  In five minutes he had taken a mental portrait of her.
                  Very still she sat when Robert had gone. Gracefully thrown back in the deep chair, her luxuriously perfect figure, in its exquisitely simple and fresh dress of grey silk, was nestled into the dark velvet of the cushions. Her face had the sadness of past suffering in every soft line; and constantly a quiver around her mouth, and a transient shade upon her brow, seemed to say that the nerves were deplorably shaken, the mind seriously disquieted, beneath the tranquil surface.
                  It was a face to study and to love; to move with tenderest sympathy a generous heart.
                  Presently she sighed, and was about to get up. Egerton almost guessed her intention, for he moved quickly toward her, and before she could escape he was at her chair. She rose hastily then.
                  "What do you wish, Fanny?" asked Mrs. Vernon.
                  "Nothing" she said, provoked at her own feelings and at Lou's question.
                  "I saw you this morning, Mrs. St. Maur," Frank remarked, coolly taking Robert's vacant seat next her. "What fine horses you drive! You are more successful than myself. I cannot get a pair to suit me."
                  He rambled on, talking of horses, saddle-horses, trotting-horses, equipages, grooms, rides, drives, in the most matter-of-fact and dullest manner, and had the desired effect. Mrs. St. Maur regained her composure, and was only a little bored, and thought Lou's cousin very uninteresting.
                  
                  Then he put a direct question—forced her to reply; took a volume of poems from the table, and began to be agreeable. The conversation became mutual. Fanny smiled her rare, beautiful, arch smile. It brightened her sad face magically. Frank made a capital hit—a telling "word"—it was witty, pointed, original. It was something that struck her fancy and corresponded to her own thoughts. She dropped the tiny shoe, and with a silvery laugh, glanced up at him from her velvet cushions. Their eyes met full for the first time. Do you believe in electric shocks that lie in eye-beams? Something new—something he had never known before—awoke in his breast as those eyes dwelt for a second on his. It was delicious, and he felt it to be dangerous. Fanny colored violently, but it was from a different motive; she saw Robert Vernon's surprised face watching her from the open door, her shawl and hood upon his arm—watching her rising, deepening flush.
                  Her flexible lips curled impatiently. She arose, and, with a slight bow to Mr. Egerton, wished Mrs. Vernon good-night.
                  "Going, my dearest child? Why so early?"
                  "Good-night."
                  She kissed her friend hastily and unaffectionately, held out her hand kindly to Mr. Vernon, and was gone.
                  "I shall see you to-morrow, Fanny," said downcast Lou. "But I wish you would stay."
                  There was no answer. The guest had flown.
                  Lou went to her piano, turned over the music; Frank was talking with the most unconcerned air to her husband. No allusion was made to Mrs. St. Maur. They were deep in business. Frank was saying:
                  "We are but a young firm; and my partner impressed upon me, when I went to Europe, to have no dealings with any one who required more than my word to trust me. If a man cannot rely upon my word, and if people lack confidence in me, I would rather turn my back upon them at once, although I should lose by it."
                  "You are right there," Mr. Vernon said.
                  "Of course I am. He who will break his word will break his oath. He who will stoop to deceive will steal a purse."
                  "To deceive men. But women, Frank?" put in Lou. "What is the theory about that?"
                  "I don't know the theory; but I know my practice tice. It may be romantic—what you will; but to deceive a woman is worse, a thousand times, than deceiving a man; for women have no redress, and must suffer wrong in silence and in tears. Goodnight. I am getting melodramatic. By the way, I was never near Mrs. St. Maur before. What a pretty woman she is still! She must be thirty—how much? I like her face. There is a great deal of thought in it."
                  "A great deal of suffering and past anguish," Mr. Vernon said.
                  "I should say so. She must have had a great deal to make her life miserable."
                  "And to change one of the brightest natures into one of the most desponding—one of the most confiding into one of the most suspicious."
                  "That is saddest of all," Frank said, as he took his leave.
                  Meanwhile Robert Vernon silently walked home with Mrs. St. Maur. The silence fretted her, and yet she did not break it.
                  "What is the matter, Robert?" she asked at last.
                  "Nothing."
                  "Are you put out at my keeping you waiting just now? Indeed I could not avoid it."
                  "Dear Fanny, don't think me so unamiable and so childish!"
                  "What is it, then?"
                  "Shall I tell you, Fanny?"
                  "I wish you would."
                  "My dear, avoid Frank Egerton."
                  "Avoid Frank Egerton! why don't you tell me to avoid the King of Oude—Louis XIV.—something practicable or possible? Avoid Mr. Egerton! Really, unless I went to call upon him"——
                  "That is all—avoid him. I warn you—I will say no more."
                  "Now, you are unkind."
                  "Unkind to you, Fanny? when I am, may that hour be my last."
                  "You will make me hate a man I never saw before, and never expect to see again, if he brings dissension between us."
                  "I don't wish you to hate him—but Frank Egerton came to that house this evening to meet you. Lou likes him, and has allowed him to make a cat's-paw of her, and no one would cry out with more indignation if she heard the title applied to her foolish little self—no one would more strenuously fight for Egerton and deny any such imputation."
                  "Why do you suppose that he came to meet me?"
                  
                  "Did you not see that Lou expected him? Are not her doors always closed, by your request, and by strict orders to her servants, when you take tea there?"
                  "And suppose he did ask Lou, and suppose she was so foolish, and suppose he has met me—what more? what else? The deed is done but I see no results."
                  "The future—the future."
                  "But there is no future," Fanny said, impatiently.
                  "What has Mr. Egerton to do with my future?"
                  "He will manage to see you again."
                  "I doubt it—and if he did?"
                  "He will make love to you."
                  "He dare not. And if he did—suppose he did 'make love' to me—what then? Am I forced to listen to him?"
                  Robert was silent.
                  "Will you not answer me? Will you not speak?"
                  I have spoken. If you wish me to say more—here it is. I know Frank Egerton: he is as brave a man, as bold a man, as was ever born, and as daring. He has fixed his attention upon you, and I have not seen you for many months give any one the smile, the look that you gave him just now."
                  "This is insulting, Mr. Vernon; what would you imply?"
                  "I imply nothing, dearest Fanny; you asked me to explain the uneasiness that I feel—you have urged it, and I am doing so. Egerton is young, handsome, impassioned, fascinating, clever, brilliant—but I don't trust him. He is selfish, he is vain; he thinks all things fair with women. You may be impressed, caught, drawn on—don't be angry—don't frown or take away your hand from my arm—but I am anxious for you; I dread this man's acquaintance—his attentions will compromise you—and if you should care for him, oh, Fanny, nothing that you have suffered, nothing that is past, will equal in bitterness, in desolation, what will fall upon you then. Be warned, my child, be warned!"
                  "I cannot be angry with you because you seem so much in earnest; but pray get rid of these absurd ideas. I am very safe, I assure you; and if I had, at first sight, gone distracted about Lou's wonderful cousin, all this would surely put me on my guard. You take it so seriously that I wish to joke about it." She sighed, as she went on: "If I were likely to get into such mischief, why have I not fallen in love with you, sir? and tried to make a conquest of your gravity?"
                  They were at her own door now. Robert rang the bell before he answered:
                  "You read Alphonse Karr—don't you recollect what he says? 'A woman may fall in love with her friend by accident, but a man whom she has never seen, has a thousand more chances than he.' God bless you, Fanny. Don't stay out in this cold. Good-night!"
                  
                  The danger was over—no bones broken, but a carriage shattered and overturned, and two horses madly tearing down the road. It was a lady's carriage, and she herself, rescued by her servants from the wreck, sat very quietly on the freshest piece of turf, on the roadside, to consider what should next be done.
                  It was a solitary green lane, and no vehicle in sight.
                  "You must walk back to town as quickly as you can," she said to her footman, "and get a carriage; John will stay here with me until it arrives."
                  At this very instant, in the distance, appeared a horseman: he came riding quickly up. There are such chances every day of our lives (their only fault is that they are too commonplace, and would be unworthy of a romance-writer; but this is an everyday tale, and only sets down facts)—Frank Egerton sprang to the ground, and eagerly and respectfully offered his services to Mrs. St. Maur.
                  Fanny was annoyed and perplexed. She answered coldly, feeling herself blush, and remembering all that had been said by Robert Vernon only three days back. But there was no gainsaying the decided directions and words of the newcomer. Before she could prevent it, her footman was mounted on Mr. Egerton's horse, and Mr. Egerton himself seated beside her. She folded her arms and bit her lip. She was growing angry; but her anger seemed thrown away upon her companion. He looked so genuinely happy—so perfectly happy. There was not a suspicion of disrespect, of triumph, of deceit, in his voice, his look, his manner. Fate had favored him; and he was enjoying to its fullest extent the exquisite pleasure of seeing her—talking to her.
                  If he flattered her, it was by the profound deference which showed itself in the midst of his admiration. His eyes followed her every moment; not with the bold commendation of a man who is impertinently scanning a woman's charms, but with the enthusiastic delight of a boy gazing upon the creature who has become the star of his hopes and imagination.
                  Was this ingenuous, open-hearted gentleman the monster against whom Robert Vernon had raised so strong an array of dislike and warning? Fanny St. Maur was no ingénue, no unsophisticated "young thing of sixteen." She had seen the world, and had ample cause to know its treachery, and to beware of "wolves in sheep's clothing;" but there was in Frank Egerton an appearance of truth, of simplicity, of "heart," which disarmed her from this first moment. Had he made one mis-step, said one word to awaken her mistrust then or afterward, this story would never have been written. But he knew his rôle perfectly; he played his part with sublime consistency.
                  How pleasantly he chatted away—how he amused and interested her! Smile followed smile, breaking at first slowly over her face; and then she caught herself replying—taking up the ball and tossing it back to him, jesting, laughing. Her eyes sparkled; her white hands playfully relearned their old tricks of gesture—she forgot!
                  
                  For one short half-hour she forgot that gaiety and herself had no longer partnership; that joy, and youth, and hope had fled forever from her.
                  The awaking was sudden. It was like a fresh stab through an old wound. She was very pale, and still, and silent.
                  Frank watched her with a growing sadness on his own bright face; he lowered his voice and was quiet too. The carriage was seen approaching, the footman following on the borrowed horse.
                  "May I come and see you?" Frank asked.
                  She shook her head. "I am sorry, but I decline all visits; my health is not strong enough to admit of society." This was her formula d'usage.
                  
                  "I am very, very sorry," he said. "And shall I then never see you again? Is it not hard to make an acquaintance which is so precious, and lose it at once? Can you not put me, as Lou's cousin, on the same footing as Lou's brother-in-law? I don't mean that I can ever hope to be so great a friend of yours, but let me come sometimes to try and amuse you. I will read to you, talk to you; you can send me away whenever you are tired of me."
                  He pleaded so like a child for a new toy that Fanny could not restrain a smile. Was this the man she was to fear?
                  
                  "Well, I will not press you any further. I shall come, and you may dismiss me if you choose—unless you forbid me from ringing your bell!"
                  She merely shook her head again; he put her in the hack, and stood looking at her until the coachman turned his horses and drove away. He then saw after her broken carriage, advised with the servants concerning it, and returned to the city.
                  Did you ever see a bloodhound track his prey? Did you ever see a cat play with a mouse? Did you ever see a man boldly or stealthily pursue a woman for her destruction, night and day, with patience, calmness, ardor, determination? It is a very pretty sight to those who like the sport. An amateur of such things would have delighted in noting the consummate skill with which Mr. Egerton—gentleman and man of honor—set out upon the glorious chase, hunted down the trembling, foolish, imprudent, lonely, weak creature, upon whom he fixed his lordly eyes, and brought her—to what we shall see. Of course she should have taken care of herself; of course she was old enough to know that man is the natural enemy of woman, etc.; but methinks Mr. Egerton, so accomplished a sportsman, ought to have selected different game, and not have brought his energies to the easy task of running down a "stricken deer," a wounded bird, whose drooping pinions and weary flight said at least, "Pity me!"
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR MRS. ST. MAUR: Pray send me the book you promised. I ought to be at work, but I am not. The fact is—but what is the use of writing about facts? When may I come and see you again? Write, if it be only one word—anything, so it comes from you.
                              
                                 "Yours respectfully,
                                 "FRANK EGERTON.
                                 "Monday."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "What a pertinacious child it is!" Fanny exclaimed to herself as she read this. "But how can I be angry with him? He is so honest, so simple, so unlike what I have heard of him—so very unlike my preconceived notions. He is impetuous, but it is the impetuosity of a fresh-hearted boy. Am I deceiving myself? Is he deceiving me?"
                  "The servant is waiting," suggested Fanny's maid.
                  She hurriedly wrote:
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR MR. EGERTON: You may come to-morrow evening. I send the book, but indeed I think you must be the idlest young man in this city.
                              
                                 "Very truly yours,
                                 "F. ST. MAUR.
                                 "Monday."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "I will ask Robert to drop in to-morrow evening; it shall not be a tête-à-tête," she thought.
                  Robert Vernon listened with perfect calmness to Fanny's announcement of this second visit in expectancy. She explained why she thought it neither imprudent nor unwise to receive this young gentleman. "You do not know him," she said; "you acknowledge that your acquaintance is very slight. Accident has thrown him in my way; he amuses me, and I never saw a more ingenuous, frank person. Indeed, you are prejudiced without cause."
                  "Perhaps so."
                  "Any way, what is the harm? He can not hurt me at all."
                  "Do you mean now to receive generally?"
                  "I don't think so."
                  "You had better."
                  "You will come to-morrow evening?"
                  "Indeed, you must excuse me."
                  Fanny persisted, and at length he said, "Very well," and hastened off.
                  The evening came: her little girls had spent the day with her—she was very sad, and her eyes showed traces of tears when her visitor entered. He said nothing, but looked the sympathy that delicacy forbade his uttering. Their conversation was broken and not brilliant. She was evidently too much out of spirits to talk, or even to listen.
                  At length Fanny broke a pause by saying abruptly,
                  "This must be your last visit."
                  "Impossible! Why so? In what have I offended you?"
                  "In nothing. But—indeed it seems absurd to seek for a reason. You will excuse my interdiction, believing that I am obliged to do so. I was wrong to let you in last week. I am wrong in speaking to you as I am doing now. We are utter strangers; and the truth is, Mr. Egerton, my position is a difficult one;" she colored deeply. "Your visits will excite remark; they already displease the few friends that I have."
                  "Who has the right"——
                  "To object to you? No one does so personally; it is only as you affect me, and give conversation to Mrs. Grundy."
                  "And are you so subservient to the requisitions of gossip and scandal?"
                  She looked steadily at him, and there was a pause.
                  "I feel that what I am going to say is not just what I ought to say. I have never been able to learn the phrases of society, to mold myself on the exact pattern of my neighbors. We are strangers, who, I grant you, seem to have a kind of sympathy for each other; we would, I make no doubt, grow into very good friends; but this can not be, and I am going to tell you why. Our acquaintance has sprung up like a mushroom, and now we must gather it, and not being sure whether it is the safe or the poisonous kind, it is wisest to throw it away. Do you understand me?"
                  "Not in the least."
                  "I think you do; but I will, nevertheless, go on and make myself clearer. I pass for being a very clever, shrewd woman; but I am in reality one of the least discerning, and the most credulous. Experience," she sighed, and her brow contracted, "has little profited me. I still have an obstinate belief in what people say. I like and dislike blindly. I listen and credit just as I pluck roses —I never can remember the thorns until my hand bleeds from them."
                  "Well?"
                  "The attentions you offer me, the pleasure I take in receiving them are, perhaps, a whole thicket of roses. You still look puzzled—frankly then, since you will have the fond de ma pensee, I am warned against you, as an insincere and unreliable person, who will only impose upon my credulity, profess an interest sufficient to interest me, and then go off and laugh at the simplicity of a woman old enough to be wiser. Spare me the storm I see threatening such thunder-bolts. You must not be angry—you forced me to be candid."
                  "I will not storm," Frank said, very calmly; "but who has given you such a picture of myself? By what authority has any one dared to accuse me of a character or practices which they would find impossible to prove?"
                  "Of course, you need not ask that. I speak selfishly, as they do—only for myself. I have a foolish way of taking every one au serieux—of giving way to involuntary confidence, and am, therefore, too easy a prey for designing men or women who——But enough of this. Believe me, Mr. Egerton, my own impressions of you are most agreeable, most prepossessing; do I not prove it by explaining my reasons, instead of coolly closing my doors?"
                  "Will you believe me in return?" He stood up before her, grave, earnest, eager. "You can ask my cousin, Mrs. Vernon, what I said of you ten days since: before I knew you, I liked you; I wished to know you. From the first moment of my introduction I felt that I was right in my anticipative regard. You say you are impulsive—so am I—with this difference; you have liked a great many people, I have liked very few. I offer you my friendship, such as it is. If I knew you a thousand years I would not feel more secure of myself than I do at this moment. I don't believe in time as the sole promoter of good feeling. I cannot understand why I have been belied to you. Trust me, I am not what you have heard; don't seek to find me so. Give me the privilege of visiting you, and proving that I am an honest man."
                  "I believe it."
                  "Thank you. I am satisfied."
                  "What an absurd conversation!" Mrs. St. Maur said, smiling. "We are behaving like people in novels—not like a lady and gentleman who were not bowing acquaintances a fortnight since. I fear you think me very unconventional."
                  "It is just that which I admire in you; if you were like everybody, dear Mrs. St. Maur, you would not be half so—what shall I call it?—so lovable."
                  "Lovable!" she repeated, "lovable—there is not"——She checked herself. "So, then," she continued, "we have vowed 'eternal friendship' in spite of opposition; but, remember"—and she raised her beautiful hand with its pink, shining, almond-shaped nails, a hand for a queen, a royal hand—"remember that to deceive me is an inglorious and shabby thing. It is like passing off a counterfeit bill on a blind man; taking his silver in exchange, and that, too, when the poor duped idiot has told you, 'I cannot see.'"
                  Egerton did not answer; his looks were eloquent enough. He pressed the beautiful hand and took his leave.
                  
                  Weeks passed, and the whole city knew that Mrs. St. Maur received the visits of Mr. Frank Egerton. Mrs. Grundy had always prophesied this. She shook her wise head, and had a great deal to say about it.
                  
                  Lou Vernon was uneasy. She felt that she had been instrumental in bringing fresh gossip upon her friend. She spoke to Fanny, and suggested that Mrs. St. Maur should drop her new acquaintance. But Fanny laughed, and protested against such capriciousness.
                  "Why on earth do you all attack poor Frank Egerton? Upon my word he is a very ill-used person; and it is not right for you, Lou, who must know how good he is, to join the outcry."
                  Lou applied to her brother-in-law.
                  "It is useless," Robert said, gloomily; "the mischief is done. It may never be worse. Encourage her to receive others; you will never succeed in making her banish Egerton until"——
                  "Until what?"
                  "Until he banishes himself."
                  "You keep, then, to your idea that he is flattering his vanity at her expense?"
                  "I do."
                  "Can't we stop it?"
                  "Stop the wind; stop the waves. We have to deal with an impetuous woman, ensorcelée by an unprincipled man."
                  "Oh, Robert, unprincipled!—who thinks so?"
                  "I do. I call any man unprincipled who, however ever honorable in his dealings with men, thinks no pledge binding with women."
                  "But he does not think that; on the contrary"——
                  "My dear Lou, time will show who is right, you or I. God grant that it may be you."
                  
                  The moon was shining straight into the window. It was a spring night, balmy, fresh, perfumed.
                  Two figures were clearly visible by its radiance. Is that softly-bright face, framed by the heavy braids of golden hair, the sad and pensive face of Fanny St. Maur? How much younger she looks! what a serene light in her hazel eyes! what a tender smile rests ever and anon upon her lips! And who has wrought this change? There sits the magician, enjoying his good work. Frank Egerton has drawn his low chair close to hers, and watches her as she speaks; but he is restless, gets up, walks about, returns and buries his head in his hands.
                  "What ails you?" Fanny asks at last. "You remind me of a polar bear prowling up and down his cage."
                  "I am not happy."
                  
                  "Singular announcement! which you give as a reply, just as one might say, 'I have a headache.' Who is happy, my poor Frank?"
                  "I might be."
                  "Why are you not, then?"
                  "Because it does not depend upon myself."
                  "On whom?"
                  "On you."
                  "What can I do for you?" she asked, evading the reply. "Tell your papa to advance more largely? Invite my pretty cousin, Rebecca Palmer, to tea when next you come? Tell Lou to make you godfather to"——
                  "Hush! you hurt me with this trifling. You must have long seen it. Fanny, I love you dearly, with my whole heart, with my whole soul. I have never loved any woman but you. I have never told any woman that I loved her. I have never loved till now. You are everything to me. I think of you from morning till night, from night till morning; sleeping or waking, you are ever present. I can do nothing but think of you. At my business, I sit dreaming. My body goes into society, my spirit is only where you are. I can't express to you what I feel. I have no words in which to say my love. Look at me—don't turn away—don't weep—for God's sake listen to me and love me!"
                  "Oh, Frank! Frank!" it was all she could say.
                  "Don't you believe me? Don't you feel that I love you?"
                  Her tears were falling fast and passionately; she wiped them away with eager haste.
                  "Don't speak to me of love. I have nothing to do with love. How can you grieve me so? We were, I thought, so happy—these past weeks have taken me away from my bitter life, and you wish to plunge me back into the black gulf? Have you no pity for me?"
                  "Fanny, this is unpractical and idle talk. Did you suppose that I could know you, see you, and not love you? Why should you not love and be loved."
                  "Because"—and she shuddered, and her face had its old look of pain, her eyes their weary sadness—"because you know my history; you know what I am, a divorcée, scorned by virtuous women, who live respectably with husbands whom they despise. For what do you take me? for a woman of intrigue? I am not one."
                  "Nor could I love you if I thought you were."
                  
                  "I could not, I dare not love again. If the Past did not arise between us, there are many other reasons; my own suspicious temper, my"——
                  "A strong, brave, generous heart is above suspicion."
                  "True; unless bitter experience has so crushed that heart that it neither reasons nor is itself. There is a madness—stay—in the book I was reading this morning—here it is—Bulwer, in speaking of his heroine, Nora: 'Sound physiologists agree that madness is rarest among persons of the finest imagination; but these persons are, of all others, liable to a temporary state of mind in which judgment sleeps, imagination alone prevails with a dire and awful tyranny. A single idea gains ascendency; expels all others; presents itself everywhere with intolerable blinding glare. Nora at that time was under the dread, one idea: 'I am freed, because not even benefits or confiding tenderness could bind to me one human heart. Free! but between me and every fresh nature stands suspicion as a upas-tree. Not a hope that would pass through the tainted air but falls dead under the dismal boughs. I love—I, whom the Past has taught the impossibility to be loved again? I should but debase every bright impulse by the curse of my own distrust. At each word of tenderness my heart says, How long will this last? when will deception cease? Look not at me with those reproachful eyes; they cannot reverse my purpose; they cannot banish suspicion from my sickened soul; create a sunshine in the midst of this ghastly twilight.'"
                  Fanny read these lines with deep emotion; her trembling voice could scarcely articulate. "They were written for us," she continued. "Turn away your 'reproachful eyes,' and let this all end at once and forever."
                  "You ask of me an impossibility. I love you! I love you—how dearly you cannot understand."
                  "I do not love you."
                  "Are you sure of that? Oh, consider before you answer me. I will wait. I will not urge you now to accept my love; but, when you will, say 'Come,' and I will be at your feet."
                  "I am older than you."
                  "I know it."
                  "I am exacting, willful, imperious."
                  "I know all your faults."
                  "Such an alliance would drive your family wild with indignation."
                  
                  "That is their affair, not mine."
                  "Are you prepared for the scandal, the talk, the unkind remarks, the false position you will occupy? Many doors will be closed upon you for my sake."
                  "How coolly you are arguing! Is this a business affair? a matter of calculation? of pros and cons? Your calmness maddens me."
                  "Do you think me very calm? I am calm as one who stands on the edge of a precipice; below, yawns a frightful abyss, threatening horror and death; beyond, is a sort of earthly paradise; a narrow plank, whose strength is yet untested, is flung across, and invites my weary, longing feet. Do you wonder that I pause and measure the danger?"
                  "Trust to the plank—it is of solid oak; sound to the core: if it fails you, may its ruin follow yours!"
                  Fanny shook her head. "Better stay where I am; sad, but safe."
                  Yet she listened, and he spoke with all the fiery ardor of youth, and passion, and first love(!). It was twelve o'clock. "Go home," she cried; "I will not hear or say a word more."
                  He left her, and the next morning before she was awake came a letter: "Dearest, loveliest, best"——
                  She hastily answered:
                  
                     "I have given you no right to address me thus. I am bewildered; like a boat at sea without mast or rudder. I perceive that I am in danger, and I feel helpless; but I insist upon liberty to direct my course as well as I can. Don't call me vacillating, for although I give you no leave to love me, I wish you to think well of me."
                  
                  His reply disarmed her:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR MRS. ST. MAUR: All that you claim you claim justly; and believe me that not in thought, word, or deed, will you suffer harm or annoyance from me. I am waiting—I cannot say patiently—but in spite of all that fills me with doubt, I am happy, very happy; and never has spring, with its songs and flowers, been so pleasant to my senses as this day. I have thrown myself into the stream and slumber; when I am dashed against a rock, it will be time enough to awake; till I do, and may I never! I am yours, simply and for no end, asking nothing but that you will let me see you as usual, that you will think well of me, and that you will do with me what you will. I am trusting to Time, your favorite test. See if he do not prove my friend in the end, by showing you how faithfully and entirely I am yours,
                              
                                 "FRANK EGERTON."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  And so the spider has woven its web, and the innocent dew-drops glisten upon it, and a full-grown fly, that knows spiders and webs, is yet attracted by the pretty natural diamonds, reflecting the sunlight, and she draws nearer and nearer. The sun is rising higher in the heavens each moment: presently the scorching rays will drink up the dew, but the fly has ventured too close! Poor fly! simple fly!
                  Day by day, Egerton's influence increased; all the more surely, because for the first time in her life the most impulsive, uncontrolled of women was prudent, and full of hesitation and doubt. She was firm and decided to a certain point; she would bind herself by no promise; enter into no engagement, although she felt each hour that Frank was dearer to her, and that to dismiss him seemed impossible.
                  Time passed. If not lovers, they were nearly so; if not betrothed, they were virtually pledged. It was on both sides apparently "All for Love, and the world well lost." Fanny avoided Robert Vernon's grave looks, Lou's anxious questions. Frank spent every moment of his time not demanded by his business at Mrs. St. Maur's. She lived in a Fool's Paradise, and was happy, supremely happy. Regret, remorse, past, present, future, her children, society, everything was swept from her mind, and one beautiful head, with its dark, passionate eyes, one voice, one human being made her world! Don't envy her; don't blame her! The dream was sweet, but ah, the awakening!
                  This could not last: Frank grew impatient. He was to wait upon her decision an eternity, but the eternity was drawing to a close. Fanny performed an act of the most daring hardihood and virtue.
                  "Go away," she said, "for a week; consider over all that I have said: I will do the same. On your return, we will decide if we are necessary to each other."
                  The week was very long to both. It ended like the eternity, and Frank presented himself once more.
                  It was hard to speak at first. Fanny was more anxious than she cared to acknowledge even to herself. His first words were,
                  
                  "Are you mine?"
                  "Yes!"
                  He folded her in his arms, close to his heart.
                  "I am yours," he said, "through life—till death. No obstacle—none can part us now. Yours, forever and forever!"
                  
                  "And must you go, darling?" Frank asked.
                  "Indeed I must. My uncle has always been very kind to me: he is ill, and has written to tell me so. It is only one of his usual attacks—it will not keep me a week. You will scarcely have time to miss me."
                  "You think so? Give me your hand: let those books alone. What a beautiful hand it is! and you look so lovely in this light."
                  "I am not lovely at all."
                  "You are to me, and that is enough for me. Who can compare with you in shoulders, arms, hair, eyes"——
                  "Oh! don't take an inventory of my perfections."
                  "Let me finish—and yet, after all, what is your beauty to me? I don't love you for your hands, and arms, and eyes; it is yourself—yourself—you! But, Fanny, let me look at you! are you crying? Oh, Fanny! tears, such passionate tears—what is it?"
                  "I don't know; I am wretched. I have been for days."
                  "For Heaven's sake, why?"
                  "Frank, do you love me?"
                  "You, only you, on earth."
                  "Will it last? will it last?"
                  "I have said it—I have sworn it! What can I do to convince you, to make you happy?"
                  She kneeled down beside him and he laid her head tenderly on his shoulder, stooping to kiss again and again her sorrowful eyes, her quivering lips.
                  "What is the matter! Are you jealous again? for you know you are a little jealous."
                  "Yes, I am jealous, and I am teasing, and I am sad, when I ought to be cheerful. Bear with me! think how much my spirit had been crushed, how broken I was before I knew you. I cannot entirely recover all at once. And then, to-night, a vague presentiment of some coming misfortune haunts me."
                  "You are too superstitious."
                  "Pardon that with all my other failings."
                  "Shall I write to you—will you write to me?"
                  
                  She grew more cheerful; but as they were about to separate some hours after, she threw herself into his arms suddenly, vehemently exclaiming, in the deep, low tone of concentrated passion, "a woman's passion, half fierceness and half tears," "Love me! oh, love me!"
                  "I do; I will. I am wayward; but I am true to you. What can I do to make you happy?"
                  
                  Fanny St. Maur was pacing her drawing-room with eager steps and agitated manner.
                  "What does it mean?" she said, aloud; "what does it mean? He cannot—he cannot"——
                  There was a ring at the street bell—a parley with the servant—a man's step upon the stair; was it his? It must be, and yet——She flew to the door: Robert Vernon entered.
                  "Dear Robert!" she said, and stopped.
                  "I wished to see you on your return, Fanny, but I feared you might not be alone. I would not have ventured up had not your servant assured me that there were no visitors."
                  "I am alone, as you see," she said, forcing a smile.
                  Robert asked her a few questions about her journey, her uncle's late illness, herself, her children. She answered mechanically—listlessly—then impatiently.
                  "Does my presence annoy you?" he asked, finally.
                  "Annoy me! when did you ever annoy me? Robert, if ever you cared for me, help me now! my brain is on fire, my mind distracted."
                  Oh, the kind pity of Vernon's face as he took the burning hand in his, and gazed mournfully at the poor stricken creature before him!
                  "Command me in any way, my child. I have never failed you yet—have I?"
                  "Never, never! but I do not know how you can help me." There was a silence, broken only by her convulsive sobs; each breath seemed to come with effort from her struggling bosom.
                  "I must speak," she said, at length; "your sympathy soothes me, and, besides, you may reassure me. It is only my fancy—there can be nothing wrong. Of course I expected to see Mr. Egerton to-day; he knew when I was to return. He did not come; and, lest there should be some mistake on his part about my arrival, I wrote to him. He replies by verbal message that he is engaged this evening.
                  Robert Vernon set his teeth firmly. Fanny continued tinued: "Can you understand it? Has anything happened among the Egertons? Perhaps"——
                  "Dearest Fanny, do not lose yourself in idle conjectures. Wait. Mr. Egerton will himself explain."
                  "Wait!" she repeated; "wait! with a serpent gnawing at your heart—suspicion barbing every fang. Robert, would he dare? has he been trifling with me? deceiving me? Has he pledged his honor and his word to love me through life till death; has he sought me in my sorrow and my deep grief; has he tracked me day and night with devilish skill to bring fresh misery upon a heart that was yet bleeding, when he deigned to stretch out his hand to stanch its wounds? Has he come, like the Samaritan, to succor the wounded man by the wayside, and, instead of wine and oil, pours melted lead and heaps fiery coals upon each bruise, each gaping agony?"
                  "Hush, hush, my poor child, my poor Fanny!" She was beside herself, wild with indignation, terror, doubt, despair.
                  "You will see him soon; he will explain. Have patience—faith."
                  "Faith! Yes, that is his word—the false word with which he has brought me to this. And you do not reproach me? You do not say, 'I warned you; I bade you beware of this traitor—this'"—
                  "Be calm—calm yourself, Fanny. Are you engaged to Mr. Egerton? plighted to him?"
                  "Solemnly. Do you think that unless he had sworn his truth and love to me, unless we were pledged by every sacred vow, I should feel as I do now?"
                  "Then I must believe that there is some accident, something we do not understand just yet, which prevents his coming. Believe in him still—in spite of everything, believe in him. Try to sleep. Your face is flushed, your hand feverish; you are over-fatigued, over-excited. Take off this pretty dress, and keep it in all its freshness until he can see how sweetly you look in it. To-morrow you will know all about the detention, and will smile at your own uneasiness."
                  Like a child, she wished Robert good-night, and obeyed his directions. He called her maid, saw her leave the room, and then his brow darkened with an angry frown. "Scoundrel!" he muttered; "and no man will refuse him his hand, no mother her daughter, no door will be shut in his face, and the world will still call him honorable! But patience—patience—for her sake, patience."
                  Shall we visit the sleepless pillow of Fanny St. Maur? Shall we watch beside her as, restless and miserable, the hours slowly and drearily chime upon her ear, and the black and weary night melts into the bright and weary day? Oh, sad heart! sad heart! cease thy wild complainings. 
                        
                           "No rest for thee but dying,
                           Like waves whose strife is past."
                        
                     
                  
                  What a sermon is this woman! See her! She sits with bended head, her elbow on her knee, her chin upon her hand, outwardly calm, inwardly devoured by such raging thoughts that, like the stream banked up, if you but remove the barrier, it can never be controlled again.
                  She does not read, she cannot write; impossible to pass a needle through a piece of canvas, and fancy herself occupied. Every book either recalls him or seems to answer gloomily to her own position. She tries to pray—she prays for peace, rest, peace. What wild, ineffectual prayers! She strives to give her heart to God, and one man's image fills it! "Give me back, oh, give me back," she cries, "the calm sadness in which, three months ago, I was slowly gathering comfort! This tempest is destroying me. Peace, peace, peace!"
                  Night comes, day has gone—no word, no sign, and thus time creeps on till another week is added to the world's age, and each minute is marked in indelible blows on the watchful face and sickened mind of Fanny St. Maur.
                  At last! He is announced, he is coming, he is there—there, in that room where they parted! But for her pride, even then she would have thrown herself upon his breast, and sobbed out her terror and her anguish, and her deep, deep love!
                  He offers his hand as if they were mere acquaintances; he is pale and very self-possessed. She gives him her hand mechanically, and looks at him with wild, staring, miserable eyes.
                  He speaks of this thing and of that; she answers like an automaton; she is stunned. But at length her tumultuous thoughts, her maddening thoughts must have vent.
                  "Am I dreaming?" she asks. "Is this you? is this myself? what is it? I am going mad, I think. Answer me. I have every right to feel outraged and indignant. I know of nothing to produce this conduct duct. What have I done? Where have you been? Answer me. Why do you give me so much pain? Why have I not seen you? heard from you?"
                  "Because"—and Frank Egerton's voice was as unmoved as if he were answering his footman or speaking to his dog—"because our intimacy is ended, our engagement has ceased."
                  Fanny started up, confronting him with disdain—scorn, contempt, flashing fearfully from her worn face.
                  "Repeat that," she said; "repeat your words. I cannot take them in."
                  "We parted forever when we parted the last time. I had not meant to come at all, but I have come, and you must hear me patiently. I did not intend to offer any explanation, but I will do so. A union between us is impossible; my family oppose it. To marry you renders it necessary for me to give them up, and to abandon society. I am young. I have my way to make in the world. I cannot consult alone my own pleasures and wishes. Absorbed by you, my whole life was in this house, and nowhere else. I am twitted on all sides for my reckless devotion. Every man I meet alludes to my romantic and unpractical views for the future. It is best for both of us. You were unwilling to love me; you can return to what you were, and you will soon forget me."
                  Slowly, like one who speaks in her sleep, she asked,
                  "Why have you not told me this before? Why have I waited in this dire suspense all this wretched week? You might have given me at once the merciful dagger-stroke, and not have broken me on the wheel."
                  "Had I come here at first, I never could have spoken at all. It has cost me a mighty effort—but I did not think that you would have felt it so much. You look ill."
                  "'I had not thought the old man had so much blood in him,'" Fanny repeated, bitterly. "You strike, and wonder to see the blood flow. But this is folly. We are acting a play—a very cruel one to me. You are testing me—trying the strength of my attachment. I have so often doubted your sincerity—you have so implored me to have faith in you—to believe in you—that, wearied of my peevish distrust, you are seeking to see if I really could think you dishonorable. The test is unkind, overwhelming—I have no strength to bear it. End the game; you are destroying me."
                  
                  Timidly, but tenderly, she placed her hand on his shoulder, and tried to smile.
                  He did not move nor speak. Doggedly he looked ahead, as if he were not aware of her action.
                  "Would you wish me to believe that you have deceived me?"
                  "I have never deceived you. In what I said, in what I vowed, I was entirely sincere. Circumstances compel me to retract those vows; but I made them honestly."
                  "Honestly! honestly! Yours is not the tongue to use that word. Your code of morals does not demand honesty as its foundation. An honest man does not swear 'during convenience,' or 'depending upon circumstances.' He does not give to another claims upon him which he forgets and dishonors."
                  "I do not forget them—I do not dishonor them. I break them for your sake and for mine. Be magnanimous, and forgive me; or else hate me."
                  "So"—she spoke with withering scorn—"you see no degradation to yourself, no breach of honor, in this wanton business? You would not dare cunningly to delude a man into trusting you—to make him risk his last dollar, his credit, his hopes, his all, in some wild scheme—and then when the poor idiot, forgetting his past failures and blasted fortunes, looks for a future of rest and peace, withdraw yourself from the connection, and scatter the venture to the winds! But I am raving—I am wild—I am foolish; my brain turns—I do not know what I say—I cannot tell what I feel. Heaven, earth, right, wrong, justice, honor, love, faith, truth, all is one cruel chaos. Help me! save me! There are strange lights before my eyes—dark phantoms chase me with their sneering, wicked faces! Frank, I love you—I love you so wildly and so deeply, that—I think—I fear"——
                  She fell to the floor. He caught her up with eager haste, and rang for assistance.
                  Physicians came and exchanged grave looks. Mrs. Vernon, with streaming eyes, asked their opinion, their fears. "The brain," was all they said. She nursed her friend day and night. Painful was the ordeal; unflinchingly she bore it. There was a weight of remorse heavy on the little woman's conscience. Fanny's incoherent and burning words soon revealed the mischief that had been done; and what sad and bitter hours Lou passed at her bedside! To see the prostrate and wasted form of this late charming woman, to watch the fever in its fatal course, was terrible enough; but Robert Vernon's anguished face, his deep, reproachful eyes, his utter misery, was the overflowing drop in her cup of penitence and sorrow. And yet they could only guess at the truth. Neither would question Mr. Egerton; and the fever was supposed to have originated at——, the residence of Fanny's uncle, whence she had come so recently, and where typhus was numbering its victims by scores.
                  "Those are mine," Robert said, when the luxuriant and beautiful golden hair was shorn, braid after braid, from the burning head of the sufferer. She snatched at them herself, and wound a long tress about her thin, transparent wrist, and smiled; saying, softly, "You think it pretty, darling?" Then she plucked it away with a shudder, shrieking, "It stings me! Kill that snake—that wily, creeping snake! It has stung me to the heart, and mocks me with its glittering, savage, cruel eyes!"
                  "Is she any better?" Mrs. Vernon asked, on the twentieth day of her friend's illness. "Is there any hope?"
                  The doctor paused before he replied. He was a kind-hearted man, and did not need to inquire if Mrs. Vernon loved the poor senseless thing lying so restlessly before them, turning her head with ceaseless beat from side to side.
                  "Will she recover?"
                  "We must almost wish that she will never recover," he said, very gravely and sadly. "Prepare yourself. Should Mrs. St. Maur live, it will be without her reason. Her mind has fled, I fear, forever."
                  "O God—great God! You are not in earnest? You are not sure?"
                  "It is almost certain. Her mind has been tasked, I fancy, beyond its strength for many, many years. An excitable temperament, too great sensitiveness, a constant strain upon her nerves, and a lack of self-control, have predisposed her to this end; I may be mistaken; let us still hope it. Courage, my dear Mrs. Vernon, don't give way, now."
                  
                  "You wished to see me?" Mrs. Vernon said, an hour or two after this painful, this frightful intelligence. She spoke to her cousin.
                  He held out his hand; she folded her arms and looked at him.
                  
                  "Never! never!" she exclaimed, with vehement energy, trembling but firm. "How dare you meet my eye? How dare you venture to this house?"
                  "I dare do anything," he said, haughtily.
                  "Do you boast of it? It is rare, I hope, to find a man who makes a matter of pride of what should fill him with shame and remorse."
                  "You are bitter, Louisa, and unjust."
                  "Thank God, I am neither a villain nor a liar; bitter I may be, my injustice I do not perceive."
                  "You condemn me unheard."
                  "Let me hear you, then; our interview must be short, for your victim needs me. That sounds well, does it not? You have lived a romance, complete in all its volumes. Reynolds could accept you as a hero."
                  "Of what do you suspect me?"
                  "Ah! it is for me, then, to speak! What have you done? I will tell you; for during these long wretched days my poor Fanny's unconscious lips have revealed almost the whole story, have confirmed what I suspected and dreaded. You have, with specious words and actions, forced and wheedled yourself into the confidence and affections tions of a woman who never had harmed you, never sought you—who believed in you, defended you, loved you, in spite of warning, in spite of prejudice. You offered her your hand—resented her doubts—entreated her faith. She told you her faults, her history; she laid before you the obstacles in yourselves, in society; she begged you for your own sake even more than for hers, to wait; 'Let both be wise and neither hasty'—were not those her words?—she has repeated them so often. You called her natural hesitation 'coldness,' 'calculation;' you won her heart, deserted and abandoned her without provocation, without compunction. Ah! a woman's heart! such a mere trifle! her affections, such frivolous possibilities! What are they? You can't see them, touch them—they don't exist therefore."
                  "Don't you believe that I love her?"
                  "You! You love Frank Egerton so fully and entirely that you have not room to care for anything else."
                  "Judge by my future life if I love her or not. I was happier in those few weeks than I ever was or ever shall be again—than I ever care to be. But our union was a mad dream. Everything was against us. It is more for her sake than for mine that I have thus decided. As she is she will command the respect of the world, the esteem of her children. In my love I forgot at first all that I remembered afterward, and"——
                  "Your cold-blooded reasoning disgusts and wearies me. It was for her to decide whether she accepted the new views that you deliver with such apparent self-satisfaction. I blame her for listening to you, for falling into the pit which your false hands digged. You never have loved her, never! If your conscience acquits you of infamy, so much the better (or worse) for you."
                  "Infamy!"
                  "Oh! don't raise your voice at me. Don't flash your eyes. I repeat, infamy. You are at liberty to quit my presence when my words don't suit you. There are some positions which engage a man's whole existence; this was one. I sometimes think that this was a wager. If so, you have won it. Acknowledge; you bet with John Percy, or Louis, or Stanhope Grey, that you would force the consigne of Mrs. St. Maur's doors, and make a fool of the guarded mistress of the mansion. Enjoy your triumph like a gambler, who plays with an honest greenhorn and beats him with cogged dice and marked cards! Oh, Frank! Frank! my blood runs in your veins, we are near of kin; if my son, my little Charley, my curly-headed five-year-old boy, should live to be what you are! Have you no compunction? no remorse?"
                  "None. I did what I thought was right; I would do it again. How is Mrs. St. Maur today?"
                  "Shall I tell you? Dr. Bennett says—can you bear it? will not even you be touched?"
                  "Say on."
                  "There are but two alternatives—death or madness. We have lost forever that bright vision, that mournful wreck, her past and her present—we have lost forever poor, hapless, doomed Fanny St. Maur."
                  Tears drowned the words. Egerton's head was buried in his hands. Presently he went to his cousin; he was pale as death.
                  "Does any one know?" he asked.
                  "The cause of her illness? No. You are safe," she said, with withering scorn; "and anyway, who is there to defend her? Who is there to wreak vengeance on the man who has destroyed her? Only Robert Vernon, who loves her, and has long loved her, but whose interference to protect her would but widen the misery, increase the scandal. But beware of him, Egerton; never cross his path, nor give him an opportunity. You are trembling. A coward too?"
                  "I disdain to answer you. In this, as in all else, you misunderstand me. We part now for life. I forgive you your harsh words—may you learn to forgive me!"
                  
                  In a private madhouse, not far from the great city, a pretty country place, cheerful and comfortable, resides Fanny St. Maur.
                  She is very quiet this morning. Her short, waving hair gives her a very youthful look; her light, girlish figure is dressed with care and elegance. You would scarcely think, to see her, that she neither reasons nor understands. Lou Vernon has come to pay her daily visit—it is a daily penance.
                  Fanny knows her, and likes to see her. Fanny is seldom violent, but always sad.
                  Robert Vernon joins them; he looks like an old man. He kisses Fanny on her white forehead, and smooths back the rich ringlets that fall over it. She smiles, and calls him "Father," and holds his cold, trembling hand in hers, stroking it fondly with her rose-tipped fingers.
                  She cries and shivers when they get up to go away, and tells them how lonely she is except when the moon comes to visit her and brings a few stars, but Jupiter has quarrelled with her recently; and so she prattles on in a silly way, and they leave her.
                  Years have passed. Her daughters are grown women, and well married. They do not neglect her, but she is the great grief and blot of their lives; yet they like to talk of her to Mrs Vernon, to recall how bright and graceful and charming she was, and they cherish Robert Vernon as her friend and theirs.
                  They know nothing of the last events of her worldly life; but one evening at a concert, Mr. Vernon saw Georgiana, the elder girl, about to speak to Frank Egerton. Not that Mr. Egerton sought her, but she remembered having seen him at "poor mamma's," and held out her hand to him as he passed. Robert moved swiftly between them, caught Georgy's hand, and said, distinctly and slowly:
                  
                  "Never recognize that——person! he is my bitterest enemy; and but for reasons that you must never ask, he or I would have died long before this."
                  The two men exchanged looks of dire hatred. Frank scornfully curled his proud lip, and seemed about to speak, but a shadow crossed his brow, his eyes fell, and he turned and moved away.
                  Has this man of honor a conscience? is his rest easy? his life happy? I do not know. I do not care to know.
                  For her—since it is God's will—she breathes, exists. Better, far better, had she died. But for such sorrows there is still a mightier punishment—to live with reason, recollection, memory, feelings, thought, all strong, yet blighted—alive, yet withered, sapless, dead!
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
