
    ----CITATION----
        Brandon, Curris.. David Woodburn, the Mountain Missionary .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5886
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  FRONTISPEICE 
               
             
             
          
          
             
             
             
               David Woodburn, 
               THE MOUNTAIN MISSIONARY. 
             
            BY CURRIS BRANDON.
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        "Some village Hampden, that with dauntless breast 
                        The little tyrant of his field withstood, 
                        Some mute, inglorious Milton, here may rest; 
                        Some Cromwell, guiltless of his country's blood." 
                     
                   
                  GREY'S ELEGY. 
                
             
            
               BOSTON: 
               PUBLISHED BY HENRY HOYT. 
               No. 9 Cornhill.
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by HENRY HOYT, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts. 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               
                  CHAPTER I. Being Explanatory, Page 5
                
               
                  CHAPTER II. A Colloquy, 14
                
               
                  CHAPTER III. Which Treats of David's Education, 27
                
               
                  CHAPTER IV. A New Character is Introduced, 38
                
               
                  CHAPTER V. A Revival of Letters, 50
                
               
                  CHAPTER VI. David Undertakes a Journey, 56
                
               
                  CHAPTER VII. Showing How David Returned Home, 105
                
               
                  CHAPTER VIII. The Head-Waters of Fall River, 124
                
               
                  CHAPTER IX. A Close Bargain, and a Little Romance, 203
                
                
               
                  CHAPTER X. And What Came of It, 234
                
               
                  CHAPTER XI. The Great Shooting-Match, 255
                
               
                  CHAPTER XII. An Odd Specimen of Game, 273
                
               
                  CHAPTER XIII. The Back Fork of Fall River, 286
                
             
          
       
      
         
            David Woodburn, the mountain missionary 
            THE MOUNTAIN MISSIONARY. 
             
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               Being Explanatory. 
               DAVID Woodburn was born, and passed his earlier years in one of the wildest mountain districts our country presents. Were you to take your stand on the summit of the great central mountain of that region, you would see beneath, as far as the eye can reach, a vast forest in every direction. Not a village meets the eye; not a church spire points upward through the dense masses of foliage, that in the leafy seasons, seem to rise and fall with the inequalities of the surface of the low spurs that shoot out from its base on every side. 
               This district, westwardly, never had any name that I know of, except the head waters of Fall River. And this central mountain, that stands amid the jutting spurs, like a giant among his little brothers, is called Fall Mountain. And here, on its summit, are the sources of two great rivers. One springs from the rocks, pure and sparkling, and flowing in a north-westerly direction, constantly increases by the addition of other streams, till it swells to the magnitude of a river; it has a name, too, which is familiar to all my readers. After traversing a long stretch of country, embracing mountain and valley, towns, villages, forests and farms, it loses its name in another great river, and at last helps to swell the clear waters of the Ohio. 
                
               Its near neighbor, another babbling, dancing little rivulet, flows off north-easterly; down the mountain slope it, flashes, gathering strength and volume by the addition of many a sister stream, till it also arrives at the dignity of a name, and that is Fall River. And here it turns to the north-west, as though it were seeking for its lost sister, of the mountain top. But their currents do not unite until they both have lost their crystal pureness in the turbid waters of the Great Kanawissa. 
               This rough country has its dwelling places, and a population sparse though it be. Fall River flows through the centre of a narrow strip of land, which I shall call a valley, though it scarcely deserves the name. This strip is hemmed in by the mountains on either side. Sometimes they stretch down, almost to the verge of the river, leaving only room for a narrow bridle path. Again a broad meadow, and upland will intervene. Here the hardy mountaineer has built his cabin, of unhewn timber, with its roof of clapboards, and the floor of split logs, with the flat side turned uppermost. There were no saw-mills in those days, probably there are none yet. The window was made by sawing out a piece of a log, and inserting a rough frame, which contained a row of panes of glass, the number of which, depended on the. ability of the owner to purchase; just as with us, the rich have French plate glass eighteen-by-twenty, and the poor must be content with common ten-by-twelve. The door of these cabins often had leather hinges, and generally a wooden latch, which was lifted by means of a string attached to it, running through a hole above. Then the owner would have his patch of Indian corn, another of potatoes, and sometimes a field or two, of wheat; but this was rare. Cattle might have been kept there the year round, without any expense, but for one reason. The mountains would have afforded inexhaustible pasturage, but occasionally, a winter would come so severe that the cattle must have starved, without more food than the mountains afforded. Such winters did not often occur, but still it was necessary, in order to keep cattle always, to have a large stock of hay, or fodder of some kind, on hand from year to year. 
               It followed, therefore, that a farmer who could afford this extra store of corn fodder, and stacks of hay, was a rich man in the settlement. True, many of the settlers did attempt to keep cattle, and it was a very poor man indeed who did not have some; but alas, when one of those cold winters occurred, and the snow lay thick on the ground, they often starved to death. After all, hunting was the main business and dependence of the majority of the people. 
                
               But the inhabitants of the valley, were not all the population; for Fall River has its branches as they are called. The mountains that fling their dark shadows over its waters, seem to break in twain at irregular intervals, as if to make a pathway for those bright little tributaries, that come leaping and dancing down to mingle their laughing waters with its swift current. 
               These water courses are called gaps or gorges, indifferently, by the people. And let any traveller be bold enough to make an exploring tour up any one of them, and he will find more than the leaping, dancing waters. On every little level stretch of ground, he will see the cabins of the settlers; just such cabins as those described above, where the inhabitants live in primitive simplicity. If they are not happy, it is not because of any knowledge they possess of the great world, from which they are shut out by their mountain barriers. 
                
               It was far up one of these gorges, that the family lived, of which I am writing. They were among the poorest of the settlement. The father, though an honest, hard-working man, was what would be called in New England, shiftless. He and his son David, worked by the day, for the small farmers round. Their pay was never in money, but always in trade of some kind, mostly provisions, which they, in the parlance of the country, toted home on their backs. 
               In this way, and by occasionally killing a bear, a deer or a wild turkey, they managed to live above want, and sometimes to fare sumptuously. The mother was a woman of a meek, quiet temper, strong common sense, and much shrewdness. She spun, wove, and made all the clothing for the family, and earned something, by weaving the coarse grey cloth, made of wool and cotton mixed, which was worn by all the people in the settlement. 
                
               Their cabin consisted of two apartments, one below on the first floor, was pretty well filled. A loom in one corner, a bed in another; some shelves containing their scanty stock of crockery, with a pine table underneath; four chairs, the seats woven of hickory withs, split, and scoured, until white as wood can be made; the spinning wheel, and its accompanying reel; a looking glass on the wall, with the inevitable square of flowered paper behind it; two guns suspended on hooks over the mantel shelf, which contained also, a wooden clock, the work of some cunning Yankee, in far New England, but which was only kept for ornament, for the small hand pointed invariably to the figure twelve. Besides all these, there were strings of dried pumpkins, and apples, stretched across the brown beams overhead, and bunches of wild grapes hung in every available place. Several pairs of antlers were fastened on the wall, on which were hung dresses, hunting shirts, hanks of yarn, and bunches of herbs, in short every thing that could be hung up, in order to keep it out of the way, and ready for use. The apartment above, was called the loft: it was appropriated to David, and was reached by means of a ladder on the outside. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               A Colloquy. 
               I TELL you what, now, Sary Jane, no good'll ever come of it, because its agin' natur." 
               "What natur, husband? not human natur, I'm sure; for there's Hannah Wilson, she's be'n livin' over there in the Blue Grass Mills, and she says even the children can read, and they've got a school-house built, and the school-master boards round among the scholars. And if we could only get a school up here; there's need enough, dear knows! and then our David could get some edication, and since the boy has set his heart on learnin', why-" 
               "I tell you what, wife, its no use talkin' that-a-way; our boy has got to make his livin' by hard work, as his father did afore him. How are we goin' to live, if he gets them notions of high larnin' into his head? I don't know as your readin' has ever done you any good." 
               "Oh, dear me, John Thomas, don't talk so. I can't read none of any account, an' if I could, what have I got to read? Why just nothin' but the piece of a Bible, my poor old mother gave me on her death-bed. You see, there was three of us, and she wanted each one to get some; so she made my sister Poka cut it into three parts; and I allus think, that Poka kept the best part for herself, for there was precious readin' in hern-all about the Lord Jesus Christ. How He was born in a stable; and how He was so poor Himself, that He had no home of his own; and how He went up and down the country, all the time a doin' good, and was dressed like a servant, and cured all the sick people; and even raised a dead man to life, after he had been buried in the ground a long time, I forget now, how long." 
               "Pshaw! Sary Jane, you don't believe them tales I hope? Why they've got one o' them books down at Col. Withers'. I heard 'em readin' in it, an' it tells about a fish that swallowed a man, an' then threw him up again on dry land; an' the man was just as good as ever. Now do you believe that?" 
               "Why yes, if it's in the Bible, of course I do; it stands to reason that if it's in the Holy Bible it's true." 
               "Well, my opinion is, that it's a fish story." 
               "No John. Things happened in them days, as don't happen now. I know them things did all happen, you see, for the people wouldn' a Believed if strange things hadn't happened; I'm sure its no stranger, nor what Davy read to us last night, about the sea dryin' up, to make a path for the Lord's people, when all the Egyptians were drownded. Oh me, I wish I had a whole Bible. Hannah says, there's been a man goin' about there at the mills, and all along Old River, and he gives away books, and Bibles, too; she says he gives 'em to poor folks for nothing but thankee. I only wish he would come along this way; she says they call him a Col-Cul-no-" 
               "But I know it's a Culpepper he is, an' they call him that because-because-I reckon-" 
               "Well John, what do you reckon?" 
               "Why, I reckon as how, they call him that, because his books are all manufactured down there in Culpepper county; what else? I saw him when I was over to the Flats, he's a reddish faced- man and wears a wig, because his head is bald." 
               He's none the worse for that John, and he must be a mighty good man, to travel about among the poor folks, just to do them good, and it's bad goin' among the hills, it is; I reckon he's tired when he lays down at night." 
               "I tell you what Sary Jane, you're saft if you believe them tales. He's well paid, I'll be bound. I heard Col. Withers, a speakin' to major Sly, about him, an' the Major said, it wor an abolition concern, an' if he came around among his servants, he'd horse-whip him, that he would." 
               "John, I'm 'stonished at you; don't you know that Sly is nothin' but a niggur-trader? an don't he buy the poor things as if they were cattle, an' carry 'em to the cotton plantations, an sell 'em? Such a man is'nt fit for decent white folks to speak to. But as for the school teacher, she's willin' to come, Hannah says." 
                
               "Pshaw, wife, talk about a school here. How'd the children get over the mountings? And where's the pay to come from?" 
               "Oh the children could git along well enough, don't they run everywhere? I wasn't thinkin' of a school up here, but down in the. valley. Depend upon it John, them old fellows has got money; now there's Pussy Giles's father; why Puss says he has a stockin' foot crammed full of silver dollars, and half dollars, and dimes and quarters; and Puss is crazy to go to school, ever since she was over to Graysonville at her grandmother's, and if they would only make up a school down there, why you know our Davie-" 
               "There it is again, our Davie's got to work, wife. How could I scrape for you all, if he was gone? We can hardly keep soul an' body together now." 
               "Well, as for keeping soul and body together er, why, they can't always stay together, they've got to part company some time, you know, John; and I reckon it'll be the worse for us, if we don't take some care of our souls, as well as our bodies, since they're nothin' but clay, an' can't last long no how." 
               "Well, Sary Jane, ever since you was at the big meetin' over to the Sinks, you've bin kind a skeery about yer soul. But God knows, it puts us up to all we know to get as much food as we need, and a little clothes for our backs. But what that has to do with our Davie's learnin' to be a scholar, I can't see." 
               "Yes it has though, John, if you only heard him talk, it would make the tears come in your eyes. He's always askin' me questings that I can't answer, and a sayin' things that I don't understand, and sometimes, I most think the angels talk to him; for I've seen him at the window in the loft, when he thought nobody saw him; when the sun was goin' down, and the clouds looked so bright, and the mountain tops like scarlet and gold. And there he would stand with his hands clasped, and his lips a movin'-I'm sure he was talkin' to somethin', and if it wasn't the Angels I don't-" 
               The sentence was left unfinished for Davie himself now entered. He was a tall, stout boy, of perhaps fourteen years old. His complexion, naturally fair and ruddy, bore evidence of constant exposure to summer's heat and winter's cold. Features faultlessly regular, a fine, broad, open forehead, eyes of that indescribable color, which some might call brown, others blue, and others again, might have pronounced them grey, the truth was the color of Davie's eyes depended very much on the mood he was in; to these we will add, a profusion of short, crisp, chestnut curls, which seemed never willing to stay any where, and which Davie had an inveterate habit of tossing back with his hand whenever he had anything to say. His clothes were of grey home-spun, woven and made up by his mother's busy fingers; they were clean and whole, though well patched. A coarse cotton shirt, white as snow, with its narrow collar turned down over a black ribbon, showed plainly the care that mother took of her pretty rustic boy. He was the only child of these parents, the mother's darling, and as is commonly the case, among rich and poor, she thought him a paragon of beauty and attainments. Certainly her standard of excellence was not very high in the common acceptation of the term. 
               It was late in the evening, when Davie came in, bringing with him an armful of split pine-knots, which he proceeded to pile up carefully in the corner of the ample fire-place. He then hung his cap on a peg, and the family sat down to supper. It was simple enough, hot corn bread, and boiled hominy, and each had an earthern bowl of milk. When the meal was over the mother cleared away the things, set the room in order, and then, taking her knitting work, sat down by the fire. The father took his pipe from the mantel, filled, and lighted it, and commenced smoking. 
               After casting a furtive glance at his father, Davie went out, and presently returned with a small slate in his hand; after holding it up for his mother to see, he drew a chest from under the bed, and taking out the piece of a Bible spoken of by his mother, he threw a pine-knot on the fire. Then taking a seat in the chimney corner, he began to transcribe on the slate, the letters from the book. His mother smiled, and nodded approvingly; his father puffed away at his pipe. At length, however, the old man seem to awaken to the fact, that his son was doing something unusual, for he sung out, 
               "Hi, Davie, what on earth are you doin' now?" 
               "Why, father, I'm learning to write on this slate. It's my own slate; you see I sent all my skins over to the Flats with Powie Grey, and he traded them for this slate, and I got it, and. all these pencils," here Davy displayed a handful of that useful article. 
               "Well, a fool and his money is soon parted. I reckon now you think you're goin' to make a grand scholar, ain't you? 
               The boy's face turned crimson; he threw back his head, brushed his curly locks with his hand, and looked at his mother, who as usual on such occasions came to the rescue. 
               "Now, John Thomas, what's the use in talkin' in that agrawatin' way to the child? skins ain't money, no how. I would like to know whenever ever you got money for peltry. I think Davie laid out his peltry to very good purpose if he learns to write by it." 
               "Yes, if he learns to write by it, but what's in the book, isn't writin', it's printin'." 
               "Well, if Davie learns to make the letters, like they are in the book, I reckon folks can read it all the same. And it's mighty mean, doin' the way he had to do; to spread sand on a board, and make the letters with his finger. Or, Davie dear, was it a stick you made them with? Any how you know yourself John, that he has learned to make all the letters, and he makes 'em real well, too. Yes, Davie dear, you go on, and learn to make all the letters, and learn to write, too; some day you may be something, who knows." To this Mr. Woodburn had no reply to make; the truth was, that he rather looked upon his wife as a superior woman; she could read, while he could not, and secretly, he was rather pleased with the idea that Davie could read too. Thanks to his mother's unremitting care. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               Which treats of David's Education. 
               TIME passed on with our friends in the mountains, very quietly and smoothly. The old man and Davie went every morning to work and returned in the evening. Occasionally they went hunting, as Davie was a good shot, and being also very successful in opossum hunting, he had another stock of peltry ready for market. This time he traded for an Arithmetic; a copy of "Smith's new Arithmetic," which had by some means, strayed out of its latitude into that benighted region. No matter, to Davie it was a treasure. With what delight he had at first worked out its simple examples; but in a short time he found that they were too simple; and turning to those more complicated, finally mastered the book, and began to sigh for another. That slate, too, was an unlimited source of pleasure and amusement. On it, he had transcribed at different times, almost the entire contents of that remnant of the Bible, which was indeed the only book the house contained, until the advent of that famous Arithmetic, which was a new comer, as it were, and for which Davie soon began to entertain a hearty contempt, inasmuch as he had walked through it, backwards and forwards, and in six weeks could find nothing that puzzled him any more. 
               I am sorry to say, that Davie about this time, began to grow discontented and unhappy on occasions; he got into a habit of looking away, beyond the mountains that surrounded him, and wondering what that great world was, of which he knew so little. It seems however, that he never once thought of going off, and testing its untried paths; he was too tenderly devoted to his loving, gentle mother for that. One of his most ardent desires, was to possess a Bible. It appears that in the division of the Bible, among the legatees of Mrs. Woodburn's mother, the apportionment had been somewhat partial, for the share that fell to her, contained only the Pentateuch, together with the books of Joshua, Judges, and Ruth, ending with the first book of Samuel. This was a small part of the word of God; but if every one would make as good use of his or her, whole Bible, as Davie and his mother made of their poor tattered remnant of one, what a different affair would the religion taught in its blessed pages, appear in the eyes of the world. Indeed, they had not even so much entire, for, by some unaccountable accident, the first three chapters of Genesis were lost. But that happened long before Davie's time. 
               Mrs. Woodburn used to lament over that sad accident very often. She always wound up those lamentations, by saying in a subdued tone, "It was the baby that's dead, tore them leaves out, and I never knew it, till they were all in bits. Poor little Johnny." 
               David and his mother used to have long conversations at night, sitting by the great log fire, that roared and crackled up the chimney; and at such times, his curiosity to know what else was in the Bible, was truly painful to his mother; for she was not able to answer the questions. She had been taught to read and also to write a little, in her early youth. But when she married, and settled with her husband in this out-of-the-way-place, where few could read, fewer could write, and books were unknown, she had forgotten all she ever knew, of either the one or the other; and she would have remained so no doubt, but for the simple reason, that David, in his early childhood, had always insisted that she should tell him what was in the book, that was covered with deer-skin, and laid away so carefully in that chest under the bed. 
               Tired out at length, by his importunities, she set about in earnest, to revive her stock of learning. She soon recovered what she had lost, and then she set to work to teach her son to read. He was an apt Scholar, and very soon he could read better than his mother; of this she was very proud. But alas, she had never read the Bible while young, so she could not enlighten him much as to anything more than was contained in the scanty portions they possessed. 
                
               Once, in answer to his oft-repeated question, she said, "It was a very big book, Davie. But. I was young then; besides I didn't know what a precious book it was, and I couldn't read as well then, as I can now." 
               "But, mother, can't you remember just a little bit, of what is torn out at the beginning?" 
               "No, child, it was the baby tore it; it was very wrong in me to let him have it, but you see, I didn't know then, it was such a precious book, and he was sick; yes he died next day. Poor little Johnny." 
               "But, mother, I always think we'll get a Bible some day; Powhattan, says, that Mr. Spicer told his father, that they don't cost so very much money, some of them at least; and Mr. Spicer says, it's a real shame for the folks along the valley to be living without the Bible in their houses. Powie says, too, that some of them old fellows along the valley, get lots of money for their cattle." 
               "Yes, Davie, and I've been thinkin' that we might spare White Face, and then if we had the money you know, we might send it to Mr. Spicer, at Briarton; they tell me, there's a book-store there, where they keep Bibles for sale." 
               "Oh, for that matter, there is Bibles for sale at Greysonville, and that's not half as far." 
               "Yes, but I always feel like lookin' to Mr. Spicer, somehow; when I was down to the Sinks, to the meetin' you know, Davie and I told him how much I needed a new Bible; he promised to speak to somebody that keeps 'em, about us, and see if he wouldn't do somethin', I forget now what it was, but I reckon he's forgot. But still I do think, as how we might sell White Face, if a drovier would only come along." 
                
               Upon this, the old man roused himself: "Who talks of selling White Face? I would just like to see you sellin' her. Nary a hoof of 'em's goin' to be sold; cattle don't bring nothin' now a days; no, no, we'll keep our'n till the market's riz." 
               The time for selling White Face never came. That individual of the bovine species, strayed into the mountains, and was heard of no more. David tried various means to obtain a Bible. Once he was almost certain that he was about to possess the long coveted treasure, having sent an uncommonly large assortment of peltry to Greysonville; but alas, the man with whom he sent them, forgot what the commission was, and brought him, Buchan's Family Physician, instead. David received the long expected package with feelings of intense excitement; and when he discovered the mistake, burst into tears. The man laughed at him, saying that one book was as good as another. Whereupon David lost his temper, threw off his coat and gave the fellow a sound thrashing; for which rash act he repented sorely ever afterward, and was ashamed to look the man in the face. 
               But there were some books, even on the head waters of Fall River; and when David's young acquaintances had discovered his intense desire for that particular article, they were ready to gratify it to the utmost of their ability; for David was the universal favorite and pet of the settlement. The consequence was, that he had read every book within ten miles of his father's cabin; there were in all, only ten volumes, and those quite diversified in character; Baxter's Saint's Rest, Robertson's History of America; two volumes of Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History; Goldsmith's Rome; one volume of Rollin; Brooks' Gazetteer; one volume of Clarendon's History of England; three volumes of the Spectator; a stray number of Johnson's Lives of the British Poets, embracing Shakespeare, Dryden, and Ben Johnson. The original Robinson Crusoe in two parts, a very wordy book indeed; a volume of sermons by Massilon; another, by Bourdaloue. It was a little singular, and I am inclined to think it a striking providence, that there was not a really bad book among them, and only one that might be called questionable; but these books were David's study for four years; in that time he had read them all many times over. But his desire to possess a Bible never decreased; though he almost despaired of ever obtaining one. Why was this? why was not the gospel preached to these poor? Was it because the good people of the cities, and wealthy towels, were so entirely engrossed in the grad work of sending the gospel to the heathen, that they had no time to attend to the destitute portions of their own great state? I know not; but years passed on, and our friend David had entered on his seventeenth summer, when an event occurred that changed the whole tenor of his life. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               A New Character is Introduced. 
               IN the head waters of Fall River, the late spring had set in. David and his father were busy one day in clearing a piece of ground for their early crop of potatoes; it was a small bit of land, for there was but little in the region, that would bear cultivation. At noon they went home to dinner. While Mrs. Woodburn was bustling round preparing that meal, she happened to cast her eyes down the road, and seeing something unusual, she uttered an exclamation of surprise, which brought the old man and Davie, both to the door. "What's the matter, now, wife?" inquired Mr. Woodburn. 
               "Why, as sure as I'm alive, there's a man comin' up the road on horseback." 
               "Yes, sure enough there is; I reckon it's a drovier." "No, father," said Davie, "I don't think it's a cattle dealer." Meantime the stranger was already toiling up the mountain. path. He was well dressed; had a blue Mackinaw blanket, and a heavy overcoat 
                     straped
                     strapped
                   on behind the saddle; and an enormous pair of saddle bags that seemed ready to burst, so full were they crammed; what those saddle bags contained, our friends were at a loss to conjecture. On rare occasions a cattle dealer would stray into this out-of-the-way locality; but this was no cattle dealer. He did not look like that particular class of mankind at all. His horse, though strong and in fine order, seemed terribly jaded; the rider, too, looked tired and worn. 
               But their curiosity was soon at an end, for the stranger rode up opposite the door, dismounted, tied his horse to a sapling, and taking up the ponderous saddle bags, walked straight into the cabin. His greeting was, "Well, friends, I have come a long way, over these rough roads, to try and do you and your neighbors some good; but first, can I get some corn for my horse, and a little dinner for myself." 
               "Why, yes, stranger, I reckon you can get both. Here, Davie, you go and give the gentleman's horse some corn, and wife, set another plate on the table, and bring some more of your pone. To be sure, stranger, you're welcome to share what we have; its not much, nor very enticin' but to a hungry man-" 
               "No apologies, my good friend, I am accustomed tomed to all sorts of fare, and will be thankful for some of your bacon and potatoes." 
               "Well, set by, then; but, stranger, may I be so bold as to ask what you've got in them saddle bags? they seem mighty heavy." 
               "They are heavy," replied the stranger, smiling, "and my poor horse knows that, better than any one else. Those saddle-bags, my friend, contain fodder for souls." At this disclosure, the old man looked exceedingly puzzled. But Davie having by this time returned, they all sat down to dinner, and Mr. Woodburn being in haste to show his hospitality, requested the stranger, "to put to and help himself." The stranger, however, did not seem in any haste to do so; but looking round with a serious face, said, "With your permission, my friends, I will ask a blessing over this food of' which we are about to partake. You know it; is very sinful to accept the gifts, and forget the giver." Upon saying this, he reverently stood up, and asked a blessing; while the family sat still, and looked at him with wondering eyes. When the meal was over, the stranger informed them, that his name was Harvey Guy; that he was an agent of the American Tract Society, and that his saddle bags contained religious reading, in the shape of books and tracts; that he had Bibles also, with which he was charged to supply every family, whom he might find destitute of the Word of Life. 
               Upon this announcement, Mrs. Woodburn, who was a timid woman, and had hitherto remained silent in the stranger's presence, spoke; "Oh, sir, can you give us a Bible, a whole Bible?" and having thus broken the ice, she found words to utter all that was in her heart; she poured forth the history of that poor, mutilated Bible, that had been her consolation, and Davie's joy for so many years. How her mother had willed that it should be divided; how her sister, Pochahontas, had got the best part; how Davie had copied it on his slate, till he knew it all by heart; how she had covered it with deer-skin; and finally how it had been torn by the baby who died soon after; and then she ended by wiping her eyes on her apron, saying, as usual, "Poor little Johnny." 
               I think the Colporteur, good man that he was, was crying too, for he took out a red bandanna pocket-hankerchief, and wiped his eyes frequently during the recital. Then he went vigorously to work, unpacked his ponderous saddle-bags, and from among piles of pretty new books, with bright colors of every hue, he selected a beautiful Bible, in fair, large type, and handed it to Mrs. Woodburn, saying, "Here, my good woman, is a new Bible for you; and if I am not mistaken, you will make a wise use of it, and I pray God to bless the reading of it to the salvation of your soul." She took the book, weeping still, but it was for joy. She tried hard to say something in acknowledgment, but broke down, and at last after two or three efforts, she managed to articulate, "Thank God for this, and you too, my dear sir." 
               "Your pleasure in receiving, is not greater than mine is in giving," replied Mr. Guy. "It is the gift of the Bible Society, not mine; I am only the bearer." 
               David, who had all this time been looking in amazement at such a wealth of books, was now invited forward, to examine and select for himself. He approached timidly, and looked at one and another, all undecided. The Colporteur, however, kindly relieved his embarrassment by taking up Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, saying, 'here is a book you will like, and I will make you a present of it, because I feel very much interested in you, my young friend; and here is Baxter's Call, in paper covers; will you read them both, carefully and prayerfully?" This David readily promised to do. 
               By this time, the old man began to grow fidgetty; he ran back and forth from the table to the door, till finally, he said, "Davie, come, let's be off to work." Mr. Guy then said, "will you wait a moment longer, friend. It is my custom always to read a chapter, and pray with every family, as I go along." 
               "Well, I reckon as how I can wait awhile, stranger, if you hurry up." 
               Mr. Guy then read the third chapter of John's Gospel, commenting briefly, as he read, in a plain, simple manner. He then prayed fervently for this family; for the parents, that they might speedily be brought from darkness into light; for the son, that he might also, ere long, become the subject of renewing grace, be brought into the fold of the great Shepherd, and become a useful and efficient laborer in the vineyard of the Master, and a light in that region of moral darkness. After this, he took his leave, and went on his visit to other cabins, as destitute as this one. But did the good man dream of the influences set in motion by this visit to the mountain cabin? perhaps he did, for he was a man of prayer, and his faith was strong. What an event was that visit in the life of David Woodburn. Hitherto he had only studied the great book of nature. There are persons who are religious, not from habit or education, but as it were by instinct. Such was David. To him, God was in everything; His voice was heard in the thunder; His smile seen in the sunshine; each flower that blossomed on the mountain, every bird and insect that fluttered on the wing, were subjects of delightful study to him, because they were the work of the divine hand. 
                
               His limited knowledge had only taught him, that God was very great, and very good. He was now to learn from the pages of the sacred volume, of that wonderful love, that led the Son of God to come into this world, and to die for sinners. David had for years been fully conscious that he was a sinner, and often he trembled at the thought of meeting such a holy God, as he read of, in the old, torn Bible with which he was so familiar, But now, when he took up the New Testament, every want of his soul was met and filled. When tired, or vexed by his father's querulous ways, he flew to it for consolation, and he had only one wish, and that was, to go and tell all others of that Saviour whom he had found to be so precious. 
               He always attributed his conversion to the reading of Baxter. But I think David was a Christian from early childhood; and seemed to have been taught of the Spirit, long before he had any definite idea of the plan of salvation through a crucified Redeemer. A new tie seemed now to have sprung up between David and his mother. They never grew tired of dwelling on the great truths, so lately brought before their minds. Their evenings, too, were very precious. David would read, while his mother sat knitting, and the old man nodded in the corner. Bunyan's wonderful dream, was a source of ever new delight. Though he only saw darkly into the spiritual meaning of the book, he read it and re-read it. 
               But his great desire was to do something for Jesus; something that would improve and elevate the benighted people around him. Always energetic and industrious, his life of daily toil now became perfectly distasteful to him. He felt that he had work of a different kind to do; but how to begin, or where, was a question that he could not answer to his own satisfaction. At length the way was gradually opened before him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               A Revival of Letters. 
               MR. Guy had visited all the families within a circuit of eight miles, perhaps. He had left a tract or book, and always a Bible, at every house where there was none; and then he went his way to visit other districts, more properly within his own field of labor. But he had sown much good seed, and it soon began to, spring up, and to bear fruit. His visits, exhortations and prayers, had awakened much interest, and occasioned casioned no little talk, among a people so illiterate. There were families where not one member could read; there were others again, and this was often the case, where the parents alone could read. There was then something in the very fact of a book being in a house where two or more could read; and that was a silent, though standing reproof. 
               However this may be, a sudden desire sprang up among the young people, to learn to read in earnest. This was stimulated by the advent of some families from an adjoining county; who, coming from a district where the education of the poor was not entirely neglected, possessed that accomplishment, which rather placed them above their more illiterate neighbors. Finally, after much talk something was done. 
               A cabin was secured for a school in a central location, and David was unanimously chosen as teacher; the text books were those which had been circulated by the Colporteur, and the school went on swimmingly, for all were anxious to learn. 
               Mr. Guy had begged them, every where he went, not to go out hunting on Sunday, but to meet together on that day and get some one to read the books and tracts he had left, and above all to read the Bible. This good advice was followed out in many cases; and in this work, David found a far more congenial employment, than in splitting rails, felling trees, or any of the multifarious labors that had hitherto occupied his time. He was employed every evening in reading to the people who collected in each other's houses in rotation. In some instances they walked five miles to these meetings, and none had less than a mile to go. 
               Mr. Guy had also insisted on the duty of family prayer; and as David had little hope that his father would ever perform that duty, he undertook it himself; and greatly to the mother's delight, he read the Scriptures, and prayed in the family, night and morning. Gathering courage from this, he proposed that they should open and close those nightly meetings by prayer and singing. My friend had a fine voice, and sang remarkably well, for one who was a stranger to music as a science; this proved a highly attractive feature in the meetings, and met with great favor. Thus he was the leader of a prayer meeting before he was himself aware of the fact. 
               When Mr. Guy heard of this state of things, he wrote to Rev. Mr. Renwick, at Greysonville, begging him to visit, and preach to the people there, which he did. The church, in which he held the meetings, was a grove of beech trees, carpeted with grass and moss. 
                
               But this did not prevent the people from flocking to hear him. There was quite an awakening; many professed conversion, and were baptized, among whom, were David Woodburn, and both his parents. When Mr. Renwick was leaving, they begged him with tears, to send them a minister, who might break to them the bread of life. He promised to do what he could, but the society to which he belonged was weak, and they already had more missionaries in the field than they could support. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               David Undertakes a Journey. 
               DAVID, meanwhile, had turned his whole attention, with pitying earnestness, to the people higher up on the head waters of Fall River. He had been there on hunting excursions, frequently, and knew them to be more destitute, and in greater darkness, than those in his own neighborhood. He had consulted Mr. Renwick, on the practicability of getting a stock of books and tracts, and of going there as a Colporteur; but that gentleman man gave him no encouragement; he thought him too young and inexperienced, and above all too ignorant, though he did not tell him so. However, he gave him the name and address of the Superintendent of Colportage in that state, saying that he might write to him if he saw proper. 
               My poor friend did not know how to write at this time. He could only print, as his father had said on that memorable evening when the slate was produced. But nothing daunted, he concluded he would try what he could do in that line, and accordingly he wrote to the Superintendent, and as I have his letter by me, I shall give it verbatim. But let no one imagine that this is done in a spirit of ridicule, or from a desire to excite a smile at David's expense. Far be it from me to make light of that indomitable will that spurned obstacles apparently unsurmountable; or that honest simplicity
                   
                   
                     MR. LIVELY READS THE MISSIVE OF DAVID. Page 57 
                  
                   city of purpose that never swerved from the path of duty, beset as it was with difficulties. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              HEAD WATERS OF FALL RIVER.
                            
                           dear sir this is to inform you that i am very anxious to work for the Lord i wish this so much that i am willing to go any where but if you are satisfied i would prefer to labor among the people higher up the river where there is great need direct to d woodburn giles store 
                           
                              pocawassa county 
                              state of -
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Mr. Lively, the Superintendent, received this missive in due time by mail, but he paid no attention to it; on the contrary, he threw it, with the waste paper, on his office floor. Mrs. Lively was a woman of neat habits; so, after her husband had taken himself out of the apartment, she set herself to work to clear away the rubbish; and being withal of an inquiring mind, examined the papers. In the course of her inspection, this letter of my friend's came in turn under her eye, and thinking it a curiosity in its way, being penned in very fair Roman characters, she laid it aside, and that is how it came into my possession. I think it an unusual production, when we consider that it was written by a boy of seventeen, who had probably never in his life before, seen a sheet of writing-paper, a pen or a written letter. There is no bad spelling, and the great defect is the lack of capitals and punctuation. David walked ten miles to the post-office, where he wrote and mailed this letter; the postmaster giving him such directions in its management as was necessary. 
               Mr. Lively, being a very "live man," which means, I believe, a man that is wide awake, in his multiplied concerns, thought no more of his unknown correspondent. But not so poor David; as soon as le might reasonably expect a reply, he walked back to the post-office but there was no letter for him; and requesting the post master to forward any letter that might come to his address, to Squire Grey's, who was a person of note in the settlement, he walked home. 
               But no letter ever came. David had so set his heart on this undertaking, that the disappointment nearly made him sick. Poor boy, he had no one to tell him to wait patiently; that when the Lord of the vineyard had any thing for him to do, the way would be opened, and the path be made clear before him. David however, was not one of those young converts, who, when he has had the love of God shed abroad in his soul, and has felt its influence constraining him to go and tell others of the precious boon, sits down in listless inactivity waiting and looking for a clearer light. He knew that while he dallied, sinners were perishing. He prayed over this matter, often, and fervently, and at length under a strong impulse that he would be successful, he determined to go and see the superintendent in person. 
               When he made this resolution known to his mother, she held up her hands in amazement. "Why, Davie dear," said she, "don't you ever think of such a thing. It's an awful long way, and the waters is high; and where'll you ever get a beast to ride? or a addle, or a bridle? And where's the money to come from?" 
               "Why, as to that, mother, Squire Grey has offered to lend me a horse, saddle and bridle; I have saved a dollar and a quarter, you know; and if I take some corn in a bag, and some little things for myself, I reckon I can make out to get along. And as to the high waters, mother, there's not a stream between this and Briarton, that hasn't a ferry, or some way to cross; there's a bridge over the Blue Grass, and one over the Big Briarton. I have made up my mind to go, mother, and please don't say anything against it; if I can only get some of those good books and tracts to take with me, up to Randal county, I can go among the people so much easier. Just look how much good Mr. Guy did here, with his books and tracts; and I might have gone round among the people, praying and talking for a year, and they wouldn't have paid any attention to it, after he was gone; but he left little preachers behind him in every house. And Squire Grey, says, he's determined to have some kind of a church put up; they all think a log building will do very well for a while; and they are going at it this fall; and now we have a Sunday school; just look, all this came of a visit of three weeks." 
                
               "Yes, God bless him; Oh, Davie, what would ever we have done, if we hadn't got that Bible. I wouldn't part with it, not for all Pocawassa county. But, Davie, dear, you're not in earnest about goin' among them salvages up in Randal county, are you?" 
               "Yes, I am, mother; and if Mr. Lively will only let me have the tracts and Bibles, and a few little books, I think I can do a good work there; I am not afraid of the people." 
               "Dear me, Davie, that Mr. Lively must be very rich, to be able to give away so many books; why, I reckon as they cost oceans of money." 
               "It is not him that gives them; Mr. Guy says, it is the Tract and Bible Societies." 
               "Oh, I reckon its them rich folks down in Wrightsmond; I heard a drovier say, that they live in great stone houses, and have the very silver on their tables, to eat and drink out of; and great churches, all kivered on the floors with elegant cloth; and the very windows painted green and yellow, and all colors. Well, well, if they have such a power of money, why didn't they send the gospel up here long ago. People here has souls to be saved, if they are poor. The Lord said, 'preach the gospel to all people.'" 
               "Yes, mother, but somehow, that don't seem to be done, for there is a great many that never heard of the gospel. But those books don't come from Wrightsmond; they are made at a place called New York; I think it's a great way off." 
               "New York, it must be very far away. Davie dear, don't you think the people there are very good? I reckon you are mistaken; it must be New Jerusalem; you know it was four square, and golden streets." 
               David, seeing that his mother was getting into deep waters, and not perceiving any way. of helping her out, made no attempt to combat her theory on the location of the New Jerusalem. But I am of the opinion that if the good woman had been permitted to test it by personal observation, her opinion would have undergone a natural change, not only in a physical point of view, but with regard to its moral aspect. So David only requested his mother to have things in order for an early start on the following morning, and then went down to Squire Grey's to make the necessary arrangements about the horse. 
               His mother, seeing he was determined to go, set to work, without delay, to prepare his wardrobe for the long journey. David had no "best suit;" his only one, was now two years old, and in that time he had quite outgrown it. I am sorry to say, that his personal appearance was not as respectable as it would have been, had less of his woolen hose been visible, and more of his wrists been covered. His mother managed to extend the sleeves of his coat, but she utterly failed in the matter of the pants; her ingenuity could devise no means to make those meet the prevailing style. Fortunately, he had a heavy gray overcoat, a garment much needed at that season of the year. 
               The affair of the horse was settled without any difficulty; indeed, Squire Grey would have found it hard to have refused David any favor he might ask. So, being equipped, he bade an affectionate adieu to his parents, and set off for Briarton. 
               It was a cold, bleak, cloudy morning, late in November. His hopes were not high as to the ultimate success of his undertaking; his horse was none of the best, and it was nearly noon when he reached Giles' store, which was ten miles from home. This had been the uttermost limit of David's peregrinations, except, when on his hunting excursions, which had always led him in a direction opposite to civilized life; but now that he was approaching that charmed boundary, he felt more discouraged, and even undecided; he thought he had made up his mind before leaving home, to brave every thing he might meet on his journey; but now, obstacles rose up like great mountains in his path; mountains, in the shape of strange faces, the faces of people of whose manners and habits of life, he was entirely ignorant. Once, he gave way under these gloomy thoughts, and turning his horse's head, rode back towards home a mile or more; then suddenly remembering the text, Luke 9:62, "No man having put his hand to the plough and turning back is fit for the Kingdom of God," he hastily turned and continued his journey. 
               He rode on briskly for an hour or more, and then seeing a beautiful spring that flowed from under a rock by the roadside, he concluded to stop here and dine. 
               His horse had shown inclinations in that direction for some time, by turning aside in a contumacious sort of way, to crop the scanty herbage that grew along the side of the road. So David, after letting him drink at the spring, took the bag of corn and hung it by a string over the head of the animal, who thus dined cavalry fashion. 
               Having thus seen to his horse, David proceeded to examine the pockets of his overcoat. He found there, some cakes made of wheaten flour. This was a luxury he had but seldom enjoyed in his life, and which his good mother had prepared while he slept the night before. He knew she had traded a little yarn for flour, and now, she had taken it to make cakes for him. 
                
               Oh, these mothers! how seldom do children realize all the sacrifices of comfort they make for them. But David loved his mother so tenderly, that it is to be hoped that he fully appreciated her self-abnegation. There were also some nice slices of ham, some corn bread, and an egg of maple sugar. Perhaps my young readers do not know what a sugar egg is, so I will tell them. 
               A small hole is made in the end of an egg, the contents emptied out, and the sugar while boiling hot is poured in; when it grows cold, the shell is removed, and in this way you will get a sugar egg. 
               Upon the whole, David made a very good dinner, and rose up much refreshed to pursue his journey. 
               He met with nothing of importance during the remainder of the day. It was a solitary mountain road, and as night drew on, he looked in vain for a lodging place. At last it grew quite dark. 
               Slowly, he toiled on, weary and dispirited; all his fears and discouragements returned with the darkness that shrouded him and nature alike, and from which his meditations seemed to borrow a sombre hue. What was he, that he should thus push himself forward in the great arena; and intrude himself on the notice of those whose time and thoughts were all occupied in the great work of evangelizing the world, when he himself was so ignorant. But then he thought of the condition of the people among whom he wished to labor, and thus he soliloquized; "I am the very one to go on a mission to these poor, ignorant people; and why did God make known to me, and not to them, his such grace through Christ Jesus? surely, I ought not to shrink from any difficulties in the path before me. I will go on; perhaps my Heavenly Master may make use of even such a poor creature as myself to further His cause. He choose His disciples from among the poor; I believe they were all fishermen, except Matthew, and he was a tax collector. I wonder if the Jews hated tax collectors as much as we do, here in the mountains; if they did, Matthew had a hard time." 
               Thus musing, he came in sight of a cabin some distance off, and found that he had reached a plateau, and that he was on comparatively level ground. A light glimmered faintly in the little window, and, as he approached, several dogs set up a tremendous barking. David was just beginning to feel uncomfortable, when the cabin door was opened, and a man came out, who, calling off the dogs, shouted out, "Halloo, stranger, you're late." 
               "Yes, I am late, can you lodge me to night, friend?" 
                
               "Yes I can lodge you, but I have nothing for your horse." 
               "Oh, as to that, I can manage, I have some corn here in a bag." 
               David, having dismounted, the horse was put in a kind of shed, and the remainder of the corn was given him. They then went into the house, which contained but one apartment and here the whole family, consisting of the father, mother, and eight children ate, slept and lived. Three of the children were grown, the remaining five were small; and when David came in, they were all standing with their backs against the wall. He shook hands all round, beginning with the mother, and said he hoped they were well, to which none of them made any reply, but stood staring at him with open eyes. He then sat down by the fire on a three legged stool, while Timothy, or Tim Davis that was the host's name, plied him pretty freely with questions; he did not get much information, however, for David did not feel in a communicative mood. At last the host enquired where he was going; David replied that he was going to Briarton. "Well, I never," rejoined Mrs. Davis; "what a long way for such a young chap to be goin'." Which compliment was not a little distasteful to David. Meanwhile, the hostess bustled round, and soon had supper ready, when they all sat down to the table. They had tea, made of winter green, hot corn bread and stewed venison, which David thought a very good supper. When the meal was over, and the family had settled down into something like quiet, David inquired if they had a Bible; to which question, the old man said they had not, and the old woman declared they had. Whereupon, a smart dispute arose between the two; he asserting that they had no Bible, that the book she took for a Bible was nothing of the kind; and she as obstinately asserting that it was a Bible. The controversy at length rose so high, that David, who had been the innocent cause, began to feel uncomfortable. A bright thought just then struck him; and he proposed, as soon as a lull in the storm of words allowed him to be heard, that the book in question should be produced, and that would settle the matter. Upon this being said, they all set to work to find it. They hunted every where. At last one of the girls found it in the crown of an old hat that was stuffed into a broken pane in the window; and it turned out to be an odd volume of the Revised Code. Tim Davis held it up in triumph for his wife to see; but she was still unconvinced, declaring that Edmonds, the lawyer from Carlton, had borrowed it to swear witnesses on. Tim, then turning to David, apologised for his wife's ignorance, by saying that she could not read; "but," continued he, "I can read well." "And if you had a Bible," said David, "would you read it?" "Yes, indeed," said Tim, "I would." David had a small, Bible presented by Mr. Renwick; he loved it very much; but now his sympathy was so enlisted in behalf of this poor family, that he resolved to give it to Tim. Taking this Bible from his pocket, he opened it at the fifth chapter of Matthew, and read it. Then he proposed that they should pray; so he knelt down, the family all sitting. When he arose from his knees, he took up the Bible and went on to tell them that it was; who gave it, and why it was given, with a general outline of the fall of man and of the way of redemption through Jesus Christ. 
               He also said a great deal more that was appropriate to the moral status of his auditors. As soon as David came to a pause, Tim said, "stranger, I'd like to buy that ere book; look a here, I'll give you a silver dollar for it," at the same time showing a dollar; David said he did not wish to sell it, for he thought that possibly he might not soon be able to obtain another. "But," said he, "I will give it to you, if you will promise to read a chapter in the New Testament every day till you read it through, and then begin the Old Testament, and read it in the same way." Tim readily promised to do this; but did not seem satisfied to take it as a gift, urging as a reason, that he was not so poor as he seemed. David, however, could not think of bartering his precious Bible for money; it looked to him like sacrilege. 
               That night, David slept before the fire with his saddle for a pillow. Next morning, Tim sent one of his boys off by daylight for some corn, for the horse, but David would not wait till he returned, and set off before it was clear day. He offered to pay for his lodging, but Tim would take nothing. 
               It was still cloudy and cold. David rode nine miles before he found a place where he could have his horse fed, or get any breakfast; but he was in luck this time, for the good old lady where he stopped, took such a fancy to him, because she said he resembled a son of hers who was with General Scott's army in Mexico, that she gave him an excellent breakfast, and had his horse fed, charging nothing. So, taking leave of his kind hostess with many thanks for her hospitality, he rode on. 
               He dined indifferently that day on what remained in his pocket from yesterday, but his horse fared worse. Towards evening his road lay through a notch or gap in the mountain, but when he reached the other side and emerged from the thick forest of hemlock and yellow pine that covered the mountain side, a beautiful scene burst on his view. 
                
               A wide, fertile, valley lay stretched beneath him, dotted with farm-houses, villages and churches. The Briarton river flowed through it, now hidden from sight by heavy masses of evergreens, then glancing out, and meandering through broad meadows. Orchards, gardens, and splendid mansions, embosomed in groves of forest trees, were dimly visible in the distance; directly beneath him was a group of mills, one of them a woolen factory, large enough David thought to contain all the people in the world. The sun for a moment broke through the clouds, and threw his setting rays over all this scene, bringing every object into strong relief, so that our friend became quite bewildered with a prospect at once so novel and so beautiful, and he began to fancy that this was no other than the Delectable mountains, and that the valley beneath was, perhaps, the precincts of the Heavenly Canaan, which Christian and his companion in travel, were privileged to see on their journey to the Celestial City. But a dark cloud now obscured the sun's rays, and the illusion vanished. With the return of sober reason he was reminded to hasten on, as he had two miles of mountain road to travel yet, before he could reach the valley, and night was falling. 
               He arrived at an inn about dark. The landlord was a friendly sort of man, and treated his young guest with much courtesy; and David, in his frank, honest way, told him the simple story of where he was going and on what errand. The host appeared quite interested, commended his perseverance and courage, and advised him to push forward to the end; assured him that he knew Mr. Lively well, and that he was bound to succeed. 
               David saw many things here that he had never in his life seen before, and he thought this inn was a palace of splendor. In tile morning he offered to pay his bill, but the kind landlord refused to take anything, saying he always entertained tract-men for nothing. 
               David then set off; he had yet a whole day's journey before him; bolt his road lay through a beautiful and highly cultivated country. There had been a drizzling rain all the morning, and toward noon, snow began to fall in large flakes, which made travelling both difficult and uncomfortable; and now, that he was so near his journey's end, his former doubts and difficulties began to return. "What if Mr. Lively should not be at home; and what if he should refuse to give me work; and then what kind of folks are his family? I wonder if there are any girls there; if there are, I dare say they'll peep in at the door, and laugh at me; that's the way those girls did where I stayed last night. Heigh, ho, well I believe I don't look like other people; at least like the people that live about here." 
               Poor David, how he tormented himself. The tempter was very busy with him, as he rode along through the snow and sleet. Just then a gentleman overtook him; reining up his horse, as he came alongside, in order to keep pace with the slow motion of David's poor old nag, he said, pleasantly, "a bad day for travellers, friend." "Yes," said David; "its rather cold and wet;" and so they rode along together for a long distance chatting in a friendly way, as travellers sometimes will. David felt so lonely, that he was glad to have some one to speak to, and he told his companion enough of his history, to enlighten him considerably, as to his character and prospects. 
               Presently, they came to where the road forked, and the stranger said, "Here we part, but wait," and dismounting, he took out a piece of paper, and laying it on his saddle, wrote something on it with a pencil; he then handed this to David, saying, About two miles from here you will come to the Acasia Springs; hand this to the Landlord of the hotel for me, if you please;" David, replied, "certainly, sir, I will do any thing to oblige you." The gentleman smiled, raised his hand gracefully half way to his cap in adieu, and then rode off. 
               In due time David arrived at the hotel spoken of by the gentleman; much wondering all the way, what could be in that note, which he imagined must be of immense importance to somebody. 
               On arriving, he inquired for the landlord; when that personage appeared, David handed him the note; he read it and saying, "Certainly, certainly," he walked to the door and rung a bell; presently a servant appeared, and the landlord said, "Here, Tom, take this young man's horse to the stable, rub him down well and give him a good feed of oats." Then turning to David, he said, "Come this way, sir," and led the way into the bar room, where an enormous coal fire was burning in the grate. He then invited him to be seated and dry his clothes, while dinner was being prepared. "But, sir," rejoined David, "I, I think I will just go on to Briton without any dinner; I had my breakfast." "Oh, never mind that, you must have some dinner too." He was bustling out, when David, now in despair, sprang to his feet, ran after him and seizing him by the coattail fairly bawled out, "But, sir, I tell you I have no money to pay for it." Then taking out a dollar, two dimes, and a five cent piece, he showed them to his lost, saying, "There, sir, that's all the money I have in the world, and I am sixty miles from home." "Well, well, said the landlord, "All right, still you will get your dinner." But David still held on; "I tell you, it wont cost you anything, so let me go." David lost in astonishment, put his money back into his pocket and sat down by the fire. 
               Presently a servant appeared with a tray loaded with delicacies. Hot coffee, fried chicken, pan-cakes, broiled venison and sweet potatoes; to say nothing of the desert, which was lemon pudding, preserved pine apple, and sponge cake. 
               That was a dinner for a hungry boy; and David partook of it with a boy's appetite; though how it happened that there was nothing to pay, he could not understand. 
               In the course of an hour, the horse was brought round, looking much the better for his entertainment. David thanked the host for his kindness, whereupon he laughed obstreperously, and begged him to call again when he travelled that way: which David promised to do. 
                
               His road was now a descent all the way to Briarton. It was slippery, and his horse was not very sure footed, so that he was obliged to travel slowly and with much care. The snow fell faster, the cold increased, and with all these discomforts, his doubts and fears of the morning returned with redoubled force; all his misgivings came crowding thick and fast upon him. What should he do, if he failed in getting employment; how would he ever get home with so little money? David's faith was very, small at that time; he had forgotten already, that this journey of sixty miles, had not yet cost him a dime; and surely after this, he had no reason to mistrust Providence. 
               In the midst of these troubled thoughts, he arrived at Briarton. Passing through the outskirts, he rode along the main street some distance, when, meeting a man, he inquired where Mr. Lively lived? The man pointed across a vacant lot or common, to a house that stood alone, surrounded by trees. 
               David rode up to the door, dismounted ascended the steps, and without waiting for his courage to ooze out at his finger ends, gave vigorous rap at the door. 
               Mr. Lively, who was sitting at his parlor fire, enjoying his newspaper, rose, and passing into the hall, opened the door; there stood David covered with snow. Mr. Lively waited for him to speak. "Sir," said David, "are you Mr. Lively?" "Yes, that is my name." "Then sir, I wrote you a letter some months ago." "Yes, yes," said Mr. Lively; "but come in out of the snow." Then David walked into the hall, and Mr. Lively, shutting the door, passed into the parlor, saying, "Come to the fire." David then went to the parlor door; but there he stood still; he looked at the walls, then at the care, and then at the furniture, generally. At last he said, "Sir, I cannot come in there." 
                
               Mr. Lively was accustomed to deal with pretty much all classes, and now began to understand the poor boy's dilemma. He spoke kindly to him saying, "take off your overcoat, and come to the fire; you must be very old riding in the snow." David now drew off his coat, and stepping to the parlor door, looked deprecatingly at the carpet; at length he made a desperate effort, setting his feet with great care and precision, on the dark ground, and carefully avoiding the bright flowers he managed to reach the fire, and stood upon the rug. As soon as he was seated, which the reader will perceive was a work of time, Mr. Lively asked him his name. 
               "My name is David Woodburn; I wrote to you some time ago, requesting work as a Colporter." Mr. Lively could not recal the name at all, and, in fact, thought it was all a mistake. But he was a kind hearted man, and really felt sorry for the poor stranger boy, who looked so forlorn, and was so oddly equipped; so he looked at the fire awhile as if he was studying that element; then he turned to David, saying, "Mr. Woodburn, you will stay with us to night, meantime we will talk this matter over." This was the first time David had ever been addressed as Mr. Woodburn; and he looked at Mr. Lively much as if he would say, "Sir, if there is any mistake, you are the one that has made it." Mr. Lively then continued, "You have a horse, I see, I will have him attended;" he then went out and gave orders accordingly. 
               The bell now rang for tea; Mr. Lively stepped to the dining room, and standing at the head of the table, waited till his family should assemble. Presently two boys appeared, then a laughing, curly headed little girl, then two romping misses of sixteen or thereabouts, followed by two elderly ladies; and one considerably younger, though still of mature years. 
               When they had all taken their places, Mr. Lively threw a glance around generally; and then fixing his rather stern eyes on the two young ladies, said, in very emphatic tones, "I am about to bring a young stranger in to supper, and I hope I shall see perfect gravity on every face at the table." Upon this, the little witch, with the curly head, thought herself called upon to speak; "Oh pa, has he got a long nose? If he has, I'm sure I shall laugh. I always do, when I see anybody with a long nose;" which remark upset the gravity of the whole party; but Mr. Lively, looking very stern, said, "Remember, Nettie, you are not called upon to speak, neither to laugh at anybody's nose." He then went back to the parlor and brought David in, introducing him generally, as young Mr. Woodburn, from Pocawassa county, whereupon Mrs. Lively shook hands in a friendly way. 
               During the meal, David seemed to be making his own comments, though he spoke but little; he was evidently studying the part he was called on to act in his new position. The cups and saucers were easily gotten over; but he was troubled with the forks, as this was almost his first experience with that implement, considered so indispensible in civilized society. 
               The youngsters cast furtive glances at him occasionally, but did not venture on a good round stare; for a stern look from the paternal end of the table kept them under a wholesome restraint. Meantime, Mrs. Lively kept up a steady stream of talk to Davy, so that he had scarcely time to think of his rather awkward position, which he seemed painfully conscious of, whenever there was a lull in the conversation. She asked him no questions that she could avoid, but chattered away, as women will, whenever their tongues get loose. To tell the truth, it was very kind in Mrs. Lively, who was a good sort of person in her way. 
               After tea, they had prayers, and then Miss Bessie Lively, in order to show her father how properly she could behave to strangers, invited David into the parlor. The fact was, that his curiosity had been aroused almost to desperation, by the sight of a piano that had been left standing open in that apartment all the time he was there. As soon as he returned, he walked straight up to it, and turning to Miss Flournoy, said, "Miss, may I ask you what this is?" Miss Flournoy replied, very gravely, "That is a piano, Mr. Woodburn; are you fond of music?" David said, "Yes, I am fond of singing." Miss Flournoy then selected one of the prettiest songs, and sitting down to the instrument, began the prelude; her swift fingers had not accomplished 
                   
                     "THAT IS A PIANO." Page 90. 
                  
                  
                   complished one bar, when David sprang up, advanced to the middle of the room, and there stood like one entranced. 
               When the piece was finished, and Miss Flournoy turned round, poor David seemed to awake to the consciousness of the figure he made. 
               Little curly head was tittering audibly, and the boys were making some outlandish grimaces, that belong to boydom generally; but Mrs. Lively said, "Come, take your seat young friend," and then she set the girls to playing duets, and then she sent curly head, and the boys into the next room telling them that when they had learned to behave properly, they might stay in the parlor. 
               After several pieces had been gone over, much to David's delight, Miss Bessie asked him if he sang, he answered, "Yes, I sing hymns a great deal; Mrs. Lively then proposed that they should sing hymns, and then Mr. Woodburn could join them. The book used in family worship was brought, and they had quite a pleasant time singing those sweet hymns; I have said before, that David had a fine voice, though of course, totally without cultivation; but in a very short time, he was able to accompany the piano with wonderful precision. 
               Upon the whole he spent a very pleasant evening; and after he had retired to his chamber, the ladies of the family came to the unanimous conclusion, that nature had been quite lavish in her gifts to this mountain rustic. 
               But to David, this was a sleepless night; a new world had been opened. Though always conscious of his defective education, he had never felt it so painfully before In vain he prayed for light on all this darkness, but no light came. 
               He sat down by the fire, at last, and commenced menced a regular course of self-examination; he asked himself, "why am I so anxious to work for my Saviour? Is it because I love Him and wish to advance His cause, or is it that this will be a stepping stone to enable me to rise in the world, and be something among my fellow creatures?" Like all persons who are born with mental capacity far above, the ordinary level, he knew what he was capable of making, could he only have opportunities of improvement; but the tempter had whispered that this was pride and ambition, and David shrank from those, as great wickedness in the sight of God. 
               Poor boy; if he then could have had some discreet, intelligent friend to whom he might have unbosomed himself, who could have counselled and aided him in his efforts to rise; but he had none, and for years he struggled on alone, at least as far as earthly aid was concerned. 
                
               At last the fire died out: his candle was flickering in the socket, and David was fain to lie down; but he did not sleep. 
               In the morning he arose before the family was stirring, and tried his hand on the wonderful piano that had so entranced him the night before. He tried the scale and discovering that he understood the different sounds, as he expressed it, improvised a tune or two; then, growing bolder, he attempted Old Hundred, darted off into Arlington, and so continued, varying the practice by an attempt of Hail Columbia and Days of Absence, till the whole household were fully roused. I do not wish to be understood that David succeeded in playing these tunes accurately or fluently, but merely how richly nature had endowed one of her children though reared in such deep obscurity. 
               For a while, he was quite lost in rapture at the development of a talent that he never dreamed of possessing; then the thought of how match depended on the decision that was to be made this morning, damped his ardor, and he went to the fire and sat down in a brown study. The family, who had been quite mystified as to the origin of the early serenade in 'the parlor, now assembled to breakfast and prayers. It was noticed by all with what remarkable quickness David had adapted himself to the new scenes into which he was thrown. And there was a frank, manly independence about him that won them amazingly, so that Mr. Lively found it quite unnecessary to reiterate his caution of the previous evening. 
               After breakfast and prayers, Mr. Lively invited David into his office, and a long conversation ensued. David related his simple history, and then spoke of his desire to obtain work as a Colporteur. Mr. Lively said in reply, that he had looked over this matter prayerfully; that he would be glad to employ him, if he could do so conscientiously; but that he considered him too young; that his want of experience and suitable education, were obstacles in the way, which could not at present be surmounted, as far as he could then see; and then wound up this long speech by advising him to go home, and wait till he was older and better fitted for the work. 
               To all this David made no reply; Mr. Lively waited a few moments, but still there was no answer. He now looked around at him in some surprise; he had not looked at David while speaking, because he knew he was saying some very mortifying things to the young man. But now when Mr. Lively looked in his face, he saw great tears rolling down his cheeks. 
               "Why, my dear young friend," said he, "I am sorry to have hurt your feelings; I did not intend it; but I thought it necessary to tell you the truth." After several efforts to control himself, David faltered out, "You have not hurt my feelings, sir; what you say is true. I know I am a poor, ignorant boy, but I thought I might do something among those people; Oh, sir, they are so ignorant of God and His laws, and I do so wish to be doing something for my Saviour, who has done so much for me." And here he broke down again. 
               Mr. Lively was not prepared for this, he was a tender hearted man, as has been before observed. He sat looking at the fire for a long time; and David wiped his eyes and looked at the fire also. At last, he said, "Mr. Lively, I thank you very much for your good advice, and I shall try to follow it." Then rising, he said, "I think I shall start home now." 
               Mr. Lively sprang to his feet, saying, "no you wont, though; stay here till I return." 
               The truth was, that Mr. Lively had got an idea into his head, at last. He hastily drew on his overcoat, took his hat and cane, and set off on the street at a very brisk walk. He crossed the common and entered a very fine mansion that stood nearly opposite his own house. Here he was ushered into an elegantly furnished apartment, where sat an old gentleman, very corpulent, and with his gouty foot propped up on cushions. Mr. Courtney received Mr. Lively with the utmost cordiality, but the latter scarcely waiting to be seated, entered at once upon David history, telling all he knew about him, then his desire to enter into the field as a Colporteur, and ended with the recent scene at his own fireside. 
               By the time he was through with his recital, the tears were streaming down Mr. Courtney's cheeks, likewise. But he wiped his eyes, and said, "Well, and what do you propose to do, brother Lively?" 
                
               "Why, I know what I should do if I were a rich man; I would set this boy to work, and pay his salary and expenses out of my own pocket; but this I cannot do, and the Committee at New York are very careful what sort of men they employ, and besides, the boy cannot write; how would he ever make reports? and he is totally uneducated, but he certainly is a very remarkable youth, and, if I mistake not, will rise in the world, and make a very useful man. But how to get him started I cannot just now see; besides his dress is anything but respectable. You know, Mr. Courtney, our men are all well dressed, and respectable looking." 
               "You ask me what I propose to do; well, I propose to go to some four or five of our wealthy, benevolent men, just as I have come to you, and see if I can raise, say, sixty dollars, that will furnish an outfit, and pay his salary for three months; I will supply him with books and tracts at my own expense, three months will show what kind of stuff he is made of; meantime, he will send his reports to me, and the Committee need never know anything about it." 
               "A very good plan, but how can he make reports? you said just now he could not write." 
               "Oh," said Mr. Lively, laughing, "true, true, I forgot that, but my wife says, he can print." While saying this, Mr. Lively had his hand on the door knob, and now commenced bowing himself out, when Mr. Courtney bawled after him, "stop, stop, I want to invest something on this stock." He then opened his pocket book, and taking out a fifty dollar bill, handed it to Mr. Lively, saying, "you did not ask me for anything and don't deserve it." 
               "Neither will I ask any one else, Mr. Courtney, but I thank you very much for this donation tion, it almost meets the case without anything more." 
               "No, the boy must have clothes, go ahead, you'll soon raise the where-with-all." 
               Mr. Lively now bent his steps to a dry goods store farther up the street. When he entered, a little wiry man, with very black, twinkling eyes, left a high desk where he was writing, stuck his pen behind his ear, and came forward with, "Well, brother Lively, what's in the wind this morning?" Mr. Lively saw that there was no chance here for a long story, so he made a short one, but before the recital was half through, Mr. Warwick handed him a ten, saying, "Here, I would like to hear that story some time, but not now, I am too busy;" he then resumed his pen and his ledger without ceremony. 
               The next person visited, was a lawyer, who was not only very rich, but very generous, and as he had plenty of time on his hands, Mr. Lively related the whole story. When he had finished, Mr. Gordon gave him twenty dollars, and the next gentleman he called on, gave him ten. This made ninety dollars collected in two hours, and Mr. Lively had not solicited a single dime. 
               His next visit was to a large ready made clothing establishment. He told the proprietor, Mr. Melton, that he would send a youth there to be fitted with a suit, and he hoped, he would do his best, and he would be answerable,-which meant that he would pay for it; Mr. Melton assured him that he would, after which, Mr. Lively returned home. 
               He found David just where he left him, sitting by the fire. He had come to the conclusion that he was a presumptuous, vain fellow to run in this way without being sent; that God never intended him for anything but what he was; that if he had been fit to work in the Master's vineyard, he would have got something to do, when he came so far to seek it; that he would go home and, fill his vocation, which seemed to be to comfort his mother, and submit to the control of his father. In the midst of these sombre meditations Mr. Lively returned. 
               He told David, that he would employ him as a Colporteur for the region lying on the head waters of Fall River. He also told him of the very generous contributions made that morning for his support. 
               He advanced twenty-five dollars on his salary, and advised him to go to a stationer's, which his son would point out, and there provide himself with a stock of paper, pens, ink, &c., and set about learning to write as quickly as possible. 
               He then sent his son with David to Mr. Melton, who supplied him with a plain, substantial suit of clothes, which so transformed him in his outward appearance, that when he returned to dinner, the family scarcely recognized him; indeed, it was as much as he could well do to recognize himself. 
               A pair of saddle-bags, similar to those of Mr. Guy's, were procured, and well filled with small books, tracts, and Bibles. And so with heart-felt gratitude, David bade farewell to his benefactor's family, and was shortly after on his way homewards. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               Showing How David Returned Home. 
               DAVID spent that night at the Acasia Springs, and at the same hotel whose landlord had been so profuse inn his hospitalities when he was there before; but when he called for his bill, on leaving next morning, he was charged the full amount for his lodgings, which puzzled him very much; so he concluded, and very wisely too, that after this he would keep away from such grand hotels, and stop at the cabins along the road. where he might do some good. 
                
               At noon he stopped at a farm-house and got his dinner and had his horse fed; the good woman would not take any money, but gratefully accepted a little book which David gave her; she then said, "You remind me so much of Mr. Guy, sir; that is just the way he used to do." Then David asked her if she knew Mr. Guy, and where was he now? She answered "she knew him well, and that she believed he was at Madisonville." 
               David then determined to take this town on, his homeward route, as he thought it could not be much out of his way; and having come to this conclusion he set off. 
               Nothing worthy of notice occurred during the afternoon, and he arrived at Madisonville about dark. As he passed along the main street, he inquired of one and another, if they knew any person of the name of Guy; at last, having rode nearly the whole length of the town, he met a boy driving a cow; he stopped and looking down, said, "My good boy, do you know Mr. Guy?" The lad put his finger on his nose in a knowing sort of a way, saying, "Do you see anything green?" David replied, "no, he did not see much, and that if there was anything green, the snow had covered it up." The boy now gave a low whistle, saying, at the same time, "Well, you're a green'un, any how;" then seeing David looking at him in perfect wonder, he shouted out, "I say greeny, does your mother know you're out?" to which David replied, "That he had left home four days ago, and his mother did not know exactly where he was," and then rode on. 
               He was now clear of the village, and in the open country, and the question now was, should he turn back and try to find Mr. Guy in the village, or should he push on; the probabilities were, that he was as likely to find Mr. Guy along the road as any where else; so he rode on, but stopped at the door of every house he passed to inquire if Mr. Guy was there. It was now getting quite late, and David began to think he should never find what he was looking for. Just then two women came out of a lane that struck the road at a sharp angle. "My friends," said David again, "do you know anything of a Mr. Guy, who is somewhere in this neighborhood?" "What Guy? Harvey Guy do you mean, the bookman?" "Yes, that is the one I mean," said David. 
               "Oh, well, you'll find him up then at Slater's on the hill; he stays there always when he's over here." 
               She pointed at the same time, to a large, brick house that stood on a hill some distance to the right; and David set off at a brisk pace. As he rode up, he saw that this was quite a fine establishment, having an extensive lawn in front, containing many forest trees; it was also highly ornamented, as he saw from the statuary that gleamed out among the shrubbery, in the light of the moon, which was just showing her pale face over the crest of a distant mountain. 
               A gravelled carriage way led to the mansion, the gate of which, was opened by an old negro, who said, "How do marster; will you ride up to de house?" To David's question, was Mr. Guy there? the negro answered, "Yes sar. Marse Harvey am dere, 'n old missus, 'n de young misses; dey all home, cep old marse, he gone, to Wicherly; spec he'll be back to-night, do; 'n young marse Charlie, he gone down dere to fight de Mexica's; 'n young Miss Betty, she take on so caze as how-" David here interrupted his wordy guide, by asking, "And how old are your young misses, uncle? David had a wholesome dread of young misses, ever since the day he encountered a bevy of that genus at the Gap hotel on his way down. 
                
               "How ole? why bress your soul, one ob dem, dats de oldest, she be married, 'n hab eber so many chilun. Dem oder ones, dey mebbee sixteen, mebbee eighteen, more or less; laws, marse, dis nig don't know, he forget." To David, this was by no means a comforting announcement; but by this time he had arrived at the door. Having dismounted, he rang the bell; the negro having taken his horse, was leading it off; David said, "Don't take my horse away, uncle, I may leave here in a few moments." Uncle Jake opened his eyes so wide that they gleamed white in the moonlight, saying, "I tell you what, marster, nobody eber does leab dis house wen it dark night, 'n so Uncle Jake will just put 'im in de stable." 
               A servant now opened the door, and David inquired for Mr. Guy. The answer was, "Yes, he was at supper," then showing the way into a handsome and well lighted room, she said, "Will you send in your name, sir," which he did. In a minute or two, Mr. Guy appeared, when David extending his hand, said, "I suppose you do not remember me, sir." Mr. Guy shook hands, then he said, "No, I do not, but that is not singular, for I see so many strange faces that it is impossible to remember them all." David then repeated his name, but still Mr. Guy was in the dark as much as ever. "But where do you come from," said he, smiling. David then told him where he lived. He began to feel a little foolish, too. Every incident of that visit of Mr. Guy's to his father's cabin, was indelibly impressed on his own mind, and he would have known Mr. Guy among a thousand; then why he should not recollect him, was a puzzler. At last he hit on a lucky expedient, said, "Why, Mr. Gay, don't you remember a cabin you visited away, almost at 
                     the the
                     the
                   top of Fall Mountain, where you found an old lady, who had only a piece of the Bible, and to-" But he had no occasion to finish the sentence. The whole expression of Mr. Guy's face changed in a moment. "Why, said he, you are the very boy to whom I gave the books; did you read them?" "Yes, sir, I read them," said David, "and I trust, I read them to the salvation of my soul. I have sought you out at some trouble, just to thank you for that visit, and perhaps to ask your wise counsel as to my future course." To this Mr. Guy replied, "My dear boy, I am very glad to see you: now, come and get some supper." 
               He did hot wait for a reply, but threw open the door into the dining room, where a large party were at tea. "Mrs. Slater," said he, "Here is the youth about whom I have so often spoken to you, and whose mother had only a part of the Bible, and who made such good use of it." Mrs. Slater, who was a very elegant and dignified lady, seemed at this announcement to understand all about David; she met him with the greatest kindness, introduced him to the family, and seated him next herself at the table. All which surprised David very much. He knew no reason why he should be treated with so much distinction by this fine lady, who seemed to be surrounded by every luxury that wealth could purchase. 
               But he learned afterwards, that true Christianity knows no distinctions between wealth and poverty; that among the followers of the meek and lowly Jesus there is only one class, and they are brethren, the disciples of one Lord, and the partakers of one faith, and one baptism. It took him a long while though, to reach this conclusion; for he often met with professing Christians, who did not stand on this Christ-ordained platform; but who would have been highly offended if the sincerity of their profession had been called in question. 
               Mrs. Slater did not belong to this class of professed disciples. Any one whom she had reason to believe loved the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity, was to her a brother or sister beloved; she called her house, Mr. Guy's headquarters, and it was at the risk of disquieting her very much, that he stopped any where else in the neighborhood. 
               Mr. Guy was not only a pious, but a highly educated man. He had been a lawyer in lucrative practice for many years, but a terrible disease with which he had been afflicted in early childhood, had returned with great violence, and he was obliged to relinquish his profession. His afflictions had been greatly sanctified to him; moving in the highest circles of society, his zeal for his Master led him to leave a luxurious home, and engage in the self-denying and laborious work of a Colporteur. Though he did not confine himself to it constantly, but only when the intervals of his disease permitted him to travel, he was always restless and unhappy, unless doing something to advance the cause of the Redeemer. 
               David had always hoped to meet this good man again. He felt that he could confide in him, and tell him of his ardent desire to go forward and fit himself for usefulness in the world. He thought, also, that Mr. Guy might be able to enlighten him as to whether those wishes were sinful or not, a matter that gave him much trouble, as he constantly tormented himself with the idea that it was pride and a vain wish to shine and become of some importance in his day and generation. He never doubted, for a moment, his own ability to surmount every obstacle in his way, if he only could be satisfied that his motives were for the glory of God, and for the good of his fellow men. Nor did he imagine that his friend could solve those difficulties for him; but he so longed for communion with a kindred spirit, one in whom he could confide, and one who might, at least, throw some light on all this darkness. 
               It might be asked here, why had this young disciple so full a measure of the Spirit's influence vouchsafed to him? It may be because he sought it with more earnestness than others. Or we might, perhaps say, "Even so Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight." 
               Mr. Guy listened with much interest to all he had to say; assured him his wishes were laudable and right, and, by all means, to go on and improve himself in every possible way. He furnished him with some elementary text books that he thought might be of use to him; and gave him much instruction as to the work he had undertaken. 
                
               All this was not done, or said in a night, but next morning when he ordered his horse and rode with him several miles on his homeward journey. They parted at last and David pursued his way alone. 
               Towards noon he found himself nearly opposite the cabin of Tim Davis, to whom, it will be recollected he gave his Bible. He did not wish to stop, and had passed the house some hundred yards, when he heard his name called in no unmistakable tones, and on looking round, he saw Mrs. Davis running towards him with all her might. As soon as she was within speaking distance, she screamed out, "I say, stranger, I want you to come and take that book away that you gave Tim, I don't want it in the house any more." "Why, madam," said David in amazement, "what harm is the book doing?" "Why sir, you see sir, my husband has done nothing but read in it ever since you were here, and more, he didn't sleep a wink last night, but took on so, I think he is crazy; and so says I to Ann Maria, his bewitched, he is, and the book has done it. Then says Ann Maria, sez she, marm why don't you burn the book. Oh, sez I, I'm afeared to burn it, and then-," 
               "Burn the Bible," said David, "I am afraid you are a very wicked woman; where is your husband?" "No, I ain't no wickeder nor yourself, and my husband's gone to cut a horning block caze ourn's broke." "Well, can I find your husband?" "No you can't, 'thout somebody go along to show you. He's way up in the 
                     uppper
                     upper
                   meador a cuttin' of a horning block, I tell you." "Well, when will he be back?" "Back? he wont be back till the cows comes home, I tell you, he never does. But wait, stop, I'll send Henry Clay; here Henry Clay, come here you little wagabone." A ragged urchin addressed by this celebrated name, now appeared from behind a stack of corn fodder, from which David's horse was endeavoring to make a dinner; and Mrs. Davis ordered him to go and bring his dad, quick, as the man who gave him the book, was come back and wanted his book again. This was spoken in a low tone, but David overheard it. "Now," said he, "what do you say that for? You know it is not true." Upon this, she looked a little foolish, and said, "I only told him to tell his daddy to come home." David felt inclined to admonish her a little more, but finally concluded, that his words would be wasted on such a hardened piece of womankind. He fixed his eyes on a horse shoe that was nailed over the door, and inquired "What that was for?" His simple question raised Mrs. Davis' ire again; "What's that for, yes, you may well ask that?" "Well, what is it for, then?" "'Why, it's for the witches, and if you nail a horse shoe over the door, the witches wont come a near you." "Well, has it done your husband any good?" "Nary time," said Mrs. Davis and then she went into the cabin and slammed to the door, leaving David sitting on his horse by the stack of corn fodder. 
               The truth was, that David felt that he had got into a quandary. He saw that something was wrong; and he felt that he could not leave this man, who seemed to him like a quiet, well-meaning person, to the tender mercies of such a virago, without at least seeing him. But, how long should he have to wait? time was precious, and he turned his horse and moved slowly down the steep road, then turned round in his saddle and looked back; the first object that met his gaze was Henry Clay, swinging by the lower branch of a 
                     scyamore
                     sycamore
                   tree. 
               "Halloo, young man, I thought your mother sent you after your father," The youngster now dropped to the ground, and said, "I's agwine." David thought this rather slow work, so he said, "Come along, boy, and show me where your father is," which, after all, under the circumstances, was the wisest thing he could do. 
               Henry Clay now trotted along, and David slowly followed up a very steep and zigzag mountain path, till they arrived at the meadow, at the further extremity of which, Timothy was at work. When he saw David, he hastened up to him saying, "Oh, sir, I am so glad to see you, but can't you come down to the house and stay to night?" David assured him that he could by no means do so, but that he understood from his wife that he was in trouble. 
               "Well, sir, I suppose I deserve to be in trouble. To tell you the truth, sir, I am a very great sinner, and I am getting to feel worse and worse; I think, sir, that I am the greatest sinner in the world." 
               "Well you are a great sinner, Timothy, so am I, and so is everybody, but Jesus Christ is a great Saviour, I suppose you know that, Timothy." 
               "Yes, but I can't see as I am to be saved, it's all dark." David now went on to explain the plan of salvation in a very simple way, making the whole scheme quite plain to the man's comprehension, who seemed perfectly amazed; "and is that all," said he, "all I have to do, just to give myself away; why, I cannot help doing that, but is that all have to do?" 
               "Yes, you must live a life of faith, prayer, and constant watchfulness; our Saviour says, 'Bring forth works meet for repentance,' and Saint Paul tells us, 'That faith without works is dead.'" 
               After spending a long while talking to this man, who seemed so thoroughly awakened to the interest of his soul, David knelt with him by the log on which they had been sitting, and prayed most fervently for him and his family. After which, he took from his stock of books, two that he thought suitable to his case, and Tim paid for them gladly. David also gave him the tract "Come to Jesus." Then bidding him farewell, he mounted his horse and rode away. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               The Head-Waters of Fall River. 
               AFTER the above interview with Tim Davis and his family, there occurs a blank in my friend's journal. We next find him setting off on his long coveted mission to the destitute inhabitants of the southern extremity of Randal county. 
               It was no small undertaking, for besides the ignorance of the people, the difficulty of getting to them, presented an almost insurmountable barrier. There were no roads, or at least anything that deserved the name. 
                
               The first day he only accomplished fifteen miles, and he found himself late in the evening in danger of being left without a lodging place for the night. For some time he had been following the course of a stream, hoping that it would lead to some cabin, where he might find shelter; but as yet he had met with no trace of human habitation. 
               At length, he concluded that it was useless to proceed any further in this direction, and he determined to return to the last dwelling he had passed, which was he thought, nearly five miles back on the river. Just as he had come to this final conclusion, his attention was arrested by the barking of a dog, and immediately after, he heard some one say, "Down Tiger, down;" and the next moment a man emerged from the thicket with a gun in his hand, and the half of a deer slung over his shoulder. 
               "Good day, stranger," said he to David. "Good day yourself," said David, but I think 'tis nearer night than day just now." Well night, if you please," replied the hunter, "but any how, it has been a good day to me, for I killed a fine buck up yonder, and skinned and dressed him, and hung one half on a tree, and you see here's the other half on my shoulder. Now stranger, if I might venter to ax, what 'er yer doin' ramblin' about here on the mountain this time o' day?" 
               "I am just now looking for a place to sleep, and where I can get my horse fed and sheltered," replied David. "Well, you can come with me if you like; I live down at the end of this gully." 
               David thanked him for the kind invitation, and the two set out, the man leading the way, striking off to the right, along a blind mountain path, that seemed only made for cattle to travel. After threading this narrow way for a mile, they emerged on a slope of cleared ground of some considerable extent, where stood a double cabin of the better order of that style of architecture, and several sheds or rude out-houses. 
               Here the hunter disposed of his venison, by hanging it high up on the branch of a tree. Then he went with David to attend to the horse; when that quadruped was housed and fed, they both entered the nearest cabin. A troop of children, some of whom were grown, or nearly so, had been all this time peeping round the corners of the house; they now scattered in every direction, and became invisible, in as short a time as did Rhoderick Dhu, at a sign from the famous chieftain. 
               The hunter said to his wife, as they entered, "Here, Sally, I've bro't a stranger; we must give him his supper, and a place to sleep." Sally, in reply, without deigning to acknowledge edge David's very civil bow, only said, "Well, slice me off some of yer venison there, and take the boy over to dad's house. I'm sure there's no room here." 
               The hunter then introduced David into the adjoining room, where a very aged couple sat in great arm-chairs, one on each side of an immense fire of pine logs. "Stranger," said the hunter, "this is my father and mother; he is ninety, and she is eighty-five;" upon this David shook hands with both the old folks, and took a seat on a stool between them. 
               In the journal of my friend, the conversation that ensued is in the form of a dialogue, and as I wish to make as few alterations in the narrative as possible, I shall just transcribe it as it stands. 
               
                  David-"Well, father, you have lived long while in the world." 
               
                  Old Man-"Yes, I am nigh upon ninety, and it's been a long journey. Was you out when York was tooken? I was there; and there's my gun," pointing to an old musket that hung over the fire-place. "Aye, that was a great day, when our troops was all drawn up on one side of the road, and the French all drawn up in line on the other side of the road; only the French was all dressed up so grand with their shiney bagnets, and grand uniforms; and our men hadn't two coats alike, and some was barefooted, and some had no hats on; but we could fight, couldn't we? didn't we guv it to 'em, the Brittishers;" (here the old man laughed immoderately). "I was on picket out in the field, and when they came marching up through the lines, with their colors all wrapped up, and their muskets on their shoulders shinin' in the sun, and their red coats all bran new, and they were so mad they flung down their muskets in a rage; and General Lincoln he says to 'em, 'Shame, boys, shame;' seven thousand I say, there was seven thousand of 'em all marched up and threw down their swords, belts, catrige boxes and muskets. Aye boy, that was a glorious day; was you there?" 
               
                  Old Woman-"Why, daddy, don't you see this is only a boy; he wasn't born when Cornwallis guv up to Washington at York." 
               David, to whom this bit of history was an enigma, made no reply to the old man's questions, but adroitly turned it to account for his benefit, in this wise: 
               
                  D.-"Yes, father, that was a great day, as you say; but there is a greater day than that, coming." 
               
                  O. M.-"Anan?" 
               
                  D.-"I mean, there is a day coming, in which God will judge the world,-when all the dead, small and great, shall arise and stand before the Judge. Then the righteous and the wicked shall be separated." 
                
               
                  O. M. - Yes, yes. My mother used to tell us about that, when I was a little codger; but that's a long time ago. She used to get us youngsters all around her, and tell us stories out of a book. Yes, yes," (nodding his head), "that was a long time ago." 
               
                  D.-"Have you got that book about the house yet? I suppose it was the Bible." 
               
                  O. M. - "Yes, that was it; it was the Bible. No, we hain't got it, and I ain't seen it for fifty year or more. Yes, my mother, it pears like to me, I remember her better an' better'n any thing else; she was a mighty soft-spoken woman, she was. Aye, aye, she died when I was twelve years old. That was before the war." 
               
                  D.-"Well, father, did she tell you of the Lord Jesus Christ, who came into our world to save sinners? and did she ask you, when she died, to meet her in heaven?" 
                
               
                  O. M.-"Aye, yes she did;" (and turning on David sharply), "how did you know that; was you there?" 
               
                  D.-"No, of course not; but this would be the most likely thing, a dying mother would say to her child." 
               
                  O. M. "Aye, aye, she made us all promise, but we forgot. There's Joe and Bill, was both killed at Point Pleasant; and the Indians scalped Jenny when they took the Black-house at Craig's Creek; and Tom was tuk prisoner and was never heard of since. Aye, we all forgot;" (and as awakened memory retraced the long backward track, a troubled expression settled on the veteran's face, and a tear stole silently down his furrowed cheek.) 
               
                  D.-"Then, as your mother made you promise to meet her in Heaven, I suppose you expect to do so?" 
               
                  O. M.-"Aye, aye, I would like to; but, young man, a wicked old sinner like me, cannot go there." 
               
                  D.-"There is none so wicked that he cannot be saved, if he repent, and turn from his sins, and trust for redemption through a crucified Saviour. You are a very old man, and have not long to live." 
               
                  O. M.-"I don't know, I reckon I'll make a hundred; my father was a hundred and one, when he died, and he fought in the old French war, and stood shoulder to shoulder with Washington at Braddock's field, till they all scattered, and then they popped 'em off from behind trees. Aye, my father lived a hundred years." 
               
                  D.-"Did he? Well, remember, that if you live to be as old as your father was, you have only ten years longer in this world, and that is a short time in which to make preparations for the next; a hundred years is a long time, but eternity is longer. You have a soul that can never die, and it is high time to see to that." 
               The whole family of grandchildren had dropped in by this time and were all attentive listeners to this conversation. David now took out a Bible, and inquired if any one there could read? He was answered by one of the girls, who said, "That no one there could read; but that Nancy Poulson who lived up the river, could read." "Then," said David, "suppose I leave this Bible here, will Nancy come and read to your grandfather and the family?" "Oh yes, she would do that, for she reads a great deal to the folks about." 
               David was somewhat surprised at this piece of intelligence, and inquired what kind of books she read. No one seemed able to answer this question; there was a dead silence for a few minutes, then a bright looking girl of about sixteen said, "Why, she reads to us about Sir William Wallace." This did not throw any light on the subject at all, and David set himself to the task more immediately before him; which was to endeavour to enlighten these dark minds as to the truths of the gospel. He commenced the story he had so often occasion to repeat during his wanderings in that land of Egyptian darkness; namely, the fall of man, his expulsion from Eden, his lost and ruined estate by nature, and the plan of his recovery through the merits of the Redeemer. In the course of the narrative, which was listened to with rapt attention, numberless questions were asked, which any Sunday school scholar of ordinary intelligence could have answered without difficulty. 
               His auditors knew about this much, that there was a God who made them, and all things; that there was a book called the Bible, which some people set great store by, though for what reason son they could not tell; that some things were right, and others wrong, but why this was so they did not trouble themselves to discover. And this was the sum of the theology of the people on my friend's field of labor. But he found some, who had a little more light; and others again, as this aged veteran, who only needed the chords of memory to be touched by a skilful hand to awaken the long buried past, and to bring to mind truths that had been imparted by lips which for long years had been mouldering in the dust. 
               After reading some appropriate portions of Scripture, my friend prayed most fervently for them all, but especially for this old couple, whose life's journey was nearly ended; and for the children and grandchildren, that they might be brought out of darkness into light, and from the service of sin into the service of God. 
               David slept that night in an out-house, where an apology for a bed had been prepared for him, as he preferred it to sleeping in the cabin. Next morning, after partaking of a breakfast in which the venison of the previous evening figured as the principal dish, he again read and prayed with the family. The hunter bought a Bible, and several other books, promising to have his children taught to read, if in an way he could have it accomplished. 
               The journal of my friend does not give an account of every visit paid during this tour, generally, only touching on them, which I rather regret, as the results were so manifest and striking, that it would be pleasant to follow him. Nor was he always welcomed as he was in this cabin, which was the first regular Colporteur visit that he made. 
               We find him at noon of that day at the dwelling of Nancy Poulson, spoken of already as the one who could read. His account of that visit is so graphic, that I am tempted to give it in full. This family had emigrated some years before from New England to Ohio; but from some cause, not succeeding there, they had removed and settled in this place, and here the good man had got things quite comfortable about him; but like many a settler in a new country, in the absence of all church organizations, and church privileges, he had sadly forgotten the faith of his Puritan forefathers. Not so his wife; she had received a good common school education, and some religious training, and was diligent while she lived in teaching her young family to read, and in instructing them in the truths of the gospel: but she had been dead for many years and the children were all married and settled in distant places. 
               The family only consisted of the father and one daughter Nancy, who was the oldest child and, now verging on forty, and three orphan grand-children all girls. 
                
               As David approached the house, those three girls were intently employed in building a snow man; they had just succeeded in putting on his head, the oldest standing on the fence for this purpose. When she saw the stranger, she sprang to the ground in dismay, and all three scampered into the house; the snow-head, meanwhile, having lost its equilibrium, fell to the ground and was smashed into fragments. 
               David, having dismounted, took his saddlebags, and walked to the door. After knocking two or three times, it was opened by Nancy, who gave him a rather cool reception, when the following dialogue took place: 
               
                  D.-"Can I come in and get warmed by your fire? I am very cold." 
               
                  Nancy-"Well, I guess you can, if you try; I don't see anything to hinder." 
               
                  D.-(coming in and taking a seat) "This is a very cold day, madam." 
                
               
                  N.-"No more a madam than you are yourself." 
               And Nancy resumed her spinning; David watched her as she ran back and forth, drawing out the long threads, and then running them on the spindle. Somehow it reminded him of his mother, or at least, as much as this tall, angular, black eyed woman could remind him of her, who was a meek, blue eyed, quiet, little dumpling of a woman, and who was kind to everything; why, the very crickets on the hearth were not afraid of her. This was what David was thinking: and then he concluded it; must be the spinning that reminded him of his loved parent. 
               After a while Nancy began to think that the stranger was warm enough, and had better be going; so she stopped her wheel and standing straight before him said, "Do you want to see fath'? If you're a surveyor, fa's claims is all settled; and yer not a goin' to run no lines acrost this patch of ground." 
               
                  D.-"I'm not a surveyor; I have some good books here I would like you to look at. May I ask if you have a Bible?" 
               
                  N.-"Well, I guess you must think we're heathens. Is that all you've got to say?" 
               
                  D.-"No, that is not all I have to say, and I did not intend to offend you by asking if you had a Bible." 
               
                  N.- Then what did you ax for?" 
               
                  D.-"For the simple reason that I have some Bibles here, and could supply you. May I see your Bible if you have one." 
               
                  N.-"No, I wont show you my Bible, caze you have no business to be axin such impudent questions; show you my Bible, indeed? I guess you think I can't read like the rest of the folks around here, but I'll let you know that I can." Whereupon she went to a cupboard and standing on a high stool brought down three ancient looking books, and perhaps a dozen almanacs stitched together. Then opening one of the books defiantly, she commenced reading aloud, 
                      
                        If o'er the heath she moves, her breast is whiter than the down of Cana, 
                        If on the sea-beat shore, than the foam of the rolling Ocean; 
                        Her eyes are two stars of light, her face is heaven's bow in showers; 
                        Her long hair flows in streamers like the clouds. 
                        Thou art the dweller of souls, white-handed Strinadonna. 
                     
                  
                
               While Nancy read this morsel of poetry, David sat and looked at her in great perplexity. 
               
                  Nancy-(triumphantly) "Now, what do you think of that?" 
               
                  D.-(humbly) "Why, I think she must have looked very queer; but wont you read some to me in your Bible, now?" 
               
                  N.-(growing very red in the face) "No, I wont; now you've got it. What for should I read to you in the Bible, when you're such an ignoramus. Now, do you know what book this is?" 
               
                  D.-"How should I know, I have never seen it, I dare say." 
               
                  N.-"No? Well, you must have read a great deal not to know what book this is. Why, it's the Pomes of Ossian. And here's a book, I dare say you've never read it nuther?" 
               
                  D.-(meekly) "No, I suppose not; what is it?" 
               
                  N.-"Why, it's the Scottish Chiefs; and this," (taking up another), "is the Children of the Abbey." 
               
                  D.- "And what do they treat of?" 
               
                  N.-(cooling down) "Well, they don't treat of anything in particular; this one, tells about Amandy, and her troubles; and this here one, is all about Sir William Wallace, and his wars and fightings; and I guess you must be considerable of an ignoramus, not to have read any of these books." 
               
                  D.-"Very likely, I don't pretend ever to have seen many books. You have called me an ignoramus twice, now; well, that is what I am, on almost all subjects but one." 
               
                  N. "And what's that, if I mough't be so bold?" 
               
                  D.-"It is a very important branch of knowledge and I get it out of a book, too. It is the belief that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, and that through faith in His name, I shall be saved with the Redeemed of all ages; and this, after all, is the one thing most needful to be known; for out of Christ there is no salvation. God meant that we should spend the little span of time that He gives us in this life, to His glory, and in preparation for the life which is to come, which is unending. I get this knowledge out of a book that you say you have, and therefore I suppose you know all this, as well as I do." Nancy, who during this address had seated herself and leaned her elbows on the table, now got up and resumed her spinning. At first vehemently, then as her passion cooled down her motions grew slower and slower, until finally, they ceased entirely; then turning to David, she addressed him with, "I suppose you think I am rather sharp." 
               
                  D.-"A little so. I don't know that I deserved so much abuse; I am riding in the cold and snow, through these hills, to try and do some good among the people; but if they all treat me as you have done, I fear I shall grow discouraged, and go home. I have received a message from my Master, and I felt that He bade me go and tell the glad tidings to others, who, if they ever have received, have forgotten them. Now, if you won't let me see your Bible, supposing you look at mine; here is one that I think you ought to have," (here David took up a Bible and handed it to Nancy). 
               She took the book, and turned over a few leaves, looking intently at them, whispering the while, "yes, it's just the same;" then making a great effort she said, "Well, sir, I'll own up, I hain't got no Bible, and more, I ain't seen one in twenty year; but, sir, I used for to read that book, when I was young." 
               "Well, my friend, I am sorry that you should have told an untruth, which is a great sin in the sight of God. Now, I trust, that you will read this book, prayerfully, Nancy, and remember that you have talents that might be turned to great account among your friends and acquaintances around you. Are you the only one who can read, in all this settlement?" 
               
                  N.-"My father can read; and I've been teachin' Jemina and Kezia and Keren, they can all read a little." 
                
               
                  D.-"That is very commendable, and I think I can put you on a plan to make yourself highly useful." 
               Nancy who was evidently growing more subdued every moment, now set back her wheel, and turning to one of the girls she said, "Kezia, you go and call your grand-dad. Keren, you go and set the table, and Jemima, you go with this gentleman and show him where to put his horse; and mind you give the beast some corn, and mister, may I ask your name?" The answer was, "They call me David." "Well, Mr. David I would like to give you some dinner." To this, David had no manner of objection, on the contrary he was much gratified that so stormy a beginning, should have so fair an ending. 
               Meanwhile, Nancy bestirred herself, and an excellent dinner was soon smoking on the table. Mr. Poulson came in with Kezia; he was a shrewd, sensible man, and met David with the utmost cordiality. 
               After the dinner was concluded, the books were displayed to the wondering gaze of the family, and Nancy brought out her store of money, the small accumulations of years, and kept in a stocking which she fished up from the bottom of a chest. She and her father bought each a book, and a Bible was bought for each of the girls. David proposed to show them their names in the Bible, which they insisted he could not do; but he turned to the last chapter of Job, and sure enough, there they were. 
               Nancy, who now seemed anxious to make amends for her rudeness in the morning, hinted that she thought she could gather a goodly number of her neighbors, by Sunday; and would David meet them on that day? to which he assented with much pleasure, adding, that he thought it would be an excellent plan for her then to commence a Sunday school; and would her father assist her in teaching. Mr. Poulson replied, that he was willing to do what he could, but recommended, that they should enlist old Mr. McCready, who was really the only good Christian that he knew in the settlement; adding, that Mr. McCready had a Bible, and read it too. 
               After this matter was settled, David read and prayed with the family, and after giving some exhortations and advice in a modest way, he departed much encouraged in his work. 
               I think my friend must have spent several weeks at home after his return from Briarton, for this part of his journal is written in a good, bold, round, though not a practiced hand, and I know that the Superintendent received a Report of the work performed in the month of January, containing a request for a fresh supply of books and tracts. This was sent by the hands of a cattle dealer, who gave Mr. Lively such an account of the wonderful Colporteur he had sent up there among the hills, as surprised that worthy man not a little. 
               A box of books was at this time forwarded to Gile's store, and from there on pack horses to Mr. Poulson's, on the head waters of Fall River. The journal of my friend contains no dates, but I am inclined to think that the events above recorded, occurred about the last of December or early in January. 
               His field of labor was not large, or at least not populous. The inhabitants depended mainly on hunting for a support, and in settling there, had only sought for a spot on which to build a cabin. Often within a few miles of these inaccessible places, there were fine plantations and dwellings, bearing every indication of comfort, if not wealth. But between these thriving land-holders and the dwellers among the hills there was no communication, except when the hunter would bring his surplus venison, or other game for sale among his wealthy neighbors. 
               David determined that, God helping him, he would not leave his field, till he had placed a religious book in every house, and that at least, one out of every family should be taught to read. This was a great undertaking, but David had found something for his hands to do, and he did it with all his might; and amidst all this labor, he studied hard, and read a great deal. 
               Mr. Guy, with considerate kindness, had forwarded a small box of such books as he thought might be useful to him; and David never lost a moment of precious time. Unaccustomed to the artificial wants of life, he did not miss them, and was more at home in a log cabin, than he would have been in a palace. He slept well, whether he had a bed to sleep on or not, and blest with an excellent constitution, he had never known by experience, what sickness meant. 
               We find by his journal, that on the following Sabbath, he returned to Mr. Poulson's, where he found as many people, old and young, as the house could contain. Probably many, perhaps all, were led there by mere curiosity; a few had seen the book-man, as they called David, and perhaps came expecting to secure some benefit; and among these, was the veteran of Yorktown and his family. 
               David had not contemplated addressing so large an assembly as this, but he did not shrink from what was so manifestly his duty; and without pre-meditation, and without intending it, he preached. His text was, "Flee from the wrath to come;" he managed to hold his rude hearers in rapt attention, for an hour and a half. Yes, he preached a crucified and risen Saviour; and many a rough cheek was bedewed with tears, which were brushed aside with the sleeve of a coarse hunting shirt. 
               Perhaps the spirit's out-pourings were there, and as effectually too, as in many a cushioned and carpeted city church, where the gospel is dispensed from eloquent lips, and the subdued light falls through stained glass on laces and feathers, satins and velvets. Who knows? 
               Many a heart was touched that day, and the scales fell from eyes that had spiritually been long shrouded in darkness. 
               At the close of this 
                     impromtu
                     impromptu
                   service, the older men and women thronged around David, thanking him for coming among them; asking how long he would stay, and begging him to visit them at their homes. "Bless the Lord, sir," said one old woman, "I came from Bald Eagle, Pennsylvany, nigh upon thirty years ago, and I never heard the gospel preached since." "Yes," said another, "and I came from Kishacoclus, and that was afore the East Indian war, and never a sarmont have I heard since, till this blessed day, and it's thankful I am, to hear the gospel preached once more." "Eh, sirs," cried an old Scotchman, edging his way through the crowd; "let me speak the noo Docter," seizing David at the same time by both hands, "tell me, noo, whach University was you at? Eh, was it Edinbro', or Aberdeen?" 
               This capped the climax; my poor friend had spoken from a full heart, but he had not the remotest thought of preaching; and now was it possible that he had ventured with sacrilegious foot, to enter the sacred pale of the ministry? 
               He grew cold to his finger tips at the thought, and stood looking from one to another of his admirers in blank amazement; the old Scotchman, meanwhile, was waiting for an answer. "Noo, Docter, tell me." "Why, my friend," stammered David, "you don't call that preaching, do you?" "Eh, sir, do I call that preaching?" "If it wasn't preaching, what was it? I've been to the Kirk, and I've heerd Chalmers, and I've heerd McCheyne, and there was none better. Aye, that was the Gospel, thank God." 
               My poor friend was fain to shrink away from all these flattering words, and spend a few moments alone; he crossed a hill at the back of the house, sat down on a grassy slope, and there communed with his own heart as usual. The first subject that engrossed his thoughts, was the morning's work. David had never heard much preaching; moreover, he had a terrible awe of preachers, looking upon them, as a class of men far too holy for him to approach; and he had never indulged the thought that he himself would, or could, ever preach; still farther was the thought that he could compose a regular sermon; and to preach it, was out of the question. 
               At first he was somewhat elated at the discovery of a talent that he had not before suspected himself of possessing; then the thought of the grade of intelligence of his morning's audience came over him like a dash of cold water. "What do they know about preaching? I dare say if I had stood up and talked that way to an intelligent audience, they would have laughed in my face. So after all, I am nobody; and it is best so. I can at least do a great deal of good out here, among these perishing sheep, and perhaps serve my Master as well, and if they call it preaching, that don't alter the case; one thing, they do not know what preaching is, that's clear." When he returned to the house, he found that many of his morning's audience had returned home, with the understanding, that they were to meet again in the evening and hear another sermon. Under these circumstances, David could not well avoid addressing them a second time, if indeed he had any wish to decline doing so. 
               The intervening time was spent by himself, Mr. Poulson, Mr. McCready, the Scotchman spoken of above, and Nancy, in giving instruction to some eighteen or twenty persons, young and middle aged, who, it was understood, were to meet together every Sunday in order to be taught to read, and be instructed in the Scriptures. This was the beginning of a Sunday school, and, as it afterwards proved, the nucleus of a church. 
               In the evening the small apartment was crowded, and David again spoke. He premised his address with the assurance that he was not a preacher; that he only meant to exhort, and that he hoped they would not call it preaching. 
               He spent many weeks in this settlement, and in that time, he had ample reason to believe that God had blessed his earnest labors. Many appeared to be seeking the way to actual life; and some he was convinced, had found the pearl of great price. Among these, he counted the old veteran of Yorktown, his wife and son, and Nancy Poulson, and her father. 
               Nancy proved, indeed, very useful, and my friend seems to dwell with peculiar delight on her indefatigable efforts to win souls to Christ. One of the first things she did, after she had sought, and obtained pardon for her sins which she had prided herself so much. 
               The volume of Ossian, she had given to David, because he seemed to have a fancy to dip into it occasionally. She opened a regular day school, to which came children large and small, some of these walking four or five miles. At night, she had a class of married persons, 
                   
                     NANCY AND HER DAY-SCHOOL. Page 158. 
                  
                  
                   in many cases, the fathers and mothers of her day scholars. Nothing was taught in either, but reading, and the Bible was the text book. 
               But we must leave this interesting settlement, and follow my friend, whom we now find with a fresh supply of books, setting forward on a new exploring tour. I think he must have travelled several days without meeting anything of particular interest. The first noticeable incident we find in his journal, is in substance as follows. 
               The rains had swollen the mountain stream so much, that travel was both difficult and dangerous. David had been visiting the families who lived on the main branch of Fall River; he was told that there was a little settlement higher up still, but no one seemed to know exactly where it was, others had met the men frequently, while hunting, but represented them as a wild, lawless set, and no one advised him to try to find out where they lived. David, however, was not to be deterred from his duty, by any considerations of that kind, and he resolved as soon as the weather would permit, that he would make the attempt. 
               He remained in this part of his field for a month, visiting every family in a circuit of twenty miles, and I may add, with even more success than had followed his labors lower down. It seemed, as my friend remarks in his journal, that the spirit of God was brooding in every heart in these mountain fastnesses, and was only waiting the Ithuriel touch of the truth, to vivify, and make it spring up and bear fruit to eternal life. But the journal during this part of his tour, consists merely of detached memoranda, and is far from being as complete as I could have wished. 
               When the spring had set in, we find him going forward with his work, but in the midst of many difficulties. Once, in having lost his way, he failed to find a lodging place altogether, and was obliged to spend the night under a tree, with only his blanket for a covering, and his saddle for a pillow. The morning after this sad misadventure, he arose early; his horse was free, to graze overnight, and now, having put on the saddle and saddle-bags, and strapped the blanket on behind, he leaned on the saddle, holding the reins in his hands, and debated the question with himself, what he should do next, when he saw a man in a brown hunting shirt, and a gun on his shoulder, coming down the road; David stood perfectly still, till the hunter, coming within a few paces of him, stopped, and the two looked at each other in silence for a few moments. At last the hunter said, "Well, sir;" to which David replied, "Well, sir." After another long pause, during which the man walked round David's horse, examining him from every point, he spoke again: "I say, stranger, I call that beast of your'n, a considerable of a poor critter." David did not feel in an amiable mood that morning, and the man's coolness, provoked him beyond endurance. So he replied, very tartly, "If you had toiled over these hills as long as he has, and gone without any food, you would be a considerable of a poor looking critter yourself; and as it is, I don't see that 
                     your
                     you're
                   in a remarkably flourishing condition." "Well, youngster, if your'e in for a fight, I'm a-ready." Then putting a quid of tobacco into his mouth, and laying his gun on the ground, and showing a tremendous fist doubled up ready for business, he continued, "There's my fist, and if you had said that much to many a fellow, as I knows of in these diggins, you'd just got a bullet instead." David had no sooner spoken, than he felt how wrong it was to lose his temper, so he said, "Never mind, my friend, I was rather hasty; but my horse is almost starved, as well as myself. I got lost, and have slept on the ground all night, and feel very badly." 
               "Aye," replied the hunter, "so you wont fight; well, I thought as much, and you slept on the ground did ye? wal, I slept on the ground too; no, I didn't nuther, for I was watchin' a deer lick, but come along youngster, I guess Betsy Ann can give us a corn dodger and a hunk of jerked venison, and I spose we can raise a nubbin or 
                     too
                     two
                   of corn for the beast." 
               David, well pleased to have gotten out of what threatened to be an ugly scrape, now followed his loquacious guide, leading his horse by the bridle, which indeed, was his usual custom. The hunter, as he led the way down the steep mountain path, plied David with questions, and when told that those large saddlebags contained books, he professed to be highly gratified, declaring "That he loved reading next to hunting, which was saying a great deal." "You see," said he "I had lived here twenty-five years, when me and Betsy Ann got married, that was up to Portland in the State of Maine; though Betsy Ann came from Ireland. My uncle Joshua Grant owned the place, and you see he was sort a lonesome, so he writ me to come on, and when he died, he'd leave me all he had. So, Betsy Ann and me came on, and my uncle Josh did leave me all he had; there's three little farms, and we works 'em all, and get a tolerable livin' out of 'em." 
               By this time they had reached Mr. Grant's dwelling, which consisted of three cabins in a row, with wide piazzas between them; upon the whole, it presented a very comfortable appearance, lying as it did at the base of a steep hill, with several acres of cleared ground in front, a number of fruit trees scattered about, and a garden enclosed with a good rail fence, where Mrs. Grant, or Betsy Ann, was there at work, with several children. 
               The hunter called to his wife, saying, "Come Betsy Ann, foch on yer breakfast; I've fotched a stranger, don't yer see? and he's a starvin' and so am I." On hearing this address, Betsy Ann dropped her hoe, and looking up, said, "Well, Tom Grant, so you've got home, have ye? and where's your venison?" "The venison's running in the woods, yet, Betsy Ann; but hurry up yer breakfast, now; and Ceely, where's Andrew Jackson?" "Why, he went with Tom Jefferson, to bring the cows." "Tut, tut, where's Patrick Henry, then?" "Mammy sent him down to Mrs. Montague's to borry a plate, and a knife and fork." "Shoo, shoo," said Mr. Grant again, "where's all the boys? Ah, there's Powaton. Here Powaton, run up to the corn-crib and bring a basket of corn for the gentleman's horse." 
                
               Mrs. Grant now took a tin horn from the wall, and blew a loud blast thereon. This was intended, to summon the family to breakfast. 
               One by one they dropped in, David counted, till he reached thirteen; then he lost count, and began again. The family were seated on benches, that stood on each side of a long pine table. My cultivated readers must not imagine that this was a breakfast at all like what we see every day in ordinary life, for there were no plates, cups and saucers, or knives and forks. Through the diligence of Patrick Henry, my friend was furnished with plate, knife and fork, but he appeared with those articles, hatless and shoeless after the family had been seated for some time. Each one was furnished with a large clasp knife, which seemed to answer every purpose. David, as he did every where on his visits, proposed to ask a blessing, but Mr. Grant said, "No, he would ask a blessing himself," so he arose and said, "For what we are about to receive, the Lord make us thankful;" and then he sat down. 
               They had hot corn bread, fried bacon, and milk for breakfast. David now counted the children, again, and this time he made fourteen; he rested satisfied that this was the number, and was just beginning to feel contented under the conviction, when a squeal directly behind. him, caused him to look round; and there a great fat baby had popped up its head out of a bark cradle at his back. "Mr. Grant," inquired he, "are these all your children?" "Why, yes," said Grant in reply; "as far as I know they are: well, yes, I think I may venter to say, they are mine." Mrs. Grant, who was a large woman with very red hair, and a freckled face, which did not add greatly to the beauty of her countenance, had listened to this little episode, with flashing eyes; she now spoke, "Well, Tom Grant, ye may well say that, an ye know there's niver a brat o' them, but father's hisself." 
               "Hi, hi, Betsy, don't let your Irish blood get up now; you see, mister," continued Grant, turning to David, "these children was all born in this cabin, and there's fifteen of 'em. There's George Washington, that's the oldest boy, I never count anything on girls; and there's Thomas Jefferson." "Which is he," inquired David; "is he the one with the red head?" "No, that's John Smith. Tom Jefferson, I say, stand up;" that individual now rose to his feet; "and," continued Mr. Grant, "that is Patrick Henry; and this is Powaton." "And what do you call the baby," inquired David. "I don't call that anything, its a girl; girls ain't no account, and not worth giving names to, any how." To this proposition, David demurred saying, "that he thought girls were of great account, and that he had no sister, but that he had often wished he had one." "Well, if you want one so bad, why you may have one of mine," replied Tom; "there they are, take your choice." This proposal was so alarming to David, that he secretly determined to get away from that place as quickly as possible, and never return. 
               Mr. Grant, however, did not notice his confusion in the least, but returned to the subject of boys with renewed vigor. "You see," said he, "I have given my boys, all, historical names; the fact is, I am great on history." Upon this, David took a minute survey of the apartment, to see if he could detect any signs of that class of literature; but he failed, as there was nothing in the shape of a book visible. "And what history do you study, Mr. Grant," inquired David. "Why, I read-but just step this way, and I'll show you my library ry," said Mr. Grant, in reply. David followed him across the piazza, into the next cabin; and there on a hanging shelf, were Goodrich's History of the United States, The Life of Capt. John Smith, Weems' Life of Washington, and Robinson Crusoe. "There's my library, sir, and I consider it a very good selection; now what do you think, mister." 
               "Why," replied David, "I think it will do very well, as far as it goes, but there is one book that is of more importance to you than all those; indeed, it is worth all the books in the world." "Tut, tut," said Mr. Grant, "and what may that be?" "Why, 'tis the Bible, and I would be glad to furnish you with a copy of that blessed volume;" while David was speaking, he had been opening his saddle-bags, and now he handed a Bible to his host. "Why, yes," said the latter, "this is a good, I I may say, an excellent book, and I have read it often and many a time, but that was up in the State of Maine; you see my father was great on the Bible, and he used to read in it every day." "Then," replied David, "if you are so well convinced of its merits, as indeed you should be, as it is a message from God to his fallen creatures, I hope you will buy this copy; it will only cost you fifty cents. You certainly ought not only to have the Bible, but also to see that your children are taught to read it." 
               Mr. Grant was evidently not at all pleased with this suggestion. He looked at the book meditatively, laying it on the palm of his hand, as if to ascertain the exact weight. "Well," said he at last, "this may be the same that my father used to read, but it's not all there. No, I don't want this; fifty cents is a big price for that. I guess I'll wait and get a whole Bible when I get one." 
                
               "Why, my good friend," said David "this is the whole Bible; look at the title page." Tom now read the title page slowly; then laying it down he said, "Now, youngster, don't try to come any of yer Yankee tricks over me;" then taking up the book, and pointing to the title page, "Look'ee there, published by the American Bible Society; I tell ye, my father's Bible was published by King James; I remember well what it said; and it was, King James, by the grace of God, King of France, England and Ireland. No sir'ee, this is another Bible entirely, and you may deceive the ignorant people about here, but you can't come it over me that a way. I can read." 
               David found it hard to control his temper under such vile insinuations; he saw that here the Bible must be a gift, and yet he knew that this man was well able to pay for it; so he swallowed his wrath as well as he could, but could not help saying, "Why did you call me a Yankee? I was born in this State, and am no Yankee; but you are one yourself, by your own showing, having come from the State of Maine." Tom took another quid of tobacco, as though he was cornered, and was considering how to get out; then brightening up, he replied, "I calculate as how twenty-five years in this State, has tooken all the Yankee out o' me 'fore now." 
               David wisely concluded, that further time would be lost on this man. He then inquired if he would object to calling his family in, as he would like to unite with them in prayer before he left. Tom was a little softened by the young man's mildness, so he went to the door and called the children, many of the older boys and girls being present during the whole conversation. When they were all assembled, David as his custom was, read, prayed, and talked to them in a familiar manner ner, saying many things that struck his young auditors very forcibly. He then gave the Bible, as a joint gift to all, saying, "that he hoped when he returned that way, to find that some of them would be able to read it; and to that one, whoever he might be, he would present a book that would be worth something, though nothing like so valuable as that one." 
               Having said this, David asked Mr. Grant for his bill; that is, he said, "Well, what's the damage, friend." "Why," replied that individual, "you've got yer breakfast, and you've got yer horse fed, and I guess that's worth a dollar." David handed him the money, saying, "Here it is, and you are the first man who has charged me for a meal since I have been in this region." 
               As David was leaving, he inquired "How far it was to the next cabin?" One of the boys answered, that it was about a mile, and pointed ed out the way; and then he left after shaking hands all round, with the parents and the fourteen children. 
               His road, if such it might be called, wound around the base of the steep hill spoken of before; he had described about the half of a circle, as he thought, when he heard a voice shouting his name. The sound appeared to come from the region above, so he looked up, and there, perched on a cliff, sat a boy. "Why do you call me?" inquired David, who immediately identified him of the cliff, as George Washington. "Why," replied the boy, "I want you to wait, till I come down." "Very well," said David, "I will wait." Upon this the boy sprang down the rocks with the agility of a cat. "Here I am," said he, throwing a small bundle on the ground. "You see, I slipped away from dad; and I think dad was darned mean to take money from you for your breakfast." "Well my little man," said David, "if you have anything to say to me, you must not use profane language; neither must you speak in such terms of your father; he certainly knows his own business best, and you are not a proper judge in the case." 
               "Yes, I am though, and my dad's all-fired mean, and stingy, too; I tell you, he'll squeeze a quarter till the eagle screams, and he don't allow me and Tom to learn to read; but I reckon we cheat him good." David now inquired "How he had cheated his father in this matter?" "Why, you see it's a secret, don't tell any body, but we chop wood, and we bring the cow home, and we does all sorts of things for Mrs. Montague up there in the hollow, and she teaches us to read; and we can both read real well; and says I, to Tom, says I, Tom, lets take our skins and folly that man, and trade 'em off for books; and says Tom, says he, well let's, dad 'ill find it out if we both go, so you go, and I'll stay with dad; and that's how I come; and here I am, and will you trade? I've got six possum skins, and foxes and rabbits." 
               All this reminded David so much of his own early struggles, and reachings after knowledge, that for a moment, he was quite affected; but these boys were not so favored as he had been; his loving, gentle mother had cherished every desire that he had evinced to improve, and his father had never really thwarted him. 
               He dismounted and sat down on the stone where the boy was seated, saying, "-My dear child I cannot trade, for I am not allowed to; besides, I have more load now than my horse is well able to carry, but I will give you a book for yourself, and one for your brother." "Thank you," said the boy, "that will be splucious, and I'll tell you another secret; we've got a Bible a'ready; Mrs. Montague guv us; it's tore some, and some's gone, but we keeps it in a tight box we made for it, and we keeps the box under a big rock up here, and we comes and reads when we can." "Now, George," said David, "I must go; be a good boy, I shall see you again." George Washington took up his bundle of skins and vanished among the crags; and David also, resumed his journey in meditative mood, leading his horse along the narrow road, which now struck off abruptly from the hill, and followed the winding of a little brook, that seemed to steal in and out among the sassafras and dogwood, as if it were fain to hide itself from prying eyes. Presently, it emerged from the overshadowing woods, and David was surprised, as well as delighted, to find himself in full view of a pretty little farm, of perhaps forty acres of meadow, and fields under good cultivation, the whole lying embosomed in an amphitheatre of hills. The stream that he had been following, flowed through the center of this charming little valley, and in a grove of chestnuts stood the cabin of Mrs. Montague, completely embowed in honeysuckle and other creepers. 
               Mrs. Montague met our friend at the door, and greeted him with the greatest cordiality, saying, as she gave him her hand, "I have long prayed for a visit from some Christian. I think the church has forgotten the stray sheep, who are famishing at her own doors, while she is sending the bread of life to foreign lands. I am so thankful that they have remembered us at last." To this David had nothing to say, as he was not aware that any church had sent him, and sometimes he felt as if he had come without being sent. "But," continued Mrs. Montague, "are you a member? you look very young." "No," replied David, "I am not a member. In fact, I am nobody at all; that is," said he, smiling, "I don't aspire to the honors of being called a missionary, nor am I sent by any church organization." "Well, but you bring us the Gospel, for my little friends, the Grants, have been here, and I know more about you than you suppose, and have been waiting impatiently for your arrival for the last hour." 
               The history of Mrs. Montague, as my friend had it from herself, was a sad one. She had lived with her family in a large town in the central part of the State, till the death of her husband; she then removed to a farm in the country. Here her oldest son had the management of the estate; he was wild and reckless, and finally committed a crime, which made him amenable to the laws of his country, and he was now suffering the penalty, which was imprisonment for life in the State Penitentiary. His heart-broken mother could not bring herself self to meet her friends and acquaintances again; she sold what remained of her property, and removed to a remote part of the State, in the hope that her disgrace would not follow her: but in this she was disappointed; the sad story did follow her, and was bandied about by the busy bodies of the neighborhood, until it reached her ears; she then resolved to remove to this wilderness, which she did by the assistance of a brother who lived thirty miles off. This brother often visited her in her seclusion. She had already, though only a year in the place, been the means of much good among her rude neighbors, as has been seen in the case of Tom Grant's two sons; but her means were limited, she being mainly dependent on this brother for her support. 
               This truly pious woman, entered with the greatest interest into David's mission to her untutored neighbors; she undertook, though with many misgivings, to try and influence Tom Grant to open his house for a meeting on the following Sunday. That individual, after making a great display of elocution, finally agreed to this arrangement; and Mrs. Montague took her horse and rode round among her neighbors, urging them to attend. On Sunday there was quite a meeting at Tom's house. After the services were over, David gave a tract to each one, and then proposed that all who wished to learn to read might adjourn to Mrs. Montague's, that afternoon, as that lady had agreed to teach a class every Sunday. This was the beginning of another Sunday school, which has been kept up ever since. 
               After the lesson my friend received the night he was lost, and slept on the ground, he was more cautious, and he made it a rule, while in this part of his field, to return to Mrs. Montague's every night. Here he left his books, and when the weather was too inclement for travel, here he had a quiet home; and he managed to find an hour or two each evening in which to give instructions to some poor boy or girl in the mysteries of the alphabet, or in some of the preliminary steps to the art of reading, which somehow, never failed to become a fashionable accomplishment wherever David went. 
               He found, that in about one half of the cabins he visited, one or two of the inmates could read, but he found only three families who had the Bible. He met some, who did not even know there was such a book, and some again, who did not know what a book was at all, as in the following case. 
               He had walked, and led his horse to the top of a high hill or spur of the mountain, expecting as usual, to find some one living there; as these spurs are almost invariably level on the summit; he was not disappointed this time, for he saw several cabins scattered along, for perhaps a mile. As he approached the nearest one, he saw the inmates flying across a meadow; he tried the door and found it fastened on the inside. As David stood there, he saw a girl peeping round the corner of the cabin, who when she found she was discovered, ran off as fast as she could scamper. David seemed to have decided on his line of tactics very soon, for he dropped his saddle-bags and ran after her; being the swifter runner of the two, he soon overtook the flying nymph of the mountain, and taking her by the arm, he said quietly, "What are you running away for? Look at me." The girl turned on him a pair of very soft black eyes, that reminded David of those of a fawn he had once caught, and then released, because its look was so human; and he felt like doing the same thing now, but he continued, "Now do you think I would do you any harm?" 
                
               "I didn't say you was going to hurt any body, now let me go." 
               "No, you didn't say anything of the kind, but I saw the whole family running of, and I'm tired climbing the hill, and don't choose to run after them, so I'm holding you; now this is a nice way to treat a stranger, isn't it?" David said this in a laughing sort of a way, and the girl judging from this that he meant no harm, grew more confiding, and replied, 
               "Well, it isn't nice, but marm's afeard, and so is Peggie, and so is the chile'n, and so they all run off." 
               "Now if I let you go, will you open the door and let me in, and then run and bring them all back, and after that I would like to have my breakfast?" 
               "Yes, if you let me go, I'll tell ma'm. I dunno whether she'll come back or no." Upon this promise, he released the girl, who went to the back door, while David went to the front, and stood waiting where he had left his saddle bags. In a moment he saw a leather string issue from a small aperture in the door. David knew what that was, so he pulled the string, and the door stood open, and there stood the girl facing him. 
               "This is all right; now, my good girl, what is your name?" 
               "Why, my right name's Louise, but they call me Pussy." 
               "Well, Pussy, are you going to tell your mammy, and the rest?" 
               "Oh yes, I'll go; but granny's under the bed." 
               "Is she? well, let her stay then," rejoined David. 
               In a short time Pussy returned with her mother, and some half a dozen children. 
               "Now," said David, "what did you all run off for, when you saw me coming?" 
                
               "Land, man alive, I tuck you for the sheriff," answered the mother. 
               "Well, you see I am not the sheriff. I am what they call a Colporteur, and I come with no evil intent." 
               "Land knows, but you don't look like a pusson would do any harm." 
               "Then you had better tell your mother to come out from under the bed, it must be uncomfortable there." 
               "Land yes; she's not my mother, though; she's Bill's mother. Granny, granny, come out; this ain't no officer, but a peddler, and he's got lots o' nice things in his saddle bags." Upon this, an old woman with a very white head, crept out from under the bed. 
               "Land, granny, you've lost yer cap; run Possom, and get yer granny's cap;" at this command, a small boy crept under the bed, and presently returned with that article of dress, which was duly adjusted on the old lady's head. After this was done, Pussy announced that the stranger wanted his breakfast, and they all set to work with a will to prepare it, which was easily done, for it only consisted of the usual hard corn bread and fried bacon, to which Pussy of her own accord added a couple of boiled eggs. The horse was also attended to, having been turned into the meadow, to graze at his will. After all this was done, David thought it time to examine into the moral necessities of his entertainers, and he asked the usual question, "My good woman, have you got a Bible?" 
               "Got a what?" inquired she. 
               "I asked if you have a Bible?" 
               "Land no, poor folks like us hain't no use for them things." 
               "Jane Johnson," said the grandmother, "I'm ashamed of you, not to know what the Bible is." 
                
               "Land knows, what is it then, granny?" again asks the woman. 
               "Why, 'the Bible is the best of books; good boys and girls have modest looks;' I had a Bible once, young man, but Dan traded it off for whiskey." 
               David began to think that this was hard ground to break up and sow the good seed in, and his zeal fell to zero under this reflection. He rallied his scattered forces however, and looked round on the girls to see which was the brightest; the scrutiny did not cost him a moment. Peggie was decidedly the one, so he addressed himself to Peggie saying, "What is your name, my good girl?" 
               "They call me Peggie, but my right name's Caroline," replied she. 
               "Well, Caroline, I am going to give you a book; now, if I do, do you think you can learn to read?" 
                
               "I never tried to do anything in my life, that I didn't do it. I can try," she answered. 
               "Very well, supposing you try now." David took up the Tract Primer, and very deliberately sat down to initiate Peggie into the mysteries of the English alphabet, the family all standing round in silent wonder. 
               It may be, that any girl of sixteen, with an exceedingly handsome youth by her side, doing his best to instruct her in some abstruse branch of science, might have exerted her mental powers as much as Peggie did on the present occasion. I leave that question to the decision of those better versed in the female mind, than the writer; but it is very certain, that in less than an hour, Caroline was mistress of every letter in the alphabet; though she had probably never seen a book before in her life. David then gave her the Primer, and a Bible, with the injunction that she was to go to Mrs. Montague tague, once a week and take a lesson from that lady, which she promised to do. 
               In another cabin he found the family at home, except the father, who ran and hid as David approached. It seemed that in this neighborhood, the people were determined to take him for the sheriff. Here the woman asked him as soon as he entered, if he were the sheriff. "I came here to do good, and not harm," replied David. Then she went to the door, and called her husband, who was hiding in a cave, at the spring below the house. The man soon appeared, and when David had introduced himself and his business, he said, "My friend, why did you take me for the sheriff?" 
               "Why, it's all along of the taxes. I thinks folkses that lives up here, hadn't ort to pay no taxes, and I reckon if you ain't the sheriff, you're the constable, and that's about the same thing, or worse." 
                
               "There you are wrong again; I am neither the one nor the other. Can I get my horse fed?" he inquired. 
               "Well, I spec. Just come along, and 
                     i'll
                     I'll
                   show you if you can't." David never needed an invitation to go and see that his horse was attended to, he always went, whether he was invited or not; when that was done, they returned to the house, where they found dinner waiting, which consisted of fried beefsteak, potatoes roasted in the ashes, hot corn bread and buttermilk. While at dinner, David explained his mission, and inquired if they had a Bible. 
               "No, I have no Bible, but Square Jonas down at the Dry Licks, he have one; what do you want it for, mister? I thought you said you wasn't an officer," answered the man. 
               "I am not; does no one use the Bible but officers?" pursued David. 
                
               "Nobody about here uses one, as I knows on, 'cept Square Jonas, and he uses it to swear folkses on." 
               "Now, my good friend, can you read?" 
               "Nary time, nor write nuther; but I always makes my mark,-all the same." 
               At this juncture David gave up the father in despair, and concluded to try the mother; so he said, 
               "You have some bright looking children here; which of them is the smartest, now?" 
               "Why bless your soul and body, young man, they are all as smart as steel traps." 
               "I believe you; there is something in the air of these mountains that makes children smart and active." By this, David meant that the free air of the mountains brightened the intellect, as well as invigorated the body. 
               "Actyve, yes, they are as nimble as foxes; well, you axes me, which is the smartest, and if I was called on to take my oath on that ere question, I believe I would say Grattan; where's Grattan, Beauty." The individual thus addressed, was a stout girl with a very red head, a very freckled face, and pink eyes with a terrible squint in them. Beauty went out, and presently returned with the information, that Grattan was helping Dad to make a partridge trap, and wouldn't come. In answer to his mother's call, however, he appeared, shoeless and hatless with a very sun-burnt countenance. "Grattan," said David, "your mother tells me you are very smart." 
               "So I am, sir," was the answer. 
               "Well, Grattan, if you are so very smart, I suppose you can learn to read?" 
               "I can read already, sir," was the ready response. 
               "Indeed, I am very glad to hear it; what have you got to read?" The boy lifted a small box from the shelf over the chimney, and took from it a book and two newspapers, very much the worse for wear; he then walked up to David, saying, "Which shall I read out of?" David said "he preferred the book," whereupon, Grattan read in a clear, sonorous voice, as follows: "Section 32.-The General Assembly shall not pass local or special laws in any of the following enumerated cases, namely: for the assessment and collection of taxes for State and County purposes, or extending the time for the collection of taxes, providing for the support of public schools, granting divorces; relating to fees or salaries; relating to the interest on money; providing for regulating the election or compensation of State or County officers, or designating the place of voting, or the boundaries of election districts. The General Assembly, at its first session, after, the adoption of this constitution, shall pass general laws,-" 
                
               Here David interposed, "That will do, my fine fellow; how did you learn to read?" 
               "Tom Jefferson teached me the letters, and I learned to read myself, just like Tom; and I've read this book through a dozen times, and the papers. I know them all by heart." "And what book is it?" inquired David. "It's the Revised Code, but I would rather have a story book like Tom has, when he steals it from his Dad, and we goes up on the hill and reads; its a powerful nice story, all about a man what was lost on a lonesome place, and he had nobody but Friday and his goats." 
               "Well, Grattan, I think you will make a lawyer some day; and now take this Bible, and see that you make a good use of it. Remember that it is the word of God, and it will be worth more than all the world to you if you follow its teachings; and, Grattan, I want you to promise me that you will teach your brothers and sisters to read it." 
                
               "Yes, sir. What is it you said you thought I'd make, some day?" queried the boy. 
               "I said you would make a lawyer," returned David. 
               "Well, I don't mean to stay in these diggins. Tom and me, we're both a goin' to seek our fortins, like Robinson Crusoe." 
               The next cabin visited, David spoke to a man who was at work outside mending a fence, and asked, if he had a Bible; the man looked at him stupidly, and saying, "You had better go in the house and ask the women; they knows better than I do." David then went to the door, and repeated the question. 
               "What is it?" asked a woman who was spinning. 
               "Why, it's the word of God," answered David. 
               "Well, I don't think he ever sent it here, if He did, I never heard anything of it." 
                
               "Do you know Mrs. Montague, who lives in the hollow, below?" 
               "Oh yes, it's her sent the stuff for daddy's rheumatiz; she's a mighty good woman, she is." 
               "Are these girls your sisters?" 
               "Some of 'em is, and some of 'em isn't." 
               "Which of them is?" 
               "Why, this one is," pointing to a very pretty child of ten, or thereabouts. 
               "Now, sis," said David, "here is a book, that was given by God, who is your Maker, and who made us all; I want you to come to Mrs. Montague's to-morrow, and if I find that you can learn to read this book, I will give it to you." The child seemed highly delighted at the proposal, and promised to go, and I may add, that she turned out to be one of that lady's most promising pupils, and fully performed her engagement, having not only learned to read herself, and so won the Bible, but she taught many others among her young companions to read, as will be shown in the sequel. This child's name was Lelia Day. 
               I see by my friend's journal about this time, that he was often discouraged, and cast down; and was sometimes on the point of giving up in despair, an enterprise so fraught with difficulties. He says he would have done so, had he not met here and there, all over his field, with men and women who were enlightened enough to appreciate the importance of the work, and who lent him every assistance and encouragement in their power. 
               As it was, his success was truly wonderful, and to those who are unacquainted with a state of society such as existed in this region, it may, indeed, seem incredible. In the history of the settlement of those rural districts, we find that society, after arriving at a certain point, enters on a new stage. The first object in a new settlement is plenty of game, and this was the great inducement no doubt, in the settlements on these hills. Then, as the population increased, and game became scarce, the settler turned his attention to agriculture, and so managed to eke out a living between the two. Of course the man who was possessor of the greatest amount of tillable land was in advance of his neighbor who only owned a small patch on the mountain side. But even with those land-holders, there was great uncertainty, for the titles were in a very unsettled condition; hence the holders of landed property, no matter how small it was, were in continual dread of writs being served by the sheriff, and they were slow in making improvement when all might be swept away by a prior claim. Still they were in too close proximity to civilized life, not to be in a measure sensible how far back they were in the scale of society. They were in a transition tion state, and the people were mostly ready to welcome any innovation if it only promised to better their condition. They had grown tired of their hard, rough way of life, and were beginning to sigh for some of the comforts and conveniences enjoyed by their richer neighbors. But this was not all; there was an awakening in the minds of the people, to the importance of religion and education, to the benefits to be derived from churches and schools;-but alas, their poverty presented an insurmountable barrier, and yet there was something inexpressibly touching in the eagerness with which many of these simple mountaineers grasped at the word of Life, when it was for the first time brought to their doors. 
               David was not alone in his success; more than a score of Colporteurs sent out by this noble society into those destitute places, bear the same testimony; though I think the labors of no one of them, were so signally blessed, as were his; as certainly there was not on all that vast field, a region so utterly benighted, as the one he visited. 
               Moreover, if any one is blest with a sincere desire to test the efficiency and power of the Gospel on the human heart, let him leave the great cities, and cultivated districts, where a high civilization prevails, and go to the dwellers in the mountains and the forest. He will there find a tendency to religion and piety, which will be sought for in vain in cities and large towns. There the people are more. acquainted with the works of God, and less with those of man. Their occupations are simple, requiring no skill or ingenuity. There is nothing in their pursuits to foster pride and self-sufficiency, which are foes to that lowliness of mind which forms the basis of true Christianity. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               A Close Bargain, and a Little Romance. 
               DAVID considered his labors in very successful. After visiting all the families within a range with his kind friend, Mrs. Montague, and many others, with regret, which was fully reciprocated on their part. They begged him to repeat his visit which he promised to do in the fall, and he then departed to explore other parts of his field. 
                
               We find that his progress was slow, and difficulties seemed to thicken around him. He often found it almost impossible to get a sight of any one, as the people almost invariably ran and hid, when they saw him approaching their cabins. Sometimes, however, they met him with kindness and hospitality, that in a people so poor were truly affecting. On one occasion, when both David and his horse were suffering from hunger, he knocked at the door of a cabin, which was opened by an aged woman. He made known his wants, asking if he could have some food for himself, as well as for his horse. "You are welcome to such as we have, young man, but it is not much," she replied. "We are just going to dinner, so come in. I can provide for your horse better than I can for yourself, for I have a little corn which you cannot eat, and the horse can;" so saying, she sent her daughter, to show David where he 
                   
                     DAVID AT MRS. WINGFIELD'S CABIN. Page 204. 
                  
                  
                   would find the provender, while she prepared the dinner. 
               This was a difficult task, for it only consisted of three boiled potatoes, a small corn cake of an oblong shape, and known throughout the country by the name of "dodger;" these, with a tin cup of buttermilk, which was set at David's place at the table, constituted the dinner. 
               When all were seated, David asked a blessing, which was evidently well pleasing to the hostess. After this, and when David had taken the scope of the provisions by a glance, he records in his journal, that he felt very badly indeed; for it was evident, that this good woman had nothing to spare for a stranger. The old lady, however, helped him to a potato, took one herself, and gave one to Jessie, who, it appeared, was her grand-daughter. She then divided the "dodger" into three parts, and distributed it in the same way, and pressed her guest to eat, which he felt but little inclination to do; but he was too well-bred to manifest any reluctance to share her kind hospitality; and so he tried his best to eat; taking a piece of potato in his mouth, he made an effort to swallow it, but it stuck in his throat, and pertinaciously refused to go any further. These people seemed to be starving as well as himself, and how could he swallow the last morsel they might have for days to come. 
               The old lady watched the expression of his face, and shrewdly read his thoughts. Her own feelings now got beyond her control, and the big tears began to steal silently down her furrowed cheeks. "Young man," said she, "I see you are not willing to share our bit of food; it is true there is very little, but the Lord will provide more; He never suffers us to want long, though sometimes we are sadly pinched as we are now. When you came to the door, and I looked in your face, I knew that you had been sent here; so now don't be afraid of robbing the widow by sharing her three potatoes and her bit of bread." David assured her that he was not at all hungry. 
               The young girl, who was a mere child, seemed to be starving, so she ate her own share and David's too, which she deserved, for the dinner was obtained by her own efforts, she having earned it by picking brush for the nearest neighbor, who was clearing a new potato patch about a mile off. My friend had no occasion to ask this old lady, whose name was Wingfield, whether she had a Bible or not; for the first thing he saw on entering the cabin was a Bible lying on a table. When dinner was concluded, he said to Mrs. Wingfield, "Why did you think I was sent here?" 
               "The reason is very clear to me; whenever I feel that I really need anything, I pray for it, and if my Heavenly Father sees that it is good for me, I always get it. And I have been praying for a long time that some godly man might be sent here, among these wicked people; and I knew you would come, and have been expecting you," answered Mrs. Wingfield. 
               "And do you think I can do any good, now that I am here?" inquired David, 
               "Oh yes," rejoined she, "there are people here who will welcome you, and will be rejoiced to receive the word of life at your hands. I have several neighbors, who have been in the habit of coming to me to have the Scriptures read, and who are longing for the word of eternal life." 
               "Well, my errand here is to try and do good; but where do the people live?" continued he. 
               "Oh," replied the widow, "you will find a great many cabins scattered about over the hills around here, and may God speed you in your good work." 
               David prayed with this good woman, and gave her a copy of Baxter's Saint's Rest, and some tracts. But he writes, that he would have greatly preferred giving her, instead, a bag of meal, and a couple of bacon-hams. I think he would have liked to give both; which he did in reality before the night closed in. After inquiring the way to the farmer's who was rich enough to clear a new potato patch, our friend set off. 
               He found the place without any difficulty, and saw that there was quite a little farm under tolerable cultivation, at which he rejoiced greatly, for he knew that money here, as well as every where else, would procure every thing that was procurable. The thing that David wanted most now, was a place where he might rest and recruit, and where his horse, now fairly ly broken down by hard work and starvation, might recruit also. 
               Our friend stopped at the clearing above mentioned, where the owner and his boys were at work. He led his horse up beside the blazing heap, which the man was diligently feeding with the dry brush the boys were gathering. As David drew near, he stopped work and waited, the boys all standing in a group with their hands in their breeches pockets; and it may be added, that both father and sons were bare-footed, the only difference in their apparel being, that the father wore an old, white felt hat, while the sons had no head gear, except such as mother nature provides for all her children. David spoke to the man in this wise: 
               "My friend, you seem to be in a thriving way here." 
               "Well, yes, I have a plenty, thank God, but if I was as lazy and fond of hunting as my neighbors, I reckon I would be starving, like some of them are," was the answer. 
               "Why, yes, continued David, "some of your neighbors are in a bad way, but the one to whom I allude, cannot well hunt. She lives in the cabin below the hill." 
               "Oh, you mean old Jessie Wingfield; no, she can't hunt, that's true, and her girl has been here at work all the morning." 
               "And how long did she work; she is very young and delicate looking; did she work half a day, do you suppose?" 
               "Well, I reckon she did work nigh upon half a day; she was here afore sun up." 
               "And how much did she earn in that time?" was the next query. 
               "Well, I dun know, I sent her to the house to get her pay from my wife; can't say how much she guv her." 
               "This old lady and her child are starving, I believe; they must have some provisions; now, what can you send?" 
               "Well, I dun know as I can send anything; fact is, sir, I have a large family of my own to feed, and it keeps me up to all I know." 
               "Yes, yes, I am aware of that," said David, taking out a dollar and showing it; "now, think again: I expect to pay for what you send." 
               "Oh, that's a house of another stripe," said the man, his small, grey eyes glistening at the sight of the coin. 
               "Now, tell me how much you will send for this dollar?" 
               "Well, I reckon I can send a bushel of corn meal, that's two and threepence; seven pounds of bacon, that's three and six; that's just what a dollar'll pay for, young man." 
               "And what will you charge for a bushel of potatoes, in addition," inquired David. 
                
               "Well, potatoes is high now, but seein' its you, I'll make 'em, say, at eighteen pence, and that is six pence ha-penny, below the market." 
               "Very well," replied David, handing him a dollar and a quarter, "send one of your boys down to Mrs. Wingfield's with them, but do not let her know how they came to be sent." 
               "Yes, sir, that I'll do," replied the man. 
               But in order to do this, it was necessary to adjourn to the house; while on the way, David informed this man, whose name was Hardy, who he was, and on what mission he had come among the hills. He also inquired, what it would cost, to have his horse well taken care of, for a week." 
               "Well," said Hardy, "times is hard now-a-days, but I spose you'll pay cash?" David answered "yes, unless he would take books," which was all the stock in trade he had. 
               "Well," said Hardy, scratching his head, "I don't know as I have any use for that article; but seein' it's you, and if you pay cash, I reckon I can keep the beast a week, and feed him well for three dollars, and I consider that low." David, on the contrary, considered it decidedly high, for that locality, but he saw no alternative, and therefore accepted the terms, which was the best he could do under the circumstances. He intended to remain in the neighborhood for some time, and he did not wish to incur expense, if it could be avoided; so, having obtained board for his horse, he left his own to the direction of Providence, having acquired a considerable addition of faith in the providing care of his heavenly Father, during these wanderings. 
               Having arrived at the house, Hardy introduced David to his wife, telling her, that this young man had come there with books to sell to the people; and adding, if the folks are too poor to buy, he gives them, "free gratis, for nothing." Mrs. Hardy said she never saw any use in books, for her part; and she thought they did more harm than good. "I'm sure," continued she, "ever since our girls have been runnin' down there to Jessie Wingfield's, tryin' to learn to read, they're not worth the powder that would blow 'em up." 
               "Now, wife, I consider that a very unjust accusation," rejoined her husband. "I consider that our daughters is as fair a specimen of that order of human natur', as is found any where in Randal County; where are they now, wife?" 
               "Bless your soul! they're gone up stairs to fix; and I reckon they'd better a been milkin' the keows." Upon this, Hardy went to the door and beckoned to his wife to come out; which summons she reluctantly obeyed; he then admonished his better half, in very plain terms, reminding her that it was highly improper for her to speak in such terms of their daughters, in the presence of a stranger. All this David overheard, as indeed he could not well help doing; and he began to fear that he had not fallen into the hands of as interesting a family as he might have wished. 
               Presently, the daughters appeared from the upper regions, arrayed in bran new pink calico dresses, flounced with blue cambric, which certainly gave them a gay appearance. They were fine, healthy looking girls, with fat, dimpled arms, and very rosy cheeks, though a little sun-burnt; and David was disposed to agree with Mr. Hardy that these were fair specimens of girls. The oldest, named Susan, seemed to be quite a sensible young woman; she informed David that she would rather have a Bible than any thing else in the world; and that she and her sister had been learning to read at Mrs. Wingfield's. 
                
               David then told her that she should have a Bible; so he gave her one, and also gave one to her sister, whose name was Betty. The girls were greatly pleased, and went to their father and asked him for the money to pay for them. 
               Upon which, that economical person came to David and assured him, that "times was hard, and money scarce," but, if he would take four-and-six for the two Bibles, and take it out in boarding, the girls might keep them, and all would be square. To this proposal, David replied, that the girls should have the Bibles, whether he paid for them or not; that he was commissioned to give the Bible to all who were not able to pay for it; inasmuch as he imagined that he, Mr. Hardy, could very well afford to pay for them, not at four-and six but at one dollar, which was the net cost, and that he had no objections to take it out in boarding. 
               In this settlement, we find that David was more encouraged in his work than he had yet been. The blessing of God upon his labors was more marked, and the results were truly surprising. He spent a month here, holding meetings for worship and instruction at Mrs. Wingfield's every Sabbath. All the young people in the neighborhood, and many of the old and middle aged, were suddenly seized with a desire to learn to read; and David had very little trouble to persuade them to make up a school for Mrs. Wingfield, which, before he left, was in full operation. The text books, it is true, were of various kinds, in this mountain seminary; being composed mainly of such books as David had supplied them with, namely: the Bible, Baxter's Call, James' Anxious Enquirer, Scripture Alphabet of Animals, Pilgrim's Progress, Abbott's Young Christian, etc, etc.-Those were excellent books; but no doubt it was difficult for the teacher. These young mountaineers, however, were so anxious to improve, and so docile, that good Mrs. Wingfield loved the work very much, not only for its own sake; but because it afforded herself and her orphan grand-child a means of subsistence. True, her pay was all in trade, mainly provisions, but that was just what she needed most. That good woman never could understand how that timely aid had happened to arrive the evening after David was there. It seemed that Susan and Betty Hardy had taken the meal, bacon, and potatoes, which David had bought, down to her house themselves. On arriving there, they found no one in the house; and thinking this an excellent chance to surprise the old lady, had emptied the meal into the barrel, hung the bacon on the wall, and turned the potatoes out on the floor-in a heap. Then they shut the door and returned home. 
               Mrs. Wingfield and her grand-daughter meantime, had gone to try and find some food for the morrow. But they were unsuccessful; no one cared to trust so poor a woman, and "Jessie was not worth anything for work; she was too delicate," so the old lady returned home with a sorrowful heart. Just as they reached the house, the child looked up in her face, and said, "Grandma, how long can people live without food?" 
               "Oh, my child, why do you ask that?" 
               "Why, grandma, I'm sure we have nothing to eat, and we had nothing to day, but ever so little, and we had nothing yesterday, and we ain't a going to have anything to-morrow." 
               "Oh my child, we must do as our blessed Saviour says, 'Let the morrow care for itself;' you know the Lord will provide." 
               "I wish He would, then; I saw three ravens flying over our house to-day, and I was sure they had something for us, but they flew away again. I know one of them had something in his claws, but I suppose he took it to somebody else." 
               It was quite dark when they entered the cabin. Mrs. Wingfield, in going to the fire to stir it up, and make a light, stumbled, and fell over the heap of potatoes. 
               "Why, what's this, what's this? my child, here's something." 
               "Why, grandma," said the child, feeling around, "it's potatoes. Oh do hurry, grandma, and make a light, for fear they will run away." 
               "Never fear, child; they wont run away," said the old lady, as she placed a pine-knot in the fire, and blew it with her mouth. 
               When the pine-knot blazed up, sure enough, there was a bushel of potatoes, around which the child capered in great glee; and the old lady, with closed eyes and clasped hands, silently returned thanks. 
                
               Presently, as the fire grew brighter, the child looked up, and spied the bacon; then with dilated eyes, she screamed, "Oh, grandma, look, here's a great piece of bacon." 
               "Well, child, I told you the Lord would provide; you see he has done it, poor miserable old sinner that I am, ever to doubt his goodness." Upon this the child went to her grandmother, and putting her arms around her neck, said, "No, grandma, you're not a miserable old sinner; the Lord don't provide for sinners. You know three men came to Abraham, and they turned out to be angels; and, grandma, I think that young man that was here to-day, must have been an angel; for I am sure he sent the bacon and potatoes." To this the old lady made no reply, but set about preparing some of the food so opportunely and mysteriously sent. The child soon discovered the meal, and this was a new source of wonder and conjecture. 
                
               Mrs. Wingfield always suspected that David was in some way connected with this timely supply; but she never discovered the certainty of it. The next day when he called and she had related the whole story to him, he remarked, that she ought not to be surprised; that it was only a verification of her own words, "The Lord will provide," which no doubt, he would always do. 
               But our Colporteur can seldom wait to reap; he only sows the precious seed; when each family in a district has been visited and prayed with; a tract with its page of precious truth or a volume fraught with religious instruction sold or bestowed gratuitously; or perchance the word of life itself presented, he must depart; he may never return, and may never on earth see the fruits of his labors, "yet shall he not lose his reward." 
               So when we next hear of our friend, he is on his way seeking the benighted, to impart to them the knowledge of the way of life. He had undertaken to explore a range of hills that ran parallel with the river. In some of the cabins he met with a cordial reception, in others, the people were morose and sullen, and sometimes he was refused admittance altogether, In such cases, my friend would slip a tract under the door, or throw one through the window. Such treatment was new to him, and he accounted for it from the fact, that there was a village, not far off, containing not only a tavern, but a distillery. 
               One day he had been peculiarly unfortunate in this respect, having failed to see the inmates of any cabin he had called at, for hours. Night was approaching, and he felt the necessity of looking out for some place where he might sleep, and also find some provender for his horse, who was, to say the least, as hungry and tired as his master. 
                
               The question, "where shall I sleep to-night?" was one that David was often obliged to put to himself; and now he was considering it with great anxiety, when he saw a smoke rising from among a clump of trees, far beneath him on the shore of the river. The road, or rather path that he was on, led off to the left, and quite opposite to the place where he saw the smoke; but he followed it until it led him down to the bank of the river. The path was there quite level, and for some distance unobstructed; but presently he found, that either by the falling in of the underlying rocks, or the washing of the mountain torrents, the track had been completely swept away; and he was literally at the end of his road. What was he to do now? go back, truly he had no place to go to. There he sat on his horse, who was decidedly interested in the fresh spring grass which grew so abundantly just under his nose, so he kept that member close to the ground. Evidently, David was in a fix. On one side was the river, dark, deep and sluggish; to the right was the mountain, steep and rocky; before him a gulf, dark and deep, and behind him the wilderness. He sat there for perhaps half an hour, pondering his unhappy condition, when he saw a canoe shoot out from what seemed to be a little cove, but it was so shut in by rocks, that he could not tell exactly, it being on the same side of the river, that he was on himself. He soon discovered that there was only one person in it, and that was a woman, a very young looking one too, but she rowed well, and was soon so near that he could see her distinctly. The sun was low in the horizon, and his setting beams shone full on her face; so putting up her hand to shade her eyes, she took a long survey of our hero who was startled out of his usual presence of mind by an apparition so sudden and unexpected. 
                
               This, however, was no spirit, but a bona fide damsel, attired in a well-fitting black muslin basque, with wide flowing sleeves, and a sea-green skirt of the same material. Her brown hair hung in natural curls over her neck, and about her face, which was also brown; her cheeks were so red that they might have been compared to a pair of June roses in full bloom. A brown straw hat, trimmed with green ribbon, lay in the bottom of the canoe. There she stood, with her hand shading a pair of very sparkling brown eyes; her open sleeve falling back, and exposing a pretty plump arm, bare almost to the shoulder. 
               I have said that David was startled out of his presence of mind. So he was; but he had no romance in his nature, and had never heard of the "Lady of The Lake," in his life. So, after a moment's consideration, he only said, "Good evening, Miss." The lady of the canoe dropped her left hand, and put up her right; then she said in a tone of disappointment, 
               "Why, I took you for my brother Jeems." 
               "Did you? and were you going to row your brother Jeems up the river, out of this inhospitable place, and give him a house to sleep in, as well as some supper? If you were, I wish you would imagine still that I am your brother Jeems, for I am sadly in want of all these things." 
               "Oh, I couldn't well do that, for my brother Jeems is horrid ugly, and you,"-then checking herself very suddenly, she said, "Did any one ever tell you, you were good looking?" 
               "Oh, yes," replied David, "my mother thinks me very handsome, and she has often told me so." 
               "Pshaw; your mother, of course she thinks you're handsome. Now there's my mother, she thinks brother Jeems is beautiful, and every body else thinks him horrid; but did any one else ever tell you, you were good looking?" 
               "No, I think not. I have no recollection of ever being so flattered, except by my mother. Now did ever any one tell you, you were pretty?" 
               "Oh, lots of 'em, they're always telling me that. Now I'll warrant, that if I row you up to the landing, and it's not more than fifty yards, you'll tell me that a dozen times." 
               "I'm not so sure about that; my mother used to tell me that 'pretty is, that pretty does.' Can I get across in your canoe?" 
               "Well, if I take you, what will you do with your horse? I can't row him in the canoe." 
               "No, not conveniently; is there no ford at all in this river?" 
               "Oh yes, plenty of 'em. There's one not more than ten, miles below, but, do you jump in, and I'll send uncle Tom for the horse." 
                
               "But where are you going to take me to, and who is there?" inquired David, his habitual fear of young ladies returning with unusual force. 
               "Good gracious me; I'm going to take you to my castle, and there eat you up. I'm Blue Beard." 
               David had hitherto maintained his gravity, but this was a trifle more than he could stand, so he indulged in a laugh in a small way. Though a novice in the ways of the world, he knew that this nymph of the river, was no native of these wilds. 
               "So you can laugh, can you? well, are you going? decide quick, for I must be off." 
               David, who had been standing with the reins in his hand, now, seeing no alternative, threw them over the limb of a fallen tree, and stepping into the canoe, inquired where he should row. "Up there, into that cove," said she; and in ten minutes they were in the cove, and at the shore. The lady now sprang out, saying, "now fasten the canoe to that tree, and follow me." 
               She flew up the woodlawn path with the speed of an antelope, and it was as much as David could do to keep in sight of her; at length he reached the top of the hill, and found that he was on the outskirts of a farm, with the usual accompaniments, namely: a dwelling house, barn, garden and orchards, all looking very comfortable and homelike; this did not surprise David in the least, for he knew the character of the country. As soon as his guide had reached the main road, which seemed to run through the center of the farm, she waited till he came up. A lane led across to the house from where she stood, a distance of perhaps half a mile. When David reached her, she thus accosted him, "Now remember, that I didn't bring you up the river in a canoe; for if my brother Jeems should find it out he might fire a pistol at you, which would not be pleasant, particularly if it should contain a bullet. But do you stay here, and I will send uncle Tom round for your horse. Then you must mount, ride up to the house and ask for lodgings, and remember too, that you never saw me before in your life; wont that be good fun?" 
               David replied to this, "That he thought it would be bad fun, inasmuch as it would involve a great falsehood, and that he must beg to be excused from participating in it, as he could in no wise purchase a night's lodging at such an expense." 
               "Oh," said she, "you're a methodist preacher, I thought so all the time." 
               "No, miss," answered David, "I'm neither a methodist, nor a preacher. I thank you very much for your kindness, and will wait here for my horse; so good night." The young lady opened her brown eyes very wide at his answer, but made no reply; she only shrugged her shoulders and then sped away to the house. 
               In about an hour uncle Tom arrived with the horse, and David, after giving him a quarter, inquired if there was any place within reasonable distance, where he could get 
                     accomodations
                     accommodations
                   for the night. The negro directed him to a house three miles further up the road, and there David went. 
               He found a good old couple here, who had heard of him through the brother of Mrs. Montague, who was the owner of the place below. They were rejoiced to meet him, and extended every kindness to him in their power. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               And What Came of It. 
               IN the morning, my friend, before setting out again into the mountains, felt that it was incumbent on him to call on Mr. Bolden, the brother of Mrs. Montague, whom he had met at that lady's house, and who had earnestly desired him to do so when he was in his neighborhood, holding out the inducement that there was a good supply of books and tracts there, which had been left by a Colporteur the year before, and which ought to be put into circulation. 
                
               Mr. Bolden expressed great pleasure at meeting David, and pressed him to stay over Sunday, as that was Saturday. The latter, however, assured him with many thanks that his business was among the destitute in the mountains, and not with those who, like himself, were favored with the light of the Gospel, and with the stated means of grace. On examining the box he found a full assortment of books, tracts and Bibles, which he looked on as providential, for his stock was getting low, and he had been much perplexed, as to how he should renew it. 
               David had been completely lost for the past week, and he was rather astonished when he found that he had travelled all those intersecting spurs, and arrived in the regions of civilization on the other side. When the saddle-bags, which contained forty dollars worth of books, were replenished, David rejoined Mr. Bolden, who introduced him to his family, among whom, were Miss Clara St. Hugar, the lady of the canoe, who was a ward of Mr. Bolden, and the veritable "brother Jeems," of whom he had heard so much. 
               David felt very grateful to Miss Clara, for her kindness the evening before, and had no scruples of conscience, under present circumstances, in keeping her secret. She showed no disposition however, to renew the acquaintance, but contented herself with casting an occasional glance at the handsome stranger, which he was obtuse enough not to understand as meaning any thing, but which in reality meant a great deal. 
               After dinner, Jeems, whom David thought rather supercilious, took his horse, saying that he was going to attend court at West Moreton. David also, was ready to leave, and bidding farewell to his worthy host and his family, except Miss Clara, who was invisible, he set off for the hills. He had about five miles of excellent graded road, before he turned off into the mountains, and he was anxious to make the most of it, as good roads were such a variety to him. So he kept up a good, round pace; thinking the while, that these last two days were the most barren of any good results, of any that he had passed since his first setting out to labor in the vineyard of the Lord, when just as he reached an intersecting road, he was met by Miss Clara, mounted on a spirited chestnut pony, and looking her prettiest, in a blue velvet riding habit, and a jaunty little hat and feathers; she thus accosted him, "Mr. Woodburn, I hope you wont think me very bold, because I took the liberty of meeting you here?" David who was blest with an innocent, unsuspecting mind, was perfectly sincere, when he replied, 
               "Why should I, Miss. You certainly have a right to go wherever your business calls you." 
               "Yes, just so, and where is your business leading you?" 
               "Oh, I turn off into the hills, a mile or two up here." 
               "And where do you live, I mean when you are at home?" 
               "I live about twenty miles beyond Fall Mountain." 
               "And will you ever be back here?" 
               "I don't know, perhaps I may; why do you ask that?" 
               "Oh, because I'm a great simpleton. I know you think me very impudent." 
               "Then you had better turn and ride home; in that case I shall change my opinion." 
               "Oh, you do think I'm impudent, and I am so miserable, and have nobody to speak to," and here the young lady took out a very fine cambric pocket handkerchief and wiped her eyes, upon which David was taken quite aback. There was one thing of which he had an unmitigated horror, and that was a woman in tears. He contemplated this one for a few moments with great commiseration, and then he spoke saying, "What are you crying for, what makes you miserable?" 
               "Why, I am shut up here in this out-the way-place, and I never meet any body that I care about, and my aunt scolds me, and my uncle wont let me go back to Carolton, and I know you think me a fool, but if you only knew my history, you would pity me;" and here the tears began to flow afresh, and the cambric was again in requisition. 
               "I can't see what good it would do for me to know your history. Perhaps your miseries are in your own mind, as much as any where else. You seem to have a pleasant home with Mr. Bolden, who is a good man, and I don't see as I can be of any service to you." 
                
               This matter of fact manner, did not seem to chime in with Clara's mood; she began to suspect that this knight-errant was not the one of her dreams. They rode on for some two-hundred yards; David at last broke the silence by speaking in a plain way, advising the young lady to return home and try to be contented with her lot, which seemed to be a happy one; she had youth, health and wealth; that with all these in her possession, much would be required of her by the Great Giver of all good; that she had the poor, and the ignorant at her door: let her relieve their necessities and instruct them in the way to heaven; and that by all means she should try to find her own way there; and in order to do this, she must study her Bible, and follow its teachings. That the great end of life is to glorify God, and to prepare to meet him in peace at the end. All this he said, and a great deal more; and then he wound up the exhortation by begging her to accept a copy of "Baxter's Call," adding, that the reading of this little book had been blessed to his own conversion, and that if she would only promise to give it prayerful perusal, he would leave her, indulging the delightful hope, that it might be blessed in a similar way to herself. His manner was so affectionate and kind, and he begged her so earnestly to read the book, that she could not refuse, so she gave the promise. Having now reached the road that led off, they parted, David turning into the forest, after saying good bye, and Clara returned home. 
               The reader may have discovered, that this was a romantic young lady; one of the class who read novels. Had David been familiar with that species of literature, he might have classed her with the Di Vernon school. As it was, he only set her down, as a young maiden whose brain was a little turned, from some cause beyond his comprehension. 
               The truth was, that David would have liked very much to learn her history, but he felt that he was on dangerous ground, and wisely concluded that the sooner his acquaintance with this bewitching young damsel was ended, the better it would be for his own peace of mind, and the success of the work he had in hand. Her story as he had it from Mrs. Montague, long afterward, was simply this. 
               Her father died while she was yet an infant, leaving a fine estate to be divided between her and her brother. The mother, in less than a year, married a second husband, and Clara was left entirely to the care of her guardian; she was brought up at a fashionable boarding school where her taste for novel reading had been indulged, together with all her other whims, and of course she was well spoiled. On coming to reside with her guardian, novel reading was her darling employment, until she almost lived in dream-land. She had already had several romantic adventures according to her estimate, and she was looking out for more, so that this adventure with the canoe was rather to her taste. She had very little trouble to persuade herself that this was some young gentleman of wealth and high standing in disguise, who had been drawn thither by the report of her charms, and she was rather unwilling the vail should be lifted. 
               The result of all this was rather remarkable. Miss St. Hugar was deeply impressed by David's earnest appeals to her heart and conscience, and as she rode slowly homewards, she reverted in thought to all that he had said; finally she opened the little volume so full of pungent truth, that he had begged her to read. The first sentence took hold of her attention tention; she read till she arrived at home, then she retired to her room and finished the perusal. Her conscience was aroused, and she became terribly awake to her danger as a sinner, under the wrath of God. After months of darkness and doubt, she found peace in believing. 
               This lady still lives, a consistent and highly useful member of the church. She married young, and is the mother of several daughters, not one of whom have ever read a novel with her knowledge or permission. Nor does she hesitate to give her opinion of the sin and folly of indiscriminate novel reading, or of its deleterious effects on the minds of the young. 
               We must now return to David, who pursued his way along the mountain road, without meeting any living thing, except the squirrels, who seemed to have turned out in such abundance, that for aught he knew, they were holding a gala this fine day; but they scampered off as he approached, and peeped at him, with their bright eyes, from among the green foliage. 
               An enormous bear showed more disposition to cultivate his acquaintance, for he seated himself on his haunches in the middle of the road, and waited patiently for the traveller to come up. David wished earnestly for a gun just at that moment, but as an implement of that kind was not within his reach, he contented himself with crying, "shoo, shoo," which Bruin only deigned to notice by a tremendous growl, showing at the same time a formidable row of teeth. Finding that this did not move his adversary, David rode nearer to him, and breaking a dead limb from a tree, struck the foe with all his might. Bruin, not liking this treatment, now took to the woods as fast as his feet could carry him, leaving David master of the field. 
               After this adventure, our hero met with nothing worthy of note, till he overtook a group of children, who all had their heads together, looking down into a hollow stump. David inquired what they were looking at down there. Upon which they all looked up, and the oldest one declared that they were looking at the witches. "And why do you think there are witches in the stump?" inquired David. "Oh, because here is the butter they churned last night." "That is nothing but a thing that grows on rotten wood, and there are no witches, or if there are, they don't make that," was the answer. "Oh, yes there is witches," returned the child, "and daddy read to us in the Bible last night, about a witch that made a dead man come up out of the ground." "Well, I am glad to hear that your father has a Bible and reads it," replied he, "but you must remember, that witches can do nothing, unless God chooses to permit them." David now rode up to the cabin, and a woman met him at the door and invited him in, with many apologies for her appearance; giving as a reason, that she had been washing that day, and was just going to iron; that she never washed on a Saturday before in her life; but she had been away, staying with her husband's mother who was very sick, and she believed going to die; she was going on to give a lengthy account of every thing concerning herself and friends, when David interposed, "My good woman, I have only a few moments to stay. I would like to read a chapter, end talk a little and pray with you and your children. Will you bring your Bible?" 
               "Yes, indeed," resumed she, "I'll do that;" so saying, she dived down into the bottom of a chest, and brought up a Bible and a book in paper covers, both folded neatly in a towel. "This Bible," said she, "is the greatest comfort to me and John, of anything else in the world; for we have had nothing but good luck ever since it came into the house; and that is the reason I am so keerful of it. John, that's my husband, used to do nothing but drink and hunt, and go to shootin' matches; and me and the childer was nearly starved; and he was desperate bad when he was tight, and used to beat us cruel. But one day a good man came along; he looked like you, only he wasn't nigh so tall, and he had black eyes, and yourn is blue; and his hair was sort o' black and grizzled, and yourn's brown and sort o' curly like; only for that, he'd a been exactly like you; and he guv John a book," here she produced the Temperance Manual, "and this Bible; and John he was laid by with the rheumatiz all that winter, and coz he couldn't work, he tuck to readin'; and after awhile sez he to me, sez he, 'Marthy, I'm a wicked wretch, to be livin' the way. I do, and if ever I get well, I'll do better.' And he got well, but it was a hard pull; and nary a drap of liquor has he swallowed since, and he used to be drunk all the time." 
               Though this prolix narrative tried David's patience sadly, he sympathized with the good woman too much, to show any impatience under its infliction. He gave her the Sabbath Manual, and some tracts to the children, and then after having read and prayed with them, he bade them farewell and departed. 
               The woman had begged him to stop that night at the house of her husband's mother, who was sick; this was six miles further up the road. For the first three miles he met no one; but after that, he encountered so many men carrying guns, that he determined to inquire the reason of the next one he should meet. On doing this, he discovered that there was to be a great shooting match the next day. This intelligence was anything but pleasant to my friend, who foresaw difficulties in his way from it, and probable frustration of his plans for the Sabbath. Presently he accosted another man, who was hurrying on with a gun on his shoulder, with the same question, "Why, there's a great shootin' match to come off up at the widow Simpson's to-morrow," replied he. 
               "But to-morrow is the Lord's day; surely you will not do so wicked a thing," returned David. 
               "No matter whose day it is, there's to be a shootin' match all the same." "And how far is it to widow Simpson's?" inquired David. "Well, I reckon it's nigh about five miles from here, and there's nary a man in ten miles round but 'll be there, at that shootin'; and Tom Simpson is to put up a barrel o' whiskey, and there's nary a man but 'll be as drunk as blazes." 
               With this information for his comfort, David pursued his journey. On arriving at his place of destination, he found it a poor looking cabin. A woman met him at the door, of whom he inquired if he could obtain entertainment for himself and horse; she answered no, that the mother of the family was lying very ill, and they could not take any one in. "But," said David, "I must stay; you wont turn me out in the woods to sleep, will you?" Upon this the woman went into the house, and presently a man came out. This man who was no other than the husband of the communicative female, who had entertained David that afternoon, was very friendly; invited him into the house, and took his horse by the bridle to lead him away; but David preferred to accompany him, and to see that the horse was properly cared for. While attending to this, he informed David that his name was John Miller, and that his mother was in a dreadful way, that she was going to die, and that she was not willing to die; "and," added John, "I know she is not prepared; and I thought as how, maybe, you are a minister." To this David replied that he was not a minister, but still he would be glad to pray with a departing soul. John then brought him to Mrs. Miller's bedside. The room was quite crowded with people, and very close. David turned to Miller, and told him to send all these people out; and then to open the windows and doors, and every where else that air could enter. The poor woman now revived; she was terribly frightened at the thought of dying and meeting an angry God; this was all she knew, except that she was a great sinner, and totally unprepared for death. 
               David spent the night at the bedside of this dying woman. Her mind was perfectly clear and she grasped at the offers of salvation through a crucified Saviour with astonishing quickness. She had a confused idea of the plan of salvation; but now that all was made clear, how her heart rejoiced. She lived a week after this; my friend was at her bedside when she departed; he said that this was the only case of death-bed repentance that he had ever witnessed, of which he had not a doubt of its genuineness. 
               This was not the only case of conversion, that attended the visit of the missionary to that mountain cabin. The crowd which filled the little apartment on his entrance, stood at the open windows and lingered round the door, listening to words so new and strange. 
               Early in the following morning, David stood in the door, and preached Christ and him crucified, to quite a little congregation assembled in the yard; after which, he distributed tracts; many could not read, but those assured him that such and such a one would read the tracts to them. 
                
               John Miller, who had been a habitual drunkard, and was reformed by the reading of the Temperance Manual, dated his conversion from this night. His subsequent course showed that the change was genuine, for he commenced a Sabbath school immediately, and at the earnest solicitation of his neighbors, a day school, where nothing except reading was taught. 
               Over all this field, the Sunday school was the precursor of the church, and in two years from that time a church was organized in that neighborhood, which though weak at first, is now flourishing; but it is not the intention of the writer to give results, as it would swell this work beyond reasonable limits. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               The Great Shooting Match. 
               DAVID had made up his mind to attend the shooting match that day. On making this resolution known to John Miller, he proposed to accompany him, as some difficulties might arise and that in case of anything 
                     occuring
                     occurring
                  , he would stand by him. On arriving at the ground they found quite a concourse of people. A great variety of things were on exhibition, as prizes to be shot for. There were fawns, hares, squirrels, mocking-birds, turkeys and chickens, besides a quantity of calico, hand-kerchiefs of gay colors, penknives, tobacco, and whiskey. David attracted much attention among this rude and motley crowd. "Stranger," said one, "where's yer gun?" another inquired what he was doing there, &c. David made civil replies to all these interrogatories; and when every thing was arranged for the shooting to begin, he mounted the stump of a large tree that had been cut square off for the purpose, perhaps, of a table, as it stood immediately in front of the house of widow Simpson's; and then spoke as follows. 
               "My friends, I am glad to meet so many of you on this beautiful Sabbath morning, and now if you will listen, I would like to talk a little while to you, before you begin your sport." Upon this, some groaned, others hissed, and others cried, "fair play, let him speak;" and some cried out "go ahead, stranger;" but on the 
                   
                     "HE MOUNTED THE STUMP OF A LARGE TREE." Page 256. 
                  
                  
                   whole, there was so much confusion, that David concluded to change his tactics; so he sang in loud, clear tones which rang like a trumpet call through the hills, the hymn beginning 
                      
                        "This is the day the Lord hath made, 
                        He calls the hours His own." 
                     
                  
                
               By the time this hymn was sung, the company was greatly increased by new comers and stragglers, who were attracted by the novelty of the scene, and no doubt partly by my friend's voice, who, though he had never read Shakespeare, was aware, that 
                     "Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast."
                  
                
               There was now a universal cry for another song; David then sang the hymn, beginning with, 
                     "Lo! on a narrow neck of land."
                  
                   As this is rather a long hymn, some of the outsiders grew impatient ere it was finished, and my friend was greeted with a shower of acorns, one of which, struck him in the eye. On seeing this John Miller mounted the stump beside him, and addressed the crowd. Baring his arm to the elbow, and showing a huge mass of muscle and brawn, "now, men, here I stand by this young man; I take his part, and you all know John Miller; all I have to say is, fair play, and no more acorns." To this there was a general shout of 
                     acquiesence
                     acquiescence
                  ; "fair play," resounded on all sides, some calling loudly the while, for another song; this last demand became so general, that David, though he had not come there to sing all the time, by any means, thought it most prudent to comply; so he sang the hymn beginning, 
                      
                        "Stop, poor sinner, stop and think 
                        Before you farther go;" 
                     
                  
                   before he had finished the concluding stanza, my friend saw that he had made a decided impression on his rude hearers, and hastened to improve the moment so precious to his purpose. 
               Whether from design or accident, most probably the latter, the ground selected for the sport, was a spot that would have challenged the scrutiny of an artist. It was a sort of amphitheatre, shut in on all sides, but one, by a semicircular range of low hills, wooded to their summits, and from which many little rivulets flowed down, and uniting formed a stream of some magnitude, which rippled and sparkled over its rocky bed, and at last flowed out through the gorge and was lost in the darkness of the forest. Thin columns of blue smoke were seen ascending here and there, from the dense masses of foliage, showing where the cabin of the settler nestled under the overhanging boughs. And then over all this wild woodland land landscape, were spread the soft sky and sunshine of an early morning in June, the sweetest month in the year. 
               David always insisted that there was some subduing influence abroad that morning besides his music. Certainly those rocks and hills had never reverberated to the songs of Zion before, and the ears of the wild spirits around him had never drunk in such sounds. Immediately on closing the last stanza, 
                      
                        "Rocks and mountains on us fall 
                        And hides us from His face," 
                     
                   he pointed upwards to the sun, crying out, "Look, my friends; who made that glorious sun? who stretched out that blue sky? who calls up the clouds, and causes them to pour down showers of rain to water the thirsty ground? Who sends those streams of water that leap and sparkle down your hill-sides? Whose voice is heard in the thunder? and whose smile is seen in the sunshine? Who gives you life and health, food and clothing? It is God your Maker. Is there a God? Is there one among you who doubts it?" Here a multitude of voices cried out, "No, no." "Then," cried the speaker in tones that rang far over the hills, "How dare you break his laws? What day is this?" All those who were not too dismayed to speak, now cried, "'tis Sunday." 
               "Yes, it is God's holy Sabbath; that is the name that God your Maker gave it; from amid thunderings and lightenings and fire and smoke, and the peals of a trumpet, the voice of God sounded louder than all these, saying, 'Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God.' This is one of God's laws. If you break one of the laws of your State or country, you expect to be punished. If you steal, or commit murder, or even maim one of your neighbor's cattle, the sheriff comes and takes you to jail, and you are tried in court, and if the jury find you guilty, you are punished according to your crime and its deserts. Do you suppose that God who is the great Ruler and Lawgiver of the Universe, can be less righteous than man, your fellow worm, who frames laws to govern society, and when they are broken exacts the penalty? Think you that God will not exact the penalty for His broken laws? Most assuredly He will; and the men and women who have collected here to-day for the double purpose of shooting at a mark, and winning prizes thereby, are not only breaking the laws of God, for which, unless they repent, they are doomed to eternal death, but they are breaking the laws of their country, which forbid all such doings on the Lord's day." 
                
               This last assertion seemed to cap the climax; the crowd gathered in a dense mass around the speaker. Rifles were lowered from the shoulder, the stocks resting on the ground, hats and caps were removed; and as David scanned the panic-stricken, upturned faces beneath him, he knew that his warning words had made a deep impression; and he strove to deepen it, by using every additional argument that he thought might be effectual to minds so untutored. He continued his address for half an hour, and then closed by a prayer, that was, perhaps more impressive than all that had preceded it. 
               After this, he invited all who could read, to come and receive a tract; on this, about twenty came forward. David intended to distribute tracts generally among them, and only resorted to this plan, in order to ascertain how many among them could read. He then begged them earnestly to postpone the shooting till after the Sabbath was over. Upon this, there was much discussion, many angry words, and some threats. The discontented party had collected in a group by themselves. Miller was there among them, evidently, much in earnest, and with his "hands full," as he expressed it, to prevent them from attacking the minister as they all called David. The remainder were scattered about under the trees, listening to others who were reading the tracts in stentorian tones. 
               Presently, Miller ascended the stump, and announced his intention of making a speech. Miller had often been to court at Spruceville, the county seat, and so he knew something of speech-making. Having waited till his audience had gathered round him, and become still, he began: 
               "Friends an' fellow citizens,-You all knows, as how I'm not a man as is up to speech-making, an' I may say' as how I never made a speech in my life, an' more, I don't see as how I can make one now. Friends an' countrymen, I will come to the pint at wonst, you all knows that I, that is me, John Miller, used to be a drunken sot." Here a hundred voices cried out, ("That's so, and yes, yes, we know that, go on, go on.") "Yes, my beloved brethring an' sisters, I were a miserable drunkard, I beat my poor wife, and I beat my chilen, an' wuss, I starved 'em;" (here groans and hisses were loud and deep.) "Brethring, hear me out, I'm not a going to transpose on yer time." ("Go on," and hisses from the disaffected.) "Well, you all know that I, John Miller, has not been tight for more'n a year; an' more, has never tuck a drap of liquor; an' more-" here the speaker was interrupted by cries of, ("That's so, how did it happen John?") Then he took out the little Temperance Manual, well thumbed and soiled; "I tell you friends, it all come of my readin' of this here book; an' this here other book," here he produced the Bible; "an' that's the whole secret. Now I'd advise ye all to read 'em both, an' them as can't read, let 'em learn; an' if they does you as much, good as they done me, it will be a blessin' to this here settlement for ever an' ever, amen. Friends an fellow countrymen, I have only just one word, more to say," here the speaker pointed to David, "I believe by the grace of God, an' that young man, I have got religion. I feel it in my soul, an' it's my opinion an' belief, that God sent him here to do us good. I've hearn threats agin him, from some as is here this morning; an' them's the ones I mean, when I say, that if a har of his head comes to harm at their hands, woe be to them as done it. I'll foller that man to the yends of yearth, I will; an' he'll find that if the grace of God has tooken the wild cat outen John Miller's heart, he's never the coward that'll stand by an' see a man wronged that sot by the bedside his dyin' mother the long night through, an' prayed for her departed soul, an' you all knows at when I speaks, I means just what I says." 
               Having closed his oration, John descended from his elevated position, and mixed with the crowd. His words were true; he had been the bully and the terror of the settlement for years, and no one ever dared to contradict, or molest him in any way; and it was well for our young missionary, that he had such a champion, otherwise his life would have most probably have paid the forfeit of his temerity in presuming to interfere with the day's diversion; and even now that the majority were in favor of postponing them to a week day, Miller was in a sad quandary. Of an open attack he had no fear; it how to get David off the field, to use his own expression, "put him to all he knew." There were men there whose worst passions were excited by the interference with the day's sports; men, who, though too cowardly to make an open attack, would not hesitate to send a bullet with deadly aim in the darkness of the forest. 
               Miller expressed his fears to David, who smiled at them, saying, "Never mind, my friend, I don't think my time has come, and I shan't be shot from behind a tree, yet awhile. I am now going to the woods to take a nap, and if you can induce those people to stay, I will preach them another sermon, not on the law, bat the Gospel. When David had selected a proper place and dropped asleep, which he did in less than five minutes, John detailed three trusty men to mount guard over him, and then set himself to entertain the assembly, which he succeeded very well in doing. He read several tracts to them; then he read the nineteenth and twentieth chapters of Exodus, 
                     th
                     the
                   fifth of Deuteronomy, and the second and fifth of Mathew's Gospel, in the midst of much questioning and many curious remarks from his auditors. Then they had refreshments spread upon the grass, when the missionary was awakened, and invited to partake. When this was over, David read the ninth chapter of Luke, commenting on it as he read; this, with prayer and singing, rendered the service somewhat more like religious worship than that held in the morning. 
               The disaffected party, who were only a few persons, had left the ground. When David was about to leave, all crowded around, begging him to visit them at their cabins, which he promised to do; he also appointed a meeting for the next Sabbath at that place, by their earnest request. He intended to spend the night at a cabin about three miles distant, with a man who insisted very much on his doing so. Before parting with Miller, he took the names of all those men who had threatened his life. The first visits he made were to these men, and not without success either, for he so won over their rough natures by his kind and gentle manner, that they became his staunch supporters while he remained in the settlement, and some of them were among the many who professed to have passed from death unto life, under his ministrations. The results of that tour were truly wonderful. Here Sunday schools were commenced before he left, and several day schools, in the course of the summer and fall, and more than one school dates its origin from that time. 
               David had, while visiting in this settlement, employed John Miller to go to Mr. Bolder's for a fresh supply of books. He had, what he considered sidered, the most difficult part of his mission yet to perform. He wished to visit the lumbermen on the Back Fork of Fall River, a community living totally isolated from the rest of the world. This stream pours along between two high mountains, clothed with heavy timber to their summits. The immense trees are cut down, trimmed for transportation, and then being rolled down the mountain sides, are formed into rafts, and floated down to where Fall River enters the Great Kanawissa. 
               The only way to reach these people is by boating up the river; and as it is both deep and rapid, navigation is difficult, and dangerous. My friend looked forward to this visit with intense interest, and viewed it as one of the most important he had yet to make. 
               The last Sabbath that he spent in the region where he then was, he describes as truly affecting. All the people in the settlement had assembled sembled to meet him on the same ground, where six weeks before he had taken such a decided stand against their Sunday amusements. But there was a marked change in their bearing, and behaviour; during divine service all were quiet, subdued, and decorous. The men had brought their guns, but they were stacked outside of the place appropriated for worship. There, in the shade of the deep forest, that long July day was passed in religious instruction, exhortation, prayer and praise. Many tears were shed when the missionary bade farewell, and many blessings were invoked on his head. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               An Odd Species of Game. 
               ON Monday morning, early, my friend set off on his journey through the mountains. He encountered many hardships on his way to the Back Fork of Fall River, and met with more ignorance and destitution, if possible, that he had ever before witnessed. 
               On one occasion he met a youth of about his own age, who was hunting; he walked along by the side of David, who was leading his horse, and becoming quite communicative, related some wonderful exploits of his own, in the way of sharp shooting. David, in order to keep up the conversation, related the story of William Tell, saying that he was also a sharp shooter and mountaineer. "Oh," said the boy, "I can do that too," and picking up a pine cone, he insisted on placing it on David's head, as a mark for him to shoot at. David declined to let him test his skill in this way, whereupon the youth called him a coward. David then set the cone on the top of a stump, and desired him to take that for a target. The boy took aim and fired, hitting the stump just below the cone. "Now," said David, "supposing that had been on my head, instead of the stump, what would you have done?" "Why," repled the youth, looking foolish, "golly, I'd a gone mad, I would. I know a man as killed another, it was his own brother, too, and he wont go out after night, he's so afraid of his brother's ghost." David then related the story of Cain and Abel, and asked if there were any Bibles among the people about there? 
               "No, not many. I've seen 'em often though, but I never could get a shot at one, answered he of the rifle. 
               "Why, I spoke of the Bible," said David. 
               "Well, I know you did; I heerd ye. I say I seen 'em often an' over again, sittin' on the trees, but I never had a shot at one," was the reply. 
               "Can you tell me who made you?" 
               "Yes, I know that well enough, it was God that made me." 
               "Then the Bible is a book that God gave us, to tell us about himself, and what He wished us to do." 
               "Well, I never! when did He guv it to you? how long have you had it?" 
                
               "It has been in the world some thousands of years." 
               "Oh jim-crack-corn, what a lick! If God did guv such a book, what's the reason all the folks hasn't got it? did you ever see it? If I had a book that God sent, wouldn't I run about and tell all the folks, an' not keep it all to myself? When I'm out in the woods a huntin' an' see so many curus things, an' when I looks up into the sky an' sees the sun, an' at night when the stars is blinkin' up there, I often wonders what the reason God never tells us nothin' about hisself." 
               "My friend, God speaks to you and me in all these things, but he has also given us a book to show us the way to himself, and here it is. Can you read?" 
               "Lookee here, boy, don't be a foolin' this chile; is it true what you say? honor bright, now." 
                
               "Yes, it is true; can you read?" 
               "Well, yes, I can read a little." 
               "How did you learn to read?" 
               "Why, some fellows from Lynchburg, comes up here to hunt every fall, an' I goes with 'em sometimes, an' I helps 'em about the camp, an' one of 'em he teach me how to read, and guv me a book." 
               "What was the name of the book he gave you?" 
               "Well, its the 'Revised Code.' I reckon he's a lawyer." 
               David began to think that the "Revised Code," was on the whole, a useful book in the mountains; he took out a Bible, and offering it to the youth, said, "Here is the word of God, you will find it more instructive than the Revised Code." But the youth did not offer to take the book; he stood looking at it with an awe-struck expression on his face. 
                
               "Why don't you take it, my friend?" inquired David. 
               "Well, if it is as you say the word of God, I don't know as I ought to tech it, I'm not fit," answered the poor boy. 
               "You need not be the least afraid to take it, and read it, for the life of your soul." After much reasoning and persuasion, he took the Bible, and here they parted. When David reached a turn in the road, he looked back and saw the youth sitting at the root of a tree, scanning the sacred pages. Who would not wish to know the result of that gift to the mountain hunter. 
               Another time, he stopped at a cabin, which seemed to have been newly built; it stood on the edge of a field of corn, and near the road. When he entered, no one was there, except a baby, which was curled up in a blanket in a bark cradle. David sat down and noted the furniture of the room, a bed, clean and neat; three stools; a board nailed against the wall, and resting on two feet, for a table; a little shelf containing a few cups and saucers, and plates. There was no glass in the window, which was formed by sawing off one of the logs, leaving an opening of perhaps three feet in length. Presently the baby stirred, and David began to rock the cradle; he was thus employed, when a very pretty young woman entered, who started back in surprise when she saw him. David told her who he was, and that he was in great need of food, as also was his horse. The poor woman began to weep, declaring that she had no food in the house for herself, that she had been alone there, for three weeks, day and night, and that if it were not for Mrs. Slatterly, down at the foot of the mountain, she would have died of starvation. This was a sad tale, and David, who pitied her very much, asked if she were a widow. No, but she might better be one, for her husband was never at home; he was out on a spree, now, and had taken all the vegetables out of her little garden, as well as some of her clothes, all her school books and her Bible, which was worst of all, and traded them off for whiskey. Then she wrung her hands in a despairing kind of way, declaring that if it were not for her baby, she would rather die than live. The poor girl told a sad tale of blighted prospects. Her father was a wealthy planter, in one of the lower counties. She had married this fellow against his consent; and being stern and inflexible, he never forgave his daughter for this act of disobedience, but banished and disowned her entirely. She wound up this terrible history by showing the marks of cuts and bruises on her arms and face, where her husband had beaten her. David could do little to comfort this poor creature, so he prayed with her, and gave her a Bible, advising her to keep it concealed from her husband. 
               He was obliged to go on without any refreshment, until he arrived at Mrs. Slatterly's, which lady had a fine farm, and lived in abundance, and here David fared sumptuously. Mrs. Slatterly kept a sort of inn for travellers, and as David asked a blessing at the table, she took him for a minister, and treated him with marked attention and respect. Next morning when he called for his bill, she told him that she never charged ministers anything, but would he be so good as to christen her children; and without waiting for a reply, led the way into the parlor, and presented him to six little girls, informing him that these were three pairs of twins. The oldest were eight years old, and as much alike as two peas; they were dressed in blue calico frocks, and white aprons, The second pair were six years old, and looked precisely alike also; they wore green calico frocks and white aprons. The other pair were four years old, and no one could tell them apart; they wore pink calico dresses and white aprons. When David heard the petition of the mother, and beheld this three-fold chain of twins, he was lost for a moment in astonishment, confusion and curiosity, all jumbled together, so he stood and surveyed them, blue, pink and green, in a state of mind not at all clear. The good woman was so accustomed to this effect of the sight of her three braces of twins, on the minds of strangers, that she took his silence as a matter of course. The little ones, too, were so accustomed to be on exhibition, that they stood quietly with folded hands, and downcast eyes. When Mrs. Slatterly thought that sufficient time had been granted for admiration, she broke the silence. 
                
               "Well, which do you think the prettiest?" 
               "Why, I think the two with the brown eyes, and curly heads, the prettiest." 
               "That's just what Slatterly says; he's dreadful proud of 'em all though, and now, if you'll please to christen 'em, you see mister, there's not been a minister round here for five years, an' more." 
               "My dear madam, I should be glad to oblige you; but, I'm not a minister." 
               "Oh, now don't you try to come that kind of talk over me, I know you are a minister; you just act like one, and you look one; come now, you must christen the children." 
               "No, madam, I can't do it; I have no authority." 
               "What authority do you want? you can christen 'em, and nobody'll know anything about it. It's not a penitentiary offence, is it?" 
                
               "Oh no, it has nothing to do with civil law; but no one can baptize, except an ordained minister." 
               "Good gracious! I don't see any difference; I don't want the children dipped, I want 'em christened. I'm no water Baptist, I cling to the Presbyterians, which my mother was afore me." 
               "My good woman," replied David, now losing all patience, "if you were a Baptist, you could not have your children baptized; such things are not permitted in the Baptist church, and I am not going to do it, so good morning." David then went out, and was mounting his horse, when Mrs. Slatterly came flying to the door, saying, "Mister, if you wont christen the children, I reckon you may as well pay your bill, seein' yer a Baptise minister. I allus charges half price, it's seventy-five cents." "I'm not a minister at all," said David, handing ing her the money; but this was one of the women who never let any one have the last word; so she bawled after him, that she knew he was a mean, old water Baptist, and so the controversy ended. In this house a fine quarto Bible lay on the table in the parlor. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               The Back Fork of Fall River. 
               FROM this place there is a blank in my friend's journal. We next find him within sight of the Back Fork of Fall River. He describes the scene as desolate and dreary in the extreme. Tall evergreens stood in clusters around him; the broken surface of the ground, and grey hanging rocks, forming many a shadowy ravine and lonely lurking place, for the wild denizens of the forest. Winding down the steep mountain side, the tracery of a rough road was faintly visible, as it crept from height to lesser height, as though it were seeking out the most practicable way for the traveller; while far beneath him, the Back Fork rolled over its rocky bed, now hidden under overhanging trees; anon glancing out into the sunshine. David's rout lay along this road, and it was night when he reached the shore. Here there was a ferry, and two or three cabins. He selected the most respectable looking one, and asked for lodgings of a tidy looking woman, who came to the door, and who replied that she would see; then returned into the house. Presently a man appeared, who surveyed David for a moment in silence; then addressed him with, "Well, stranger, I reckon ye can stay. Light down, and come in;" which invitation was accepted with great thankfulness. The horse was given into the care of a boy, and David was ushered into the house, where a fire was blazing in the ample chimney, though it was midsummer, the mountain air being chilly. A woman was seated at a table, engaged in making bearskin caps; a younger one was preparing supper; several children, large and small, were standing around, or creeping about the floor, casting furtive glances at the stranger; and an old woman sat by the fire, knitting. When supper was over, and things had settled down into quiet, the host thought it was high time for him to know something about his guest; so he put David through the usual list of questions, asked and answered on such occasions. When his curiosity was fully gratified, he, and all the other members of the family, expressed great surprise that any one should undertake to visit the lumbermen, saying, that up there was the great resort of criminals, who had escaped from justice, and that they were a desperate set of men. David replied that this was only a greater reason why he should go. Then the old woman insisted that he should not go, declaring that a peddler went up there once before, and never returned. Upon this the host averred that the peddler had returned; that he came down on the raft; and that it was wrong to try to frighten the young man; that there was no danger after all, that was his opinion. David declared that he did not intend to be deterred from his purpose; informing them, that he was not a peddler, though he might look like one; that he carried nothing but the Bible, and other religious books, and as he was going there to do good, he did not suppose any one would molest him. The host, upon this, expressed great joy, saying, that he wanted a Bible very much, that his own was such a little one, and the print was so small that his mother could not see to read it any more, which was a great source of trouble to her. Then David displayed his books, and there was great surprise manifested among the assembled group; all wondered to see so many books. A Bible was bought for the old lady, and her joy and thankfulness was so extreme, that David said that this fact alone, more than rewarded him for all his toil. 
               The oldest boy now expressed an earnest desire to possess "Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress," but the father had shut his purse and deposited the same in the pocket of his hunting shirt. Then the mother and son held a consultation aside, which resulted in her asking David if he would trade the book for a bear skin cap; David did not care particularly for the cap, but he never made a grant of a book, unless he saw no other way of getting it into the hands of the people. So he concluded finally, to trade; then the question was, would he have a cap with the brush at the side, or with the brush at the front; or would he have one without a brash at all. David was not particular in regard to this matter; inasmuch, as he never expected to wear the cap, and only took it in the expectation that he might sell it again, and so get the price of the book. The good woman assured him, that the fashion now, was to wear the brush standing up in front. So David concluded to take that one. He then gave each of the children a picture card. When this was all done, he entered into a negotiation with the host, concerning his voyage up the river next day, and the keeping of his horse, while he should be away on that expedition. After these matters were all settled to his mind, they had prayers, and then all retired to rest. 
               Next morning early, the voyage was commenced; it proved both difficult and tedious, occupying fully half the day. David rowed alternately with the men who accompanied him, and found it very fatiguing work. He describes this as one of the most gloomy journeys he had ever undertaken. The rapid river shut in on either side by high mountains; over-hanging trees, often dipping their long branches into the water; sometimes darkness like twilight falling over them as they rowed against the current, then shooting out into the bright sunlight. 
               About noon, they reached their place of destination, which was a slope, where the mountain on the right bank of the river, retreated some three hundred yards, leaving a long, low bluff. Here the boatman left David, directing him to follow the bluff, and it would lead him to the settlement, in the course of an hour or so. Accordingly, he took up his saddle-bags, and began the ascent, following a path that led off from the river, and not feeling by any means sure that he would ever meet with any human habitation in that wild place. Around him, the timber had much of it been cut away, leaving a heavy undergrowth of laurel, scrub-oak, and hazel, mingled with vines, and creepers of immense size; among which, were the most luxuriant blackberry vines, laden with the luscious fruit. 
               All the forest sounds were hushed under the noonday heat. David, weary and discouraged, threw himself down on a mossy bank, under a spreading maple. He heard the far off song of the boatman, as they floated down the river, and he felt as though it were the last link that bound him to the living world. A golden eagle, soared screaming over his head, and perched on a cliff at the top of the opposite mountain. This was the last thing of which David was conscious, for he fell asleep. 
               When he awoke, night was falling. It was some time 'ere he recovered his scattered senses sufficiently to realize exactly where he was. A whippoor-will warbled mournfully over his head, and was answered by his mate across the river, whose sullen 
                     murmer
                     murmur
                  , mingled with all the innumerable sounds and whisperings, that waken in the forest at the close of day. He heard a fox barking in a thicket close by, and an owl hooted from the branch of a dead hemlock on the slope above. Again he set off on his lonely way up the mountain path, greatly provoked with himself for sleeping at such a time, and in such a place. He thought of Christian, who did a similar foolish thing, and fell asleep in the arbor, while on the ascent of the hill Difficulty; and though he himself had no fear of lions in his path, he thought that a panther or a wild-cat, might desire to make a supper of him, and with that intent, could readily spring on him from one of those thickets; and so he went on his solitary walk, until the last gleam of daylight faded from the mountain tops, and night closed around him. 
               But still he sped onward; the thicket was so close on each side of the path, that he had no difficulty in keeping in it. He thought he might have walked in this way for an hour, when he emerged on a cleared space; he could see by the starlight that it was an enclosed field, and his path lay along the fence, winding around two sides of the field, and turning off, up the mountain at the furthest corner. It was here very steep, and David began to grow so weary, that he was about giving up in despair, when, casting his eyes upwards, he saw that he was near the top of the ascent, as he could see the sky in that direction, the view being unobstructed by trees or bushes. He pushed on till he reached the summit, when he found himself on a broad plateau, and in sight of a little village, of perhaps a dozen cabins, whose lights gleamed out quite cheerily on the surrounding darkness. But my friend had small time to rejoice in, for he had scarcely noted this, when he found himself surrounded by a score of dogs, who he really thought would devour him bodily, so fierce were they. He had carried a stout cudgel during his lonely walk, thinking he might need it for defense; so now he set his back against a tree, and laid about him with all his might. In a short time, some of his assailants, showed by their yelping, that they were badly hurt; but this only added to the clamor. Meantime, on the first alarm, the village boys came running to the spot to see what the dogs were after. David cried to them to call off the dogs; but instead of doing this, they ran back to the nearest house, declaring, that the Devil was under the 
                     scyamore
                     sycamore
                   tree, and that they saw the horns on his head, and that fire was coming out of his eyes. This alarmed the women so much, that they shut the door, and closed the windows. By this time all the men came pouring down with their guns, knowing that the dogs never raised such an uproar for nothing. David was no coward, but now he began to feel some alarm; he knew he had hurt some of the dogs badly, perhaps killed them, and these men might be provoked to take revenge, most likely to shoot him 'ere he could make his voice heard in such a tumult. Just then he was greatly relieved, by hearing a deep voice that rose above the uproar, crying, "don't shoot; call off the dogs." This was done, and in a moment the dogs were sneaking away, as if ashamed of themselves, and David stood face to face with thirty, as fierce, wild looking men, as ever he had imagined could be found in a civilized land. The whole population had by this time hurried to the place, the women and children meantime, keeping in the back ground. 
               David had thrown down his club, when the dogs were called off, and now he stood with his arms folded, waiting to be spoken 
                     too
                     to
                  . "Here's another jail-bird broke loose and come up here to hide;" said one, "Yes, that he is," said another, "let's catch him and give him up." Upon this, the first man who had spoken, and who carried a lantern, walked up to David, and holding the light so that it fell full on his face, took a good survey of him, then he spoke, "Men, this is no jail-bird, 'll pledge my life on it." Then turning to David, he said, "Why, young man, how in the name of wonder did you ever get here at this time of night?" "I came up the river in a boat, and I walked here on my feet. To judge from the way you receive strangers, one would suppose you didn't see them often," replied David. 
                
               "Don't be saucy, boy, 'twas the dogs received you; and I see you have nearly killed some of them, and do you know it's almost as much as your life is worth?" 
               "My life is worth more to me than the life of a dog; there's not a man here, that wouldn't have done the same, and I shall endeavor to defend my life against the attacks of men, as well as dogs. I hope there is not a man here, who would waylay and kill me out of revenge for the life of his dog, and I have harmed none in Any other way. All I ask is a fair open field and a chance to defend myself." 
               "Well, you are a bold chap, any how; are ye armed?" 
               "Armed! for what? I came here on an errand of love and good will, not to fight. So if you are going to give me a place to sleep in your village, say so, if not, I can sleep in the woods." 
               "No, no" interrupted an old woman, edging her way through the men, who were scowling at David with fierce eyes, but were deterred from molesting him, by his fearless bearing. 
               "No, no, you shan't sleep in the woods; come with me, yer an honest lad, and a good, I see it in yer eye. Here Johnny," said she, to a boy who now appeared, "take the young man's saddle-bags and tote 'em home; come along, there's never a man o' them 'll tetch ye, when Mollie McCardy says, hands off." 
               Thankful for any retreat, being worn out with fatigue and excitement, David followed Mollie McCardy, whose house stood quite outside of, and beyond the village; so they had quite a long walk; Mollie grumbling all the way at the rudeness, and inhospitality of her neighbors. She told David that she would not have dared to interfere, if her husband, that was him with the lantern, had not sent Johnny to tell her to come, and take the stranger home and that her husband wielded great influence in that community. On arriving at the cabin, she hastily roused up the fire, throwing on a great quantity of dry pine wood. Making David take a seat on a settle in the corner, she looked up in his face, as she knelt before the fire, saying in tones full of compassion, "Such a bonnie lad, and they took him for the Evil one." "Why, who paid me such a compliment as that?" inquired David. "Sure it was the children; didn't they say the Devil was standing under the old sycamore tree, and that they saw the horns on his head, and the cloven foot? and it's meself that heard them, when I was down to Kitty Pegram's to take her the pythegoric, sein' she's down with the rheumatiz." "That was a slight mistake," said David, "I never was taken for the evil one before." "Yes, and bad luck to them," said Mollie, as she hung the tea kettle over the fire, and set about preparing supper for the guest, which she accomplished in an incredibly short space of time; and a very nice supper it was, consisting of cold roast chicken, corn batter cakes, fresh butter, honey, and tea; after partaking of which, David felt very much improved, and withall, in a more amiable mood; for it must be confessed, that he had been very angry, and would not have cared two straws, to have pitched into the thirty lumbermen, and all the dogs together. 
               In the meantime, Mollie's husband came in. He was in reality, an honest, intelligent Irishman; and both he and his wife had been 
                     religously
                     religiously
                   brought up, but they had forgotten much of their early training, since coming to this wild place. McCurdy was profuse in his apologies to the stranger, for the rough treatment he had received; and when he learned David's errand there, that he had come with Bibles and religious books to circulate among the people, he seemed overwhelmed with mortification. He informed David, that there were only two Bibles in the community; and one of them belonged to his wife. Mollie expressed her gratitude and joy, in the most extravagant terms, declaring that she couldn't be gladder, nor as glad, if he had brought a bag of gold to circulate among the people. Then she gave him a history of her own Bible, saying that it was many hundred years old, being an heirloom in the family; that her grandmother, who was a Cameron, had brought it from Scotland; that it used to be hid away in the hedges, and under hay-cocks, and even buried in the ground, in the days of persecutors, when it wasn't lawful to read God's word; and that her forefathers had suffered much for conscience sake. She then brought out this precious Bible from its hiding place; she was too careful of it to leave it lying about. It was, indeed, a very old Bible, and might have once belonged to Richard Cameron himself, but the title page was gone. David looked at this Bible with great reverence, and some curiosity, though he could get no clue to its actual date. He read a portion from its pages, and then prayed with the family, when they all retired to rest. 
               This house was David's home while he stayed in that place. He had a nice, comfortable room, and Mollie treated him with the tenderness and affection of a mother. 
               The day following was Saturday. By nine o'clock, the rumor had spread all through the settlement, that the stranger who had appeared among them, was a minister, and a very good man, and that he had brought Bibles for sale. The consequence was, that the men did not go to the mountains to work at all that day, but crowded to McCardy's, to see the stranger and his books. Many of them apologised for meeting him in so uncivil a manner, and seemed desirous of making amends for it, by showing every attention in their power. 
               What surprised David greatly, were two things, they could nearly all read, and they had plenty of money. Before twelve A. M., his whole stock of books was sold. Though he had not Bibles enough to supply them all, fortunately he had some small Testaments. The only trouble he had, was to prevent them from paying two or three prices for the books. 
               A meeting was appointed for the next day, in a beautiful grove above the village; and there the whole population assembled for worship on that Sabbath morning. David, before he commenced the services, assured them that he was not a minister, and that he was not going to preach; that he had come there to instruct, and to exhort them "to flee from the wrath to come." I should be glad to be able to give a synopsis of that address or sermon, or whatever it was; but on this, my friend's journal affords no light, further than that the spirit of God came down with great power, and that almost every one there was awakened to a sense of his, or her danger, as a lost sinner in the sight of God. 
               When my friend saw this awakening among a class apparently so hopelessly hardened, he concluded that truly, nothing was too hard for the grace of God; and he felt that he was more than rewarded for all his toil in getting there. All thought of work seemed to be laid aside; meetings, for prayer and instruction, were held every day and every night in some one of the cabins. Many, perhaps it would not be beyond the truth to say that all, were truly converted. My friend refers to this part of his labors and the results, in terms of rapturous thanksgiving. 
                
               He prevailed on several of the men, of whose conversion he could scarcely entertain a doubt, to lead in prayer at the meeting. And after organizing a Sabbath school, and seeing a day school in successful operation, he considered that his work there was done, and he announced his intention of leaving. The little community received this intelligence with tears; and earnest entreaties were made that he would remain with them, at least a month longer. David could not be prevailed on to stay, but he assured them, that he would do his best to send some one there soon with a supply of books. He intended to go down on the raft which was ready at this time to leave, but the people would not permit that; and four men volunteered to take him to the ferry in a boat. So when all was ready, he left amidst the prayers and benedictions of the people, who scarcely knew how to express their gratitude sufficiently. 
                
               He found his horse at the ferry, safe, and in excellent order. As he saw no way to replenish his stock, which was entirely exhausted, he concluded to return home. My friend found also, that his strength was beginning to fail, under such constant and unremitting toil; as indeed, well it might. No common measure of physical strength could have borne half so much. 
               He was not very far from home, and he considered the journey as but a trifle. But travel over those rough mountain roads is always toilsome and difficult. By the time he reached home, he was completely broken down, and was laid on a bed of sickness, which lasted six weeks. At length under the tender nursing of his good mother, backed by youth and a strong constitution, he rallied, and was at last convalescent. 
               When he became sufficiently strong to use his mind and his eyes, his mother put into his hands a letter, that had been left there sometime in the early fall. David broke the seal, and read as follows: 
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 DUNCASTLE, SEPT. 2, 18- 
                                 MY DEAR FRIEND,
                               
                              I write to inform you, that a lady, who takes a deep interest in your welfare, has forwarded to me the enclosed check of four hundred dollars. She requires me to say, that should you wish to apply this sum, as far as it will go, in defraying the expenses of your education at some school, it is at your service for that purpose. I hope you will avail yourself of this gift, in order to fit you for greater usefulness in the world. I am greatly rejoiced to hear from many sources, that the Lord is with you in your good work. It is my constant prayer, that you may become yet more successful. Please send an early reply. Should you desire any counsel or advice, in relation to your future course, I shall be happy to serve you to the best of my ability. 
                              
                                 Your Brother in Christ, 
                                 HARVEY GUY.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                  
                
               THE END. 
             
            NOTE.-A continued narration of the life and abounding labors of this "Mountain Missionary," to the period of his early decease at twenty-seven years of age, will be embraced in a "Sequel," should the demand for the present volume warrant its publication.-[PUBLISHER. 
         
       
   
